FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20080221080107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 21, 2008, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release and its accompanying financial highlights and reconciliation schedules are furnished as a part of this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The press release and accompanying financial highlights and reconciliation schedules are being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 7.01. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
     On February 21, 2008, Williams also announced that its domestic and international proved natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2007, increased to 4.3 trillion cubic feet equivalent. Williams replaced its 2007 U.S. wellhead production of 334 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe) at a rate of 232 percent. A copy of the press release announcing the same is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly
 
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
NYSE: WMB
 
          Feb. 21, 2008
Date:
 
          TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) announced 2007 unaudited net income of $990 million, or $1.63 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $309 million, or 51 cents per share on a diluted basis, for 2006.
 
          For fourth-quarter 2007, the company reported net income of $225 million, or 37 cents per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $147 million, or 24 cents per share on a diluted basis, for fourth-quarter 2006.
          Strong performances in the company's midstream, exploration & production and gas pipeline businesses were the key drivers of the increase in net income for both periods. Key factors were natural gas liquid (NGL) margins remaining at historically high levels, continued strong natural gas production growth, and the positive effect of new rates on two pipeline systems. The full-year period also benefited from the absence of $249 million of litigation related pre-tax charges recorded in second-quarter 2006.
          These benefits were partially offset in the fourth quarter by a loss, primarily mark-to-market, of approximately $166 million related to the sale of certain legacy natural gas contracts associated with the former power business.
          All prior-period amounts presented throughout this report have been recast to reflect certain components of the former Power segment as discontinued operations. Williams closed the sale of substantially all of its power assets to Bear Energy LP, a unit of The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. (NYSE: BSC), in the fourth quarter.
          Income or loss from discontinued operations includes the results of the company's portfolio of power-related contracts, including its portfolio of tolling, full-requirements and tolling-resale contracts, as well as related hedges, and the Hazleton power generation plant.
Recurring Results Adjusted for Effect of Mark-to-Market Accounting
          Williams is continuing its practice of providing an analysis of recurring earnings adjusted to remove the effect on its results of mark-to-market accounting for certain hedges and other derivatives.
          The company expects to have mark-to-market volatility in Gas Marketing Services because that segment has retained certain natural gas legacy contracts and positions from the former Power segment. The company also expects to have some mark-to-market volatility from natural gas storage and transportation hedging. Going forward, however, mark-to-market volatility is expected to be significantly reduced compared with previous levels.
          Recurring income from continuing operations after mark-to-market adjustments was $1.05 billion, or $1.73 per share, for 2007, compared with $648 million, or $1.07 per share, for 2006.
          For fourth-quarter 2007, recurring income from continuing operations after mark-to-market adjustments was $358 million, or 59 cents per share, compared with $173 million, or 28 cents per share, for the same period in 2006.
          A reconciliation of the company's income from continuing operations to recurring income from continuing operations and mark-to-market adjustments accompanies this news release.
Stock Repurchase Update
          In July 2007, Williams announced that its board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of the company's common stock. The stock-repurchase program has no expiration date.
 
          During 2007, the company purchased approximately 16 million shares for $526 million under the program at an average cost of $33.08 per share.
CEO Perspective
          "Our businesses performed at exceptional levels during 2007, delivering more than 60 percent growth in our recurring adjusted earnings per share," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We built on our strong track record of creating value for Williams' shareholders.
          "We also achieved several important milestones during the year," Malcolm said. "We divested our power business, began a stock repurchase program and returned to investment grade. We also made two additional drop-downs to our midstream master limited partnership and established a new MLP to own pipeline assets.
          "Our future is bright  Williams is well positioned to help meet the country's growing demand for cleaner burning and domestically produced energy.
          "From our large-scale E&P and midstream operations in key natural gas growth basins to our premier natural gas pipeline systems, we have the assets and capabilities to continue delivering value growth for our shareholders," Malcolm said.
Business Segment Performance
          Consolidated results include segment profit for Williams' businesses  Exploration & Production, Midstream Gas & Liquids, Gas Pipeline and Gas Marketing Services as well as results reported in the Other segment.
 
 
          For 2007, Williams' businesses reported consolidated segment profit of $2.16 billion, compared with $1.49 billion for 2006. In fourth-quarter 2007, the company reported consolidated segment profit of $539 million, compared with $375 million in the fourth quarter of 2006.
          The significant improvements in consolidated segment profit during 2007 were primarily because strong operational results in Midstream, Exploration & Production and Gas Pipeline drove higher segment profit in each respective business unit. Lower results in Gas Marketing, primarily due to a fourth-quarter loss related to the sale of certain legacy natural gas contracts, partially offset the higher segment profits in the company's other businesses.
          On a basis adjusted to remove the effect of nonrecurring items and mark-to-market accounting, Williams' recurring consolidated segment profit was approximately $2.44 billion in 2007, compared with $1.74 billion for 2006. On the same adjusted basis, recurring consolidated segment profit was $718 million in fourth-quarter 2007, compared with $393 million in fourth-quarter 2006.
Exploration & Production: Continued Strong Production Growth Drives 2007 Results
          Exploration & Production includes natural gas production and development in the U.S. Rocky Mountains, San Juan Basin and Mid-Continent, and oil and gas development in South America.
          The business reported segment profit of $756 million for 2007, an increase of 37 percent over its 2006 segment profit of $552 million. Fourth-quarter 2007 segment profit was $190 million, compared with $140 million for the same period last year.
          Strong growth in domestic natural gas production volumes and increased net realized average prices were the primary drivers of the increased segment profit in 2007. For the year, Williams' average daily domestic production increased 21 percent over 2006. For fourth-quarter 2007, the company increased its average daily domestic production 18 percent over fourth-quarter 2006.
 
          Increased development within the Piceance, Powder River, and Fort Worth basins drove the strong growth in domestic production volumes. In the Piceance Basin of western Colorado  the company's cornerstone for production and reserves growth  average daily production increased 30 percent for the year and 25 percent for the fourth quarter.
          During 2007, Williams' net realized average price for U.S. production was $5.08 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (Mcfe), which was 15 percent higher than the $4.40 per Mcfe realized in 2006.
          While Rockies market prices were 30 percent lower in 2007 compared with 2006, the company's firm transportation contracts, which allow a significant portion of its Rockies production to be sold at more advantageous market points, as well as fixed priced hedges and collars, contributed to the increase in net realized average prices. Net realized average prices include market prices, net of fuel and shrink and hedge positions, less gathering and transportation expenses.
          The benefits of higher production volumes and higher net realized average prices in 2007 were partially offset by increased depreciation, depletion and amortization, higher operating costs due to increased production volumes and higher well service and industry costs.
          In a separate announcement today, Williams reported year-end 2007 domestic proved U.S. natural gas reserves of 4.14 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe), up 12 percent from year-end 2006 reserves of 3.7 Tcfe. Including its international interests, Williams had total proved natural gas and oil reserves of 4.3 Tcfe at year-end 2007 as compared to 3.9 Tcfe at year-end 2006.
          Williams' domestic activities in 2007 resulted in a total addition of 776 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe) in net reserves. Over the past three years, Williams has added more than 1.9 Tcfe in domestic net reserves from drilling activity. For the fifth consecutive year, Williams has replaced more than 200 percent of its production, with a 232 percent reserve replacement rate in 2007.
U.S. Proved Reserves Reconciliation
Amounts in billion cubic feet equivalent of natural gas
 
          In 2007, Williams drilled 1,590 gross wells, achieving a success rate greater than 99 percent. During the year, the company continued to be an industry leader in cost performance, as its three-year domestic average finding and developing cost was $1.77 per thousand cubic feet equivalent (Mcfe) of natural gas.
          Williams' previous 2008 recurring segment profit for Exploration & Production is unchanged at $1 billion to $1.3 billion. The company is updating its capital expenditure guidance for Exploration & Production to a new range of $1.45 billion to $1.65 billion from the previous range of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion.
          For 2009, Williams expects $1.025 billion to $1.325 billion in recurring segment profit from Exploration & Production. Williams plans to invest $1.45 billion to $1.65 billion of capital in Exploration & Production in 2009.
Midstream Gas & Liquids: Record-setting Year Drives Segment Profit Up 59%, Topping $1 Billion
          Midstream, which provides natural gas gathering and processing, and NGL fractionation and storage services and olefins production, reported 2007 segment profit of $1.07 billion, compared with $675 million in 2006, an increase of 59 percent. This marks the first time Midstream has surpassed $1 billion in segment profit.
          For fourth-quarter 2007, Midstream reported segment profit of $367 million, compared with $167 million for the same period in 2006, an increase of 120 percent.
          Midstream's extraordinary growth in segment profit during 2007 is primarily due to record-level NGL margins driven by favorable market commodity pricing on NGLs and lower Rockies market natural gas prices. Higher volumes related to the February 2007 start-up of the fifth cryogenic gas processing train at the Opal, Wyo., complex also helped drive the increased segment profit.
          Higher margins in Midstream's olefins business unit driven by favorable market commodity pricing and higher volumes resulting from the acquisition of an additional interest in the Geismar plant also contributed to the growth.
          Production declines in deepwater Gulf of Mexico, which contributed to lower gathering and production fee revenues, and higher operating expenses partially offset these benefits. The 2007 results benefited from the absence of a non-recurring charge in 2006 of $73 million related to Gulf Liquids litigation.
          Williams markets NGLs via equity volumes the company retains as payment-in-kind under certain processing contracts.
          For 2007, Midstream sold 1.42 billion gallons of NGL equity volumes, compared to 1.36 billion gallons sold during 2006.
          Higher NGL sales volumes in the West, due to the new processing train at the Opal plant, drove the increase in equity sales volumes for the year. Declining producers' volumes in the Gulf Coast region partially offset the higher volumes in the West.
          For 2008, Williams is increasing Midstream's recurring segment profit guidance to a range of $700 million to $950 million, up from previous guidance of $575 million to $850 million. The increase reflects higher expected NGL margins.
 
          Williams is also increasing Midstream's capital expenditure guidance for 2008. The company now expects $700 million to $750 million in capital expenditures as certain previously projected expenditures in 2007 are now expected in 2008.
          For 2009, Williams' recurring segment profit guidance for Midstream is $850 million to $1.15 billion. The capital expenditure guidance for Midstream in 2009 is $450 million to $500 million.
Gas Pipeline: New Rates Drive 44 Percent Increase in Segment Profit for 2007
          Gas Pipeline, which primarily delivers natural gas to markets along the Eastern Seaboard, in Florida and in the Northwest, reported 2007 segment profit of $673 million, compared with $467 million for 2006, an increase of 44 percent.
          For fourth-quarter 2007, Gas Pipeline's segment profit increased 58 percent to $160 million, compared with $101 million for the same period in 2006.
          Increased revenues from new rates on both the Northwest Pipeline and Transco systems and increased earnings from the company's 50 percent interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System were the primary drivers of the segment profit increases during 2007. Higher depreciation expenses and operating costs partially offset these benefits.
          The full-year 2007 results include the benefit of a non-recurring $17 million reduction to a regulatory liability and non-recurring income of $18 million associated with payments received for a terminated firm transportation agreement on the Grays Harbor lateral.
          Northwest Pipeline's new, higher rates went into effect, subject to refund, on Jan. 1, 2007. On March 30, 2007, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved the stipulation and settlement agreement on its rate case.
          Transco's new, higher rates went into effect, subject to refund, on March 1, 2007. On Nov. 28, 2007, Transco filed a formal stipulation and agreement with the FERC resolving all substantive issues in its rate case. The company is awaiting final FERC approval.
          The company is increasing its 2008 recurring segment profit guidance for Gas Pipeline to a range of $640 million to $690 million. The previous range was $625 million to $675 million. Capital expenditure guidance for 2008 is unchanged at $360 million to $495 million.
          For 2009, the company's guidance for recurring segment profit is $640 million to $690 million and its guidance for capital spending is $340 million to $490 million.
Gas Marketing Services: Supporting Natural Gas Businesses with Marketing, Risk Management
          Gas Marketing Services is responsible for supporting Williams' natural gas businesses by providing marketing and risk management services. These services primarily include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration & Production, and procuring fuel and shrink gas and hedging natural gas liquids for Midstream.
 
          In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural-gas related contracts, such as transportation, storage, and related hedges, and provides marketing services to third-parties, such as producers. The segment also manages certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions that previously were reported in the former power business.
          Gas Marketing reported a 2007 segment loss of $337 million, compared with a loss of $195 million in 2006. For fourth-quarter 2007, Gas Marketing reported a segment loss of $177 million, compared with a loss of $30 million in the 2006 period.
          The lower results in 2007 were primarily due to a fourth-quarter loss, primarily mark-to-market, of approximately $166 million related to the sale of certain legacy natural gas contracts.
          The company intends to liquidate a substantial portion of the remaining legacy contracts. Until they are liquidated, Gas Marketing's earnings may continue to reflect mark-to-market volatility. The company also expects to have some mark-to-market volatility from natural gas storage and transportation hedging. Going forward, however, mark-to-market volatility is expected to be significantly reduced compared with previous levels.
 
          On a recurring basis adjusted to remove the effect of mark-to-market accounting, Gas Marketing had a segment loss of $29 million in 2007, compared with a loss of $18 million in 2006. On the same adjusted basis, recurring segment loss was $9 million in fourth-quarter 2007, compared with $14 million in fourth-quarter 2006.
          Williams is adjusting its guidance for Gas Marketing in 2008. The company now expects Gas Marketing's recurring segment results, adjusted for the effect of mark-to-market accounting and exclusive of the effect of any gain or loss on the liquidation of legacy positions, to range from a loss of $20 million to breakeven. Previous guidance was a loss of $30 million to breakeven.
          For 2009, Williams' guidance for recurring segment results, adjusted for the effect of mark-to-market accounting and exclusive of the effect of any gain or loss on the liquidation of legacy positions, is a range from a loss of $25 million to breakeven.
Guidance Increased for 2008, Steady Growth Forecast for 2009
          Guidance for consolidated segment profit includes results for Exploration & Production, Midstream and Gas Pipeline, as well as Gas Marketing and the Other segment. All consolidated segment profit and earnings per share ranges are presented on a recurring basis adjusted for the effect of mark-to-market accounting.
 
          For 2008, Williams has increased its consolidated segment profit guidance to a range of $2.4 billion to $2.9 billion and earnings per share of $1.60 to $2.00. The previous ranges were $2.25 billion to $2.755 billion in consolidated segment profit and earnings per share of $1.50 to $1.90.
          The new ranges for 2008 reflect the previously referenced increases in Midstream and Gas Pipeline.
          The 2008 ranges assume unhedged natural gas prices ranging from $7.05 to $8.35 per Mcfe (Henry Hub), adjusted for basis differentials, NGL margins consistent with an oil-to-gas price ratio of 8.5 to 9.6 (West Texas Intermediate crude to Henry Hub gas), and an assumption for crude oil pricing in the range of $60 to $80 per barrel.
          For 2008, Williams has also increased its capital expenditure guidance to a range of $2.575 billion to $2.925 billion from the previous range of $2.475 billion to $2.825 billion. The updated range reflects the previously referenced increases in Midstream and Exploration & Production.
          For its 2009 guidance, Williams expects consolidated segment profit of $2.5 billion to $3.1 billion and earnings per share of $1.70 to $2.20. The company expects total capital expenditures in 2009 of $2.25 billion to $2.650 billion.
          The primary factors in the steady growth forecast for 2009 are increased natural gas production in the exploration & production business, as well as the benefit of new projects in the midstream business and gas pipeline expansion projects. Lower net realized average natural gas prices, due primarily to legacy hedges, are expected to partially offset these benefits.
          The 2009 ranges assume unhedged natural gas prices ranging from $7.05 to $8.35 per Mcfe (Henry Hub), adjusted for basis differentials, NGL margins consistent with an oil-to-gas price ratio of 9.2 to 10.2 (West Texas Intermediate crude to Henry Hub gas), and an assumption for crude oil pricing in the range of $65 to $85 per barrel.
Today's Analyst Call
          Williams' management will discuss the company's 2007 financial results and outlook through 2009 during an analyst presentation to be webcast live beginning at 10 a.m. Eastern today.
          Participants are encouraged to access the presentation and corresponding slides via www.williams.com.
          A limited number of phone lines also will be available at (877) 741-4244. International callers should dial (719) 325-4820. Callers should dial in at least 10 minutes prior to the start of the discussion.
          Replays of the webcast, in both streaming and podcast forms, will be available for two weeks at following the event.
www.williams.com
Form 10-K
          The company expects to file its Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the week of Feb. 25. The document will be available on both the SEC and Williams websites.
 
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Williams' reports, filings, and other public announcements might contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words, such as "anticipate," believe," "could," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "may," "plan," "potential," "project," "schedule," "will," and other similar words. These statements are based on our intentions, beliefs, and assumptions about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such statements, other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. Those factors include, among others: changes in general economic conditions and changes in the industries in which Williams conducts business; changes in federal or state laws and regulations to which Williams is subject, including tax, environmental and employment laws and regulations; the cost and outcomes of legal and administrative claims proceedings, investigations, or inquiries; the results of financing efforts, including our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including our credit ratings and general economic conditions; the level of creditworthiness of counterparties to our transactions; the amount of collateral required to be posted from time to time in our transactions; the effect of changes in accounting policies; the ability to control costs; the ability of each business unit to successfully implement key systems, such as order entry systems and service delivery systems; the impact of future federal and state regulations of business activities, including allowed rates of return, the pace of deregulation in retail natural gas market, and the resolution of other regulatory matters; changes in environmental and other laws and regulations to which Williams and its subsidiaries are subject or other external factors over which we have no control; changes in foreign economies, currencies, laws and regulations, and political climates, especially in Canada, Argentina, Brazil, and Venezuela, where Williams has direct investments; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates; the weather and other natural phenomena; the ability of Williams to develop or access expanded markets and product offerings as well as their ability to maintain existing markets; the ability of Williams and its subsidiaries to obtain governmental and regulatory approval of various expansion projects; future utilization of pipeline capacity, which can depend on energy prices, competition from other pipelines and alternative fuels, the general level of natural gas and petroleum product demand, decisions by customers not to renew expiring natural gas transportation contracts; the accuracy of estimated hydrocarbon reserves and seismic data; and global and domestic economic repercussions from terrorist activities and the government's response to such terrorist activities. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time that we have described. We undertake no
 
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
In regard to the company's reserves in Exploration & Production, the SEC permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves. We have used certain terms in this news release, such as "probable" reserves and "possible" reserves and "new opportunities potential" reserves that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. The SEC defines proved reserves as estimated quantities that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known reservoirs under the assumed economic conditions. Probable and possible reserves are estimates of potential reserves that are made using accepted geological and engineering analytical techniques, but which are estimated with reduced levels of certainty than for proved reserves. Possible reserve estimates are less certain than those for probable reserves. New opportunities potential is an estimate of reserves for new areas for which we do not have sufficient information to date to raise the reserves to either the probable category or the possible category. New opportunities potential estimates are even less certain that those for possible reserves.
Reference to "total resource portfolio" include proved, probable and possible reserves as well as new opportunities potential.
.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Feb. 28, 2007, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at
www.williams.com
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations to Recurring Earnings
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Consolidated Statement of Income
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Segment Profit to Recurring Segment Profit
 
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Gas Pipeline
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Midstream Gas & Liquids
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Gas Marketing Services
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Capital Expenditures and Investments
 
(UNAUDITED)
Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization and Other Selected Financial Data
 
Adjustments have been made to reverse estimated forward unrealized MTM gains/losses and add estimated realized gains/losses from MTM previously recognized, i.e. assumes MTM accounting had never been applied to designated hedges and other derivatives.
Some annual figures may differ from sum of quarterly figures due to rounding.
 
Non-GAAP Utility Statement:
     This press release includes certain financial measures, EBITDA, recurring earnings, operating free cash flow and recurring segment profit, that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. EBITDA represents the sum of net income (loss), net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, less income (loss) from discontinued operations. Operating free cash flow is defined as cash flow from continuing operations less capital expenditures before dividends or principal payments. Recurring earnings exclude items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations. Recurring earnings and recurring segment profit provide investors meaningful insight into the Company's results from ongoing operations. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare company performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the Company's assets and the cash that the business is generating. Neither EBITDA nor recurring earnings, operating free cash flow and recurring segment profit are intended to represent cash flows for the period, nor are they presented as an alternative to net income or cash flow from operations. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
     Certain financial information in this press release is also shown including Gas Marketing Services mark-to-market adjustments. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses the mark-to-market adjustments to better reflect Gas Marketing's results on a basis that is more consistent with Gas Marketing's portfolio cash flows and to aid investor understanding. The adjustments reverse forward unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses from derivatives and add realized gains or losses from derivatives for which mark-to-market income has been previously recognized, with the effect that the resulting adjusted segment profit is presented as if mark-to-market accounting had never been applied to designated hedges or other derivatives. The measure is limited by the fact that it does not reflect potential unrealized future losses or gains on derivative contracts. However, management compensates for this limitation since derivative assets and liabilities do reflect unrealized gains and losses of derivative contracts. Overall, management believes the mark-to-market adjustments provide an alternative measure that more closely matches realized cash flows for the Gas Marketing segment but does not substitute for actual cash flows. We also apply the mark-to-market adjustment and the recurring adjustments to present a measure referred to as recurring income from continuing operations after mark-to-market adjustments.

 
NYSE: WMB
 
Feb. 21, 2008
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) announced today that its domestic and international proved natural gas and oil reserves as of Dec. 31, 2007, increased to approximately 4.3 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe).
     Reserves in the United States increased 12 percent to approximately 4.14 Tcfe, compared with approximately 3.7 Tcfe a year earlier. More than 99 percent of Williams' U.S. proved reserves are natural gas.
     Williams attributed the majority of its U.S. reserves additions to the rapid development of its drilling inventory, particularly in Colorado and Wyoming.
     In 2007, Williams had a drilling success rate of approximately 99 percent. The company participated in 1,590 gross wells in the U.S., of which 1,581 were successful.
     Williams' development activities in 2007 resulted in a total net addition of 776 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe) in net reserves. Williams added a total of 597 Bcfe in net reserves in 2006 and a total of 620 Bcfe in net reserves in 2005. The company's three-year average U.S. finding and developing cost was $1.77 per thousand cubic feet equivalent (Mcfe).
     For the fifth consecutive year, Williams replaced more than 200 percent of its production. In 2007, Williams replaced its U.S. wellhead production of 334 Bcfe at a rate of 232 percent. A reserves reconciliation follows the main text in this news release.
     "Our drilling and production success is driven by a determination to do things the right way," said Ralph Hill, president of Williams' exploration and production business.
     "All across our operations, from Burleson, Texas, to Buffalo, Wyo., we're focused on safety, stewardship and increasing the nation's supply of clean-burning natural gas.
     "I'm so impressed with the tools our people bring to the table when it comes to using their talent and the new technology that's available to responsibly develop Williams' world-class reserves," Hill added.
     Over the past five years, Williams has now participated in the development of more than 7,000 new natural gas wells in the U.S., helping increase the company's total proved reserves by more than 50 percent from 2003 to 2007.
     International reserves were approximately 26 million barrels of oil equivalent at year-end 2007, compared with approximately 27 million barrels of oil equivalent in 2006.
 
     Fifty-eight percent of Williams' international proved reserves are crude oil and liquids. The remainder is natural gas. Williams' international reserves are located in Argentina.
     Average daily production from domestic and international interests was approximately 960 million cubic feet of gas equivalent (MMcfe) in 2007, an increase of approximately 20 percent compared with 803 MMcfe for the same period in 2006.
     Production solely from interests in the United States increased 21 percent to 913 MMcfe per day, compared with 752 MMcfe per day in 2006.
     Williams also achieved a major production milestone in late 2007. Average daily production from domestic and international interests during the fourth quarter topped 1 Bcfe per day for the first time in Williams' history. One billion cubic feet of production represents enough natural gas to meet the daily energy needs of more than 4 million homes.
     Williams' exploration and production business primarily develops natural gas reserves in the Piceance, Powder River, San Juan, Fort Worth and Arkoma basins in the U.S.
     Approximately 98 percent of Williams' year-end 2007 U.S. proved reserves estimates were audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., who in their judgment determined the estimates to be reasonable in the aggregate for each basin.
     Reserves estimates related to properties underlying the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust (NYSE:WTU), were prepared by Miller and Lents, LTD. These properties comprise another 2 percent of Williams' total U.S. proved reserves.
     Proved reserves estimates for Argentine properties were prepared by Ryder Scott Company.
     The U.S. reserve replacement rate of 232 percent was calculated by dividing the sum of changes (acquisitions, divestitures, additions and revisions) to the estimated proved reserves during 2007 by Williams' 2007 production of 334 Bcfe.
     The three-year average U.S. finding and development cost of $1.77 per Mcfe was calculated by dividing total capital and exploration costs by the change in proved reserves balances over the three-year period, adding back production sold.
     For purposes of converting volumes of crude oil and liquids reserves to a natural-gas-equivalent measure in this report, the company used a ratio of one barrel to 6,000 cubic feet.
     Proved reserves are estimated quantities that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known reservoirs under assumed economic conditions.
 
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


