FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20080220125236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 14 2008, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") announced that Ms. Robyn L. Ewing will be promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer effective April 1, 2008. Ms. Ewing, 52, has been with Williams for 27 years and has served as vice president of human resources since May 2004. Between November 2001 and May 2004, Ms. Ewing served as vice president of human resources - business partners. A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Ewing's promotion is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
a) None b) None c) None d) Exhibits Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated February 14, 2008, announcing the promotion of Ms. Robyn L. Ewing.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

TULSA, Oklahoma  Williams (NYSE:WMB) today announced that Robyn Ewing will become the company's chief administrative officer. Her area of responsibility will include human resources, information technology and certain other enterprise support functions.
Ewing, who currently serves as vice president of human resources, will succeed Michael Johnson. The company last month announced that Johnson, 60, will retire on March 31 from his position as chief administrative officer. Ewing will assume her new role on April 1.
"Robyn brings to this role demonstrated leadership capabilities and long experience running Williams' high-performing Human Resources function," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "I have the utmost confidence that she is a great fit for her new role and will serve Williams well as part of our executive leadership team."
Ewing began her Williams career 27 years ago at MAPCO, a company that became part of Williams via a merger in 1998. Since the time of that merger, she has served Williams in officer-level human resources positions. She began her career in 1977 as a programmer for Cities Service Gas Company.
Ewing, 52, is a 1976 graduate of the University of Tulsa, where she earned a bachelor's degree in accounting with an emphasis in management information systems. She has completed executive programs at the Center for Creative Leadership and Wharton Business School.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas.  Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


