FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20080122095110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 15, 2008, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") announced that Mr. Michael P. Johnson will be retiring as Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer effective March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Johnson's retirement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
a) None b) None c) None d) Exhibits Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated January 15, 2008, announcing the retirement of Mr. Michael P. Johnson.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) today announced that its chief administrative officer Michael Johnson, 60, plans to retire on March 31.
Johnson's area of responsibility includes information technology, human resources and certain other enterprise support functions. He also serves as chairman of the Williams Foundation.
He will provide the company with consulting services through year-end to assist in the transition. Johnson has served as a senior vice president of Williams since 1999, a year after he joined the company as vice president of human resources.
"Mike has accomplished a great deal during his tenure at Williams. He championed a huge change in how our internal support functions deliver services to our business units and employees," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Those functions today are streamlined and operating at a strategic level in support of our businesses.
"Part of Mike's legacy at Williams is an employee and leadership performance-management and accountability process that values doing things the right way as much as getting the right results," Malcolm said. "That focus has contributed to Williams' remarkable performance during both some very challenging times in the past and the growth and prosperity we are achieving today."
The company is evaluating a number of alternatives for handling Johnson's current responsibilities after his retirement.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas.  Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


