FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20090811144100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On August 10, 2009, The Williams Companies, Inc. and Dominion announced their intention to form a joint venture to market and develop a new pipeline to transport up to 1 billion cubic feet per day (Bcfd) of natural gas produced in the Rockies and Appalachian basins (including the southern Marcellus Shale) to growing markets in the Eastern and Mid-Atlantic regions. A copy of the press release announcing this is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) None (b) None (c) None (d) Exhibits Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated August 10, 2009.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
(Williams logo) (Dominion logo)
August 10, 2009
Date:
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) and Dominion (NYSE: D) today announced their intention to form a joint venture to market and develop a new pipeline to transport up to 1 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas produced in the Rockies and Appalachian basins (including the southern Marcellus Shale) to growing markets in the Eastern and Mid-Atlantic regions.
The proposal, to be known as the Keystone Connector, would extend from the terminus of the Rockies Express pipeline in eastern Ohio to Williams' Transco Station 195 in southeastern Pennsylvania.  Williams and Dominion will be working with potential shippers to determine the level of interest in the proposal.
"Williams and Dominion are uniquely positioned to offer producers year-round access to growing East Coast markets while providing market area customers increased domestic supply alternatives," the project sponsors said in a statement. 
During the past two years, Williams, through its Rockies Connector project, and Dominion, through its Keystone project, have worked independently on pipeline proposals designed to link Rockies and growing Marcellus shale gas supplies with markets in the Northeast.  The new jointly developed Keystone proposal combines that experience, leveraging the sponsors' strategic assets in the region to create a logical gateway connecting emerging supplies with growing markets.
Dominion is a major producer of Appalachian natural gas and operates a natural gas transportation and storage system in the heart of the Marcellus Shale production area.  Similarly, Williams produces, gathers and processes natural gas in the Rockies, Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale, as well as other basins. It also operates the Transco pipeline, which serves major markets in the Northeast.
Under the proposal, the project sponsors would aim to place the 240-mile pipeline into service by 2013.
For additional information, contact Jim Moore at Transco (713/215-3081) or Jeff Keister at Dominion (804/771-4459).
About Dominion (NYSE: D)
Dominion is one of the nation's largest producers and transporters of energy, with 1.2 trillion cubic feet equivalent of proved natural gas reserves and 14,000 miles of natural gas transmission, gathering and storage pipeline. Dominion operates the nation's largest natural gas storage system with 975 billion cubic feet of storage capacity. For more information about Dominion, visit the company's site at www.dom.com.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas.  Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


