FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20090430073236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 30, 2009, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release and its accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
Item 7.01. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
     On April 29, 2009, the Company announced that it plans to report non-cash charges to net income attributable to the Company of approximately $241 million in the first-quarter of 2009 related to its operations in Venezuela. A copy of the press release announcing this is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
Item 9.01. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) None
     (b) None
     (c) None
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
NYSE: WMB
 
April 30, 2009
Date:   
 
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) announced an unaudited net loss attributable to Williams, for first-quarter 2009 of $172 million, or $0.30 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $500 million, or $0.84 per share on a diluted basis for first-quarter 2008.
     The drivers of the first-quarter loss attributable to Williams were non-cash charges of approximately $241 million related to the company's operations and investments in Venezuela. These charges were detailed in the company's April 29 news release on the topic.
     Lower energy commodity prices in first-quarter 2009 impacted results in Exploration & Production and Midstream, as both businesses' results were significantly lower than first-quarter 2008. The company also recorded $34 million in expenses associated with the early termination of rig contracts in the first quarter. There is more detail on each business in their respective sections of this news release.
 
Williams (NYSE: WMB) First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results  April 30, 2009                    Page 1 of 9
 
     Other factors that contributed to the lower first-quarter 2009 results were the absence of a $118 million pre-tax gain on the sale of certain international interests in first-quarter 2008, as well as higher income from discontinued operations in the 2008 period.
     Gas Pipeline's results, as expected, were steady despite the much lower commodity prices. Other factors that served to mitigate the effect of falling commodity prices include higher natural gas production; Exploration & Production's hedge positions, which cover a significant portion of its production; and fee-based revenues from certain of Midstream's gathering and processing services.
Recurring Results Adjusted for Effect of Mark-to-Market Accounting
     Recurring income from continuing operations, after adjustments to remove the effect of mark-to-market accounting for certain hedges and other derivatives in Gas Marketing Services, was $128 million, or $0.22 per share for first-quarter 2009. On the same adjusted basis, recurring income from continuing operations was $341 million, or $0.57 per share, for first-quarter 2008.
     The lower recurring adjusted results were due primarily to dramatically lower energy commodity prices in first-quarter 2009, compared with the relatively high prices during first-quarter 2008. The lower prices contributed to lower recurring results in the exploration and production and midstream businesses.
     The steady results in Gas Pipeline, as well as Exploration & Production's hedge positions and fee-based revenues in Midstream, partially offset some of negative effect of the lower commodity prices.
     A reconciliation of the company's income from continuing operations to recurring income from continuing operations and mark-to-market adjustments is available at www.williams.com and as an attachment to this news release.
2009 Updated Guidance
     Williams has updated its outlook for commodity price assumptions and its earnings, cash flow and capital expenditure outlook for 2009. The table below illustrates the company's current expectation for energy commodity prices and the corresponding effect on its results. Presented for comparison are the company's previous expectations as of Feb. 19 when it reported year-end 2008 results.
Williams (NYSE: WMB) First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results  April 30, 2009                    Page 2 of 9
 
 
     Guidance for consolidated segment profit includes results for Exploration & Production, Midstream and Gas Pipeline, as well as Gas Marketing and the Other segment. All consolidated segment profit and earnings per share ranges are presented on a recurring basis adjusted to remove the effect of mark-to-market accounting.
     For 2009, Williams has lowered its consolidated segment profit guidance to a range of $1,325 million to $1,850 million and earnings per share of $0.55 to $0.95. The previous ranges were $1,350 million to $1,925 million and earnings per share of $0.60 to $1.10. The updated expectations for 2009 reflect lower expected net realized average prices on the company's natural gas production, the expected absence of segment profit from the Venezuela operations, the previously announced increased support for Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), and higher interest expense.
     Williams is increasing its previous capital expenditure guidance for 2009 by $100 million. The new range is $2,250 million to $2,550 million. The previous range was $2,150 million to $2,450 million. The increase in the company's total capital spending guidance for 2009 primarily reflects the company's previously announced agreement to purchase a 51-percent ownership interest in a newly formed midstream joint venture with Atlas Pipeline Partners L.P. (NYSE: APL).
CEO Perspective
     "First-quarter 2009 presented a dramatically different economic and energy commodity environment than first-quarter 2008," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "While this year's earnings were much lower compared with last year's robust results, we are continuing to execute our 2009 priorities in a very tough environment.
     "We are maintaining our strong balance sheet and liquidity  which totaled more than $3 billion at the end of the quarter  and we continue to drive down operating costs through rigorous execution and discipline," Malcolm said.
Williams (NYSE: WMB) First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results  April 30, 2009                    Page 3 of 9
 
     "We also are employing a flexible capital spending plan. While it is significantly reduced from '08 levels, we can still seize compelling and disciplined growth opportunities, such as our midstream joint venture in the Marcellus Shale and the new NGL pipeline in Canada."
Business Segment Performance
 
Exploration & Production
     Exploration & Production includes natural gas production and development in the U.S. Rocky Mountains, San Juan Basin and Mid-Continent, and oil and gas development in South America.
     The business reported segment profit of $78 million for first-quarter 2009, compared with segment profit of $430 million in first-quarter 2008. The prior period includes a $118 million pre-tax gain on the sale of certain international interests.
     The significant decline in segment profit during the first quarter was due to much lower net realized average prices for natural gas. Higher depletion, depreciation and amortization expenses based on a higher level of production volumes and increased capital costs also impacted the first-quarter segment profit. The company also recorded the previously referenced $34 million in expenses associated with the early termination of rig
Williams (NYSE: WMB) First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results  April 30, 2009                    Page 4 of 9
 
contracts in the first quarter. These termination expenses were a result of reductions in 2009 drilling activities in the Piceance basin.
     Higher natural gas production partially offset these negative impacts in the first quarter. Although natural gas production grew significantly from first-quarter 2008 to first-quarter 2009, production is expected to decline somewhat throughout 2009 because of the company's reduced rig count.
     During first-quarter 2009, Williams' net realized average price for U.S. production was $4.21 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (Mcfe), which was 36 percent lower than the $6.58 per Mcfe realized in first-quarter 2008.
Midstream Gas & Liquids
     Midstream provides natural gas gathering and processing, deepwater production handling and oil transportation, natural gas liquids (NGL) fractionation and storage services and olefins production.
     The business reported a segment loss of $291 million for first-quarter 2009, compared with segment profit of $261 million for first-quarter 2008.
     The significant decline in segment profit for the year is primarily because of the non-cash charges related to the company's Venezuela assets. As noted earlier, these charges were fully detailed in the company's April 29 news release on the subject.
     Midstream's recurring segment profit for first-quarter 2009 was $81 million, compared with $261 million on a recurring basis in first-quarter 2008.
     The decline on a recurring basis was primarily due to significantly lower NGL margins. Although decreases in gas prices and lower NGL transportation costs on Overland Pass Pipeline partially mitigated the unfavorable impact of lower NGL prices, per-unit margins were 69 percent lower and overall NGL margins were $138 million lower.
     The Venezuela operating results also contributed to the decline in recurring segment profit in the first quarter, as the 2008 period included $26 million related to those operations. Beginning in 2009, the company ceased recognizing Venezuela-related revenue and began reporting the results of its Venezuela operations as non-recurring.
     NGL equity volumes sold in first-quarter 2009 were slightly lower at 292 million gallons compared with 308 million gallons in the same period in 2008. NGL volumes were unfavorably impacted in the first-quarter
 
Williams (NYSE: WMB) First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results  April 30, 2009                    Page 5 of 9
 
2008 primarily due to an increase in inventory as the company transitioned from selling at the plant to shipping volumes through a third-party pipeline for sale downstream.
     During first-quarter 2009, volumes were unfavorably impacted primarily due to periods of reduced NGL recoveries, primarily in the Gulf Coast region. The reduced NGL recoveries were due to unfavorable NGL economics. Also, certain gas processing agreements converted from keep-whole to fee-based, which further reduced equity volumes during the quarter.
Gas Pipeline
     Gas Pipeline, which primarily delivers natural gas to markets along the Eastern Seaboard, in Florida and in the Pacific Northwest, reported first-quarter 2009 segment profit of $179 million, compared with $180 million for first-quarter 2008.
     During first-quarter 2009, Gas Pipeline had increased revenues from the Sentinel expansion, which was placed in service in December 2008, and Transco's Park and Loan service. The business also had lower project development costs and increased earnings from the company's 50-percent interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas Systems LLC.
     These increases were offset by higher operating costs, resulting primarily from higher depreciation, operational and maintenance, and pension expenses.
Gas Marketing Services
     Gas Marketing Services is responsible for supporting Williams' natural gas businesses by providing marketing and risk management services. These services primarily include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration & Production, and procuring fuel and shrink gas and hedging NGLs for Midstream.
     In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural-gas related contracts, such as transportation, storage, and related hedges. It also provides marketing services to third-party customers and suppliers. The segment also manages certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions that previously were reported in the former power business, which have been reduced to a minimal level.
 
Williams (NYSE: WMB) First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results  April 30, 2009                    Page 6 of 9
 
     The increase in Gas Marketing's recurring segment profit after mark-to-market adjustments was primarily the result of a $7 million increase in realized gains associated with risk management activities on contracted storage and a $13 million decrease in realized losses associated with certain proprietary and legacy positions.
     These gains were offset by a $7 million write down of storage inventory to market prices at March 31, 2009.
     Although not significant for the first-quarter 2009 results, the company expects in the future to have some level of mark-to-market volatility in Gas Marketing Services, primarily from natural gas storage hedging.
Williams' Liquidity, Financial Strength Remain Strong
     As of April 28, 2009, Williams had approximately $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents, which included approximately $1.2 billion in available U.S. unrestricted cash. The company also had approximately $1.8 billion of available credit capacity under the company's credit facilities, excluding $500 million in credit facilities that expire in 2009. On that same basis, Williams' total liquidity as of April 28 was in excess of $3.0 billion.
     Williams has no significant debt maturities until 2011 and the company's $1.43 billion primary credit facility does not expire until May 2012. Williams is rated investment grade by three of the major rating agencies.
Company to Host Analyst Meeting in New York City
     Williams will host an analyst meeting in New York City on Tuesday, May 12. During the meeting, the company's senior management will present highlights and an overview of Williams and the master limited partnerships Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ) and Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (NYSE: WMZ).
     The meeting will begin at 8:30 a.m. EDT. The morning session will focus on Williams, while the afternoon session will focus on the two MLPs.
     Both sessions will be broadcast live via webcast. Participants are encouraged to access the webcast at www.williams.com, www.williamslp.com, or www.williamspipelinepartners.com. Slides will be available the morning of May 12 on all three web sites for viewing, downloading and printing.
     A replay of the analyst meeting webcast will be available for two weeks following the event at the web sites listed above.
Today's Analyst Call
     Management will discuss the first-quarter 2009 results and outlook for 2009 during a live webcast beginning at 9:30 a.m. EDT today. Participants are encouraged to access the webcast and corresponding slides for viewing, downloading and printing at www.williams.com.
 
Williams (NYSE: WMB) First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results  April 30, 2009                    Page 7 of 9
 
     A limited number of phone lines also will be available at (877) 548-7911. International callers should dial (719) 325-4928. Replays of the first-quarter webcast, in both streaming and downloadable podcast formats, will be available for two weeks at www.williams.com following the event.
Form 10-Q
     The company plans to file its Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission today. The document will be available on both the SEC and Williams websites.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
     Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at http://www.williams.com. Go to http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0 to join our e-mail list.
     Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words, such as "anticipate," believe," "could," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "may," "plan," "potential," "project," "schedule," "will," and other similar words. These statements are based on our present intentions and our assumptions about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors. In addition to any assumptions, risks, uncertainties or other factors referred to specifically in connection with such statements, other factors not specifically referenced could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. Those factors include, among others:
 
Williams (NYSE: WMB) First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results  April 30, 2009                    Page 8 of 9
 
     Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We disclaim any obligation to and do not intend to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements or changes to our intentions, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Williams (NYSE: WMB) First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results  April 30, 2009                    Page 9 of 9
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. to Recurring Earnings
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Segment Profit (Loss) to Recurring Segment Profit (Loss)
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Exploration & Production
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Gas Pipeline
 
(UNAUDITED)
Midstream Gas & Liquids
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Gas Marketing Services
 
(UNAUDITED)
Capital Expenditures and Investments
 
(UNAUDITED)
Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization and Other Selected Financial Data
 
Adjustment to remove MTM effect
Dollars in millions except for per share amounts
 
Note: all amounts attributable to Williams Adjustments have been made to reverse estimated forward unrealized MTM gains/losses and add estimated realized gains/losses from MTM previously recognized, i.e. assumes MTM accounting had never been applied to designated hedges and other derivatives.
 
Non-GAAP Measures:
     This press release includes certain financial measures, recurring earnings and recurring segment profit that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Recurring earnings exclude items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations. Recurring earnings and recurring segment profit provide investors meaningful insight into the company's results from ongoing operations. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare a company's performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the company. Neither recurring earnings nor recurring segment profit are intended to represent an alternative to net income or segment profit. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
     Certain financial information in this press release is also shown including Gas Marketing Services mark-to-market adjustments. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses the mark-to-market adjustments to better reflect Gas Marketing's results on a basis that is more consistent with Gas Marketing's portfolio cash flows and to aid investor understanding. The adjustments reverse forward unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses from derivatives and add realized gains or losses from derivatives for which mark-to-market income has been previously recognized, with the effect that the resulting adjusted segment profit is presented as if mark-to-market accounting had never been applied to Gas Marketing Services' derivatives. The measure is limited by the fact that it does not reflect potential unrealized future losses or gains on derivative contracts. However, management compensates for this limitation since derivative assets and liabilities do reflect unrealized gains and losses of derivative contracts. Overall, management believes the mark-to-market adjustments provide an alternative measure that more closely matches realized cash flows for the Gas Marketing segment but does not substitute for actual cash flows. We also apply the mark-to-market adjustment and the recurring adjustments to present a measure referred to as recurring income from continuing operations after mark-to-market adjustments.

Exhibit 99.2
NYSE: WMB
 
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced today that it plans to report non-cash charges to net income attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc., of approximately $241 million in first-quarter 2009 related to its operations and investments in Venezuela.
     Based on its current assessment of the situation detailed below, Williams is recording a reserve for uncollectible accounts receivable and impairing the associated long-lived assets and equity and cost-based investments to an estimate of their fair value. Williams will report a net loss in the first quarter as a result of the charges.
     In Venezuela, Williams' midstream business has investments in and operates entities that provide services to Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA) under long-term agreements. Services include medium-pressure compression, high-pressure gas injection, gas liquids extraction, and gas liquids fractionation. The company's exploration and production business also owns a minority interest in an oil and gas operation which is majority-owned by a Venezuelan government-owned entity.
     In its 2008 Form 10-K, filed Feb. 25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company described the uncertainty of collecting its Venezuela receivables because PDVSA had ceased its regular payments to many service providers, including Williams, in late 2008. At the time of its Form 10-K filing, Williams expected that the amounts would ultimately be paid.
     Because of continued non-payment by PDVSA and other current circumstances, Williams now believes that it is probable that PDVSA will not pay amounts owed, and that the company's associated long-lived assets are impaired. The company has issued notices of default to PDVSA, and continues to operate the assets. In the event that PDVSA does not cure the defaults and does not comply with its contractual obligations to purchase the related assets, Williams will pursue all rights available to it under its agreements, including international arbitration.
     As a result of ceasing revenue recognition for the assets, Williams expects a loss of earnings from its Venezuela operations to reduce its full-year 2009 recurring results by approximately $0.04 per share.
     After the adjustments and as of March 31, Williams' carrying value associated with its Venezuela operations is primarily comprised of $67 million of restricted cash, $106 million of property, plant and equipment, and $161 million of secured debt that is non-recourse to Williams.
     Williams' initial investment and operations in Venezuela began in November 1997.
 
     The company will provide more detail on the charges and its investments in Venezuela in its first-quarter 2009 Form 10-Q.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at http://www.williams.com. Go to http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0 to join our e-mail list.
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words, such as "anticipate," believe," "could," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "may," "plan," "potential," "project," "schedule," "will," and other similar words. These statements are based on our present intentions and our assumptions about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors. In addition to any assumptions, risks, uncertainties or other factors referred to specifically in connection with such statements, other factors not specifically referenced could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. Those factors include, among others:
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We disclaim any obligation to and do not intend to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements or changes to our intentions, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


