FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20090806073253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 6, 2009, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release and its accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
     The press release and accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

NYSE: WMB
 
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) announced unaudited net income attributable to Williams, for second-quarter 2009 of $142 million, or $0.24 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $437 million, or $0.73 per share on a diluted basis for second-quarter 2008.
     Sharply lower energy commodity prices in second-quarter 2009, compared to the record-high prices in second-quarter 2008, impacted results in Exploration & Production and Midstream, as both businesses' results were significantly lower than second-quarter 2008.
     Gas Pipeline's results, as expected, were relatively steady despite the much lower commodity prices. Other factors that served to mitigate the effect of lower commodity prices include higher natural gas production; Exploration & Production's hedge positions, which cover a significant portion of its production; and fee-based revenues from certain of Midstream's gathering and processing services.
     Year-to-date through June 30, Williams reported a net loss attributable to Williams of $30 million, or $0.05 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $937 million, or $1.57 per share, for the first two quarters of 2008.
     As a result of the Venezuelan government's expropriation of the El Furrial and PIGAP II compression facilities in May, Williams is now reporting the results of those operations in discontinued operations. All year-to-date and prior-period comparisons in this news release reflect this change.
     The year-to-date loss from discontinued operations is primarily due to the charges associated with these facilities that were recorded in first-quarter 2009. The company's investment in Accroven, which was fully impaired during the first-quarter 2009, continues to be reported in the Midstream segment, as the assets have not been expropriated. Accroven owns gas processing facilities and an NGL fractionation plant in Venezuela.
     In addition to the losses associated with the Venezuelan operations and investments, the previously noted lower energy commodity prices compared with the record-high prices in 2008 also negatively affected the year-
 
to-date 2009 results. The first half of 2008 also benefited from $148 million in pre-tax gains on the sale of certain international interests.
Recurring Results Adjusted for Effect of Mark-to-Market Accounting
     Recurring income from continuing operations, after adjustments to remove the effect of mark-to-market accounting for certain hedges and other derivatives in Gas Marketing Services, was $116 million, or $0.20 per share for second-quarter 2009. On the same adjusted basis, recurring income from continuing operations was $399 million, or $0.67 per share, for second-quarter 2008.
     For the first half of 2009, recurring income from continuing operations after mark-to-market adjustments was $244 million, or $0.42 per share; compared with $735 million, or $1.23 per share, for the first half of 2008.
     The lower recurring adjusted results for both the second-quarter and year-to-date periods were also due to the large disparity between the relatively low 2009 commodity prices compared with the record-high 2008 prices.
     The relatively steady results in Gas Pipeline, as well as higher natural gas production, Exploration & Production's hedge positions and fee-based revenues in Midstream, partially offset some of the negative effect of lower commodity prices.
     A reconciliation of the company's income from continuing operations to recurring income from continuing operations and mark-to-market adjustments is available at www.williams.com and as an attachment to this news release.
2009 Guidance Ranges Updated
     Williams is updating its outlook for full-year 2009 commodity price assumptions and its earnings and capital expenditures. The following chart shows the actual year-to-date results for commodity prices, earnings and capital expenditures, as well as the company's expectation for these ranges in the second-half and full-year of 2009. For comparison, it also shows actual full-year 2008 results for the same categories.
     The company's updated outlook for 2009 recurring consolidated segment profit and earnings per share reflects higher expected net realized natural gas prices and NGL margins. The company has raised the lower-end of its guidance range for Exploration & Production by $75 million and refined Midstream's outlook by $50 million on both the lower- and upper-end of its guidance range. As a result, the company has also updated its recurring adjusted earnings per share guidance to a range of $0.70 to $0.90 for 2009.
     The company has slightly reduced its expected capital expenditures for 2009, reflecting the company's efforts to reduce operating and capital project costs.
CEO Perspective
 
     "This was a quarter in which our natural gas businesses performed as expected, as we were successful in reducing our operating and capital project costs and managing our liquidity," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "As a result, we remain on-target to meet our goals in a challenging year."
     "We also continue to take advantage of ideal growth opportunities, such as our entry into the Marcellus Shale earlier this year, and to execute on important expansion projects, such as our new Willow Creek processing facility in the Piceance Basin."
     "All of these efforts make Williams well-positioned for the coming market recovery that will drive substantial value across all of our businesses," Malcolm said.
Business Segment Performance
 
Exploration & Production
     Exploration & Production includes natural gas production and development in the U.S. Rocky Mountains, San Juan Basin, Barnett Shale, and Marcellus Shale, and oil and gas development in South America.
     The business reported segment profit of $119 million for second-quarter 2009, compared with segment profit of $496 million in second-quarter 2008.
     The significant decline in segment profit during the second quarter was due to much lower net realized average prices for natural gas, partially offset by higher production volumes.
     These higher production volumes, coupled with higher capital costs in prior years, resulted in higher depletion, depreciation and amortization expense during the second-quarter. Also, the 2008 period benefited from a $30 million pre-tax gain on the sale of certain international interests.
     Although natural gas production grew from second-quarter 2008 to second-quarter 2009, production is expected to continue to decline somewhat throughout the remainder of 2009 because of the company's reduced drilling activity. Average daily natural gas production on U.S. interests fell 4 percent from first-quarter 2009 to second-quarter 2009.
     During second-quarter 2009, Williams' net realized average price for U.S. production was $3.95 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (Mcfe), which was 51 percent lower than the $8.06 per Mcfe realized in second-quarter 2008.
     For the first half of 2009, the exploration and production business reported a segment profit of $197 million, compared with $926 million for the first half of 2008.
     Significantly lower net realized average price for natural gas was the primary driver of the lower segment profit in the first half of 2009. The first half of 2008 also benefited from $148 million in pre-tax gains on the sale of certain international interests. Also, the company recorded $34 million in expenses associated with the early
 
termination of rig contracts in the first quarter 2009. These termination expenses were a result of reductions in 2009 drilling activities in the Piceance Basin.
Midstream Gas & Liquids
     Midstream provides natural gas gathering and processing, deepwater production handling and oil transportation, natural gas liquids (NGL) fractionation and storage services and olefins production.
     The business reported a segment profit of $137 million for second-quarter 2009, compared with segment profit of $270 million for second-quarter 2008.
     The decline in segment profit for the quarter is primarily because of lower NGL and olefin prices and lower NGL equity sales volumes in the second quarter, partially offset by decreased production costs reflecting lower natural gas prices. While NGL margins in the second quarter of 2009 are still significantly lower than the 2008 margins, they have improved compared to first-quarter 2009 as natural gas prices declined and NGL prices, especially ethane, increased.
     The lower NGL equity sales volumes for the quarter were primarily due to lower volumes in the West region because certain gas processing agreements with producers converted from keep-whole to fee-based processing at the beginning of 2009. Declines in production sources and hurricane-related impacts in the Gulf region, primarily in the Western Gulf of Mexico, also contributed to lower volumes.
     For the first half of the year, Midstream's segment profit was $149 million, compared with $508 million for the first half of 2008.
     The significant decline, compared with the same period in 2008, is due primarily to the same factors that drove the reduction in segment profit for the second quarter. In addition, the year-to-date results were unfavorably impacted by a $75 million loss related to the impairment of Midstream's equity investment in the Accroven assets in Venezuela.
     In addition to the previously discussed factors that drove the reduction in NGL equity sales volumes in the second quarter, year-to-date 2009 volumes were also unfavorably impacted by periods of reduced NGL recoveries in the first quarter, primarily in the Gulf Coast region. The reduced NGL recoveries were due to unfavorable NGL economics. Offsetting these reductions, NGL equity volumes reflect a favorable impact related to an increase in inventory in the first-quarter 2008. The increase in inventory was the result of the company transitioning from selling volumes for certain plants in the West at the tailgate of the plant to shipping volumes through a third-party pipeline for sale downstream.
Gas Pipeline
     Gas Pipeline, which primarily delivers natural gas to markets along the Eastern Seaboard, in Florida and in the Pacific Northwest, reported second-quarter 2009 segment profit of $162 million, compared with $179 million for second-quarter 2008.
 
     During second-quarter 2009, Gas Pipeline experienced higher operating costs, partly offset by increased revenues from the Sentinel expansion, which was placed in service in December 2008.
     The higher costs resulted primarily from higher depreciation, operational and maintenance, and pension expenses partially offset by lower project development costs. Also, the second-quarter 2008 results included the benefit of a $9 million gain on sale of excess natural gas inventory.
     Year-to-date through June 30, Gas Pipeline reported segment profit of $341 million, compared with $359 million for the same period in 2008.
     The lower segment profit was due primarily to the higher operating costs partially offset by the higher revenues explained above and increased year-to-date earnings from the company's 50-percent interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas Systems. The year-to-date 2008 results also included the previously noted benefit of the second-quarter gain on the sale of excess gas inventory.
Gas Marketing Services
     Gas Marketing Services is responsible for supporting Williams' natural gas businesses by providing marketing and risk management services. These services primarily include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration & Production, and procuring fuel and shrink gas and hedging NGLs for Midstream.
     In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural gas related contracts, such as transportation, storage, and related hedges. It also provides marketing services to third-parties, such as producers and processing companies. The segment also manages certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions that previously were reported in the former power business, which have been reduced to a minimal level.
 
     The improvement in Gas Marketing's second-quarter recurring segment loss after mark-to-market adjustments primarily resulted from the absence of a 2008 $8 million inventory valuation adjustment related to natural gas owned in storage and a $7 million improvement in margins from buying and selling gas around transportation contracts, as well as margins realized on physical gas purchases.
     The improvement in Gas Marketing's year-to-date recurring adjusted results was primarily the result of a $13 million decrease in realized losses associated with certain legacy positions and $15 million improvement in realized natural gas margins around daily and monthly asset optimization.
     Although not significant for the second-quarter 2009 results, the company expects in the future to have some level of mark-to-market volatility in Gas Marketing Services, primarily from natural gas storage hedging.
Williams' Liquidity, Financial Strength Remain Strong
     As of July 31, 2009, Williams had approximately $1.87 billion of cash and cash equivalents, which included approximately $607 million held by certain domestic and international subsidiaries or margin deposits held on behalf of counterparties. The company also had approximately $1.87 billion of available credit capacity under the company's credit facilities. Williams' total liquidity as of July 31 was approximately $3.74 billion.
 
     Williams has no significant debt maturities until 2011 and the company's $1.43 billion primary credit facility does not expire until May 2012. Williams is rated investment grade by three of the major rating agencies.
Today's Analyst Call
     Management will discuss the second-quarter 2009 results and outlook for 2009 during a live webcast beginning at 9:30 a.m. EDT today. Participants are encouraged to access the webcast and corresponding slides for viewing, downloading and printing at www.williams.com.
     A limited number of phone lines also will be available at (877) 874-1565. International callers should dial (719) 325-4836. Replays of the second-quarter webcast, in both streaming and downloadable podcast formats, will be available for two weeks at www.williams.com following the event.
Form 10-Q
     The company plans to file its Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission today. The document will be available on both the SEC and Williams websites.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words, such as "anticipates," believes," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "objectives," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will," or other similar words. These statements are based on our present intentions and our assumptions about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors. In addition to any assumptions, risks, uncertainties or other factors referred to specifically in connection with such statements, other factors not specifically referenced could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. Those factors include, among others:
 
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We disclaim any obligation to and do not intend to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements or changes to our intentions, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. to Recurring Earnings
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Segment Profit (Loss) to Recurring Segment Profit (Loss)
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Exploration & Production
 
(UNAUDITED)
Gas Pipeline
 
(UNAUDITED)
Midstream Gas & Liquids
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Gas Marketing Services
 
(UNAUDITED)
Capital Expenditures and Investments
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization and Other Selected Financial Data
 
 
Dollars in millions except for per share amounts
Note: all amounts attributable to Williams Adjustments have been made to reverse estimated forward unrealized MTM gains/losses and add estimated realized gains/losses from MTM previously recognized, i.e. assumes MTM accounting had never been applied to designated hedges and other derivatives.
Some annual figures may differ from sum of quarterly figures due to rounding.
* Amounts have been recast to reflect certain Venezuela operations as discontinued operations.
 
Non-GAAP Measures:
     This press release includes certain financial measures, recurring earnings and recurring segment profit, that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Recurring earnings and recurring segment profit exclude items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations. Both measures provide investors meaningful insight into the company's results from ongoing operations. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare a company's performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the company. Neither recurring earnings nor recurring segment profit are intended to represent an alternative to net income or segment profit. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
     Certain financial information in this press release is also shown including Gas Marketing Services mark-to-market adjustments. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses the mark-to-market adjustments to better reflect Gas Marketing's results on a basis that is more consistent with Gas Marketing's portfolio cash flows and to aid investor understanding. The adjustments reverse forward unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses from derivatives and add realized gains or losses from derivatives for which mark-to-market income has been previously recognized, with the effect that the resulting adjusted segment profit is presented as if mark-to-market accounting had never been applied to Gas Marketing Services' derivatives. The measure is limited by the fact that it does not reflect potential unrealized future losses or gains on derivative contracts. However, management compensates for this limitation since derivative assets and liabilities do reflect unrealized gains and losses of derivative contracts. Overall, management believes the mark-to-market adjustments provide an alternative measure that more closely matches realized cash flows for the Gas Marketing segment but does not substitute for actual cash flows. We also apply the mark-to-market adjustment and the recurring adjustments to present a measure referred to as recurring income from continuing operations after mark-to-market adjustments.


