FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20090622144910.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 22, 2009, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") announced that it has signed a participation and exploration agreement to develop natural gas wells in the Marcellus Shale with Rex Energy Corporation. A copy of the press release announcing this is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) None (b) None (c) None (d) Exhibits Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated June 22, 2009.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1 (Williams logo)
NYSE: WMB
June 22, 2009
Date:
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced today that it has signed a participation and exploration agreement to develop natural gas wells in the Marcellus Shale with Rex Energy Corporation (NASDAQ: REXX).
Under the agreement, Williams is acquiring a 50-percent interest in approximately 44,000 net acres in Pennsylvania's Westmoreland, Clearfield and Centre counties for $33 million in a "drill to earn" structure.
Williams will drill to earn its 50-percent interest by incurring 90 percent of costs and expenses associated with drilling and completion of wells in the area of mutual interest until it has invested $33 million on behalf of Rex Energy and $41 million in its own costs and expenses. Williams has until the end of 2011 to fulfill its funding obligations and earn its 50-percent interest.
The company will fund the investments with cash on hand. Amounts to be spent in 2009 are within existing capital expenditure guidance.
Once Williams earns its 50-percent interest, the companies will share all costs of joint venture operations in accordance with their participating interests, which are expected to be 50/50. Rex Energy is currently operating the assets in the project areas and will continue to do so through the end of 2009, when Williams will assume operations.
"This initial entry of our exploration and production business into the Marcellus is an ideal growth opportunity, given our long experience in developing non-conventional natural gas reserves, such as tight sands, coal-bed methane and shale," said Steve Malcolm, Williams' chairman, president and chief executive officer.
Ralph Hill, who leads Williams' exploration and production business, said the company's engineers, geologists and geophysicists have extensively studied the Marcellus Shale.
"We're excited about the opportunity from a technical perspective, especially with being able to leverage our knowledge and expertise in ramping up activity in other unconventional gas plays," Hill said.
The agreement with Rex Energy is Williams' second recent transaction in the Marcellus Shale. On June 1, Williams entered a midstream joint venture that owns 1,800 miles of intrastate natural gas gathering lines servicing 6,900 Appalachian Basin wells.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas.  Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


