FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20090910073216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 10, 2009, The Williams Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release updating its 2009 guidance and providing guidance for the years 2010 and 2011, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
On August 26, 2009, The Williams Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing that Steve Malcolm, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will be presenting at the Barclay's Capital CEO Energy/Power Conference on Sept. 10, 2009.
A copy of the Company's presentation from the conference will be available for 30 days at the Company's website, http:// www.williams.com/investors and is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2) is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
List below the financial statements, pro forma financial information and exhibits, if any, filed as a part of this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NYSE: WMB
Sept. 10, 2009
Date:
          TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) today announced its initial earnings and capital expenditure guidance for 2010 and 2011. The company is also updating its full-year 2009 guidance.
          "Our outlook for 2010-11 demonstrates the earnings power of our natural gas businesses. We are forecasting sharply higher profitability over the next two years based on our expectations for energy commodity prices, which are consistent with recent forward market prices," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "By 2011 we expect to be approaching the record-level earnings and value creation we achieved during 2008, even though price assumptions are well below 2008 levels."
          The increase in the lower end of the 2009 earnings guidance range reflects improvements in the Exploration & Production and Midstream results for the remainder of the year. The slight increase in 2009 capital expenditure guidance reflects the addition of $275 million associated with the recently announced acquisition of additional properties in the Piceance Basin.
          The company's assumptions for certain energy commodity prices for 2009-11 and the corresponding guidance for the company's earnings and capital expenditures are displayed in the following table.
 
 
          Malcolm will discuss the company's new earnings and capital expenditure guidance during his presentation today at the Barclay's Capital CEO Energy/Power Conference. His presentation and a link to the live webcast of the conference are available at www.williams.com/investors.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
          This news release includes certain financial measures, recurring earnings and recurring segment profit, that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Recurring earnings and recurring segment profit exclude items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations. Both measures provide investors meaningful insight into the Company's results from ongoing operations. This news release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare company performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the Company's assets and the cash that the business is generating. Neither recurring earnings nor recurring segment profit are intended to represent cash flows for the period, nor are they presented as an alternative to net income or cash flow from operations. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
          Certain financial information in this news release is also shown including mark-to-market adjustments. This news release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses the mark-to-market adjustments to better reflect the company's results on a basis that is more consistent with its portfolio cash flows and to aid investor understanding. The adjustments reverse forward unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses from derivatives and add realized gains or losses from derivatives for which mark-to-market income has been previously recognized, with the effect that the resulting adjusted segment profit is presented as if mark-to-market accounting had never been applied to
 
Williams' derivatives. The measure is limited by the fact that it does not reflect potential unrealized future losses or gains on derivative contracts. However, management compensates for this limitation since derivative assets and liabilities do reflect unrealized gains and losses of derivative contracts. Overall, management believes the mark-to-market adjustments provide an alternative measure that more closely matches realized cash flows but does not substitute for actual cash flows. We also apply the mark-to-market adjustment and the recurring adjustments to present a measure referred to as recurring income from continuing operations after mark-to-market adjustments.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas.  Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Segment Profit (Loss) to Recurring Segment Profit (Loss)
 
 
2009 Forecast Guidance Contribution
 
 
2010  2011 Forecast Guidance Contribution
Note:
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. to Recurring Earnings
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


