FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20090324090812.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On March 20, 2009, The Williams Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing that Steve Malcolm, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Ralph Hill, president of the Company's Exploration & Production business, will be presenting at the 37th Annual Howard Weil Energy Conference on Tuesday, March 24.
A copy of the Company's presentation from the conference will be available for 30 days at the Company's website, http:// www.williams.com/investors and is also attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. Both Exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2) is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
List below the financial statements, pro forma financial information and exhibits, if any, filed as a part of this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NYSE: WMB
 
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) executives are scheduled to speak at the 37th Annual Howard Weil Energy Conference on Tuesday, March 24.
     Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Malcolm and Ralph Hill, president of the company's exploration and production business, will be presenting for the company.
     A copy of their presentation will be available at the morning of the event.
www.williams.com/investors
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


