FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20090512073530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
As previously announced, on May 12, 2009 The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") will host an "Analyst Day" that will include presentations and discussions of Williams, Williams Partners L.P. ("WPZ"), and Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. ("WMZ"). The presentations will begin at 8:30 a.m. (EDT), with the Williams-focused presentations in the morning and the WPZ and WMZ presentations in the afternoon. The presentations will be broadcast live via webcast at www.williams.com, www.williamslp.com, and williamspipelinepartners.com. A replay of the webcast will also be available for two weeks following the event at these websites.
On May 12, 2009 Williams issued a press release announcing some of the presentation topics for Analyst Day. Williams also announced it has increased its total proved, probable and possible reserves to an estimated 13 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe) from the previous estimate of 11.4 Tcfe. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein.
Williams also wishes to disclose for Regulation FD purposes that new information is provided in Williams' slide presentation to be used on May 12, 2009. Williams' slides will be available for viewing, downloading, and printing the morning of May 12, 2009 at www.williams.com. Williams notes that such new information includes, among other topics, the following:
The information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure, and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
NYSE: WMB
          TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) today will host an Analyst Day that will include in-depth presentations and discussions on the company's natural gas businesses. Some of the presentation topics will include:
          Williams also is announcing it has increased its total proved, probable and possible reserves to an estimated 13 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe). The year-end 2008 total is an increase of 14 percent from the year-end 2007 estimate of 11.4 Tcfe, after the company produced 0.406 Tcfe in 2008. Total reserves are comprised of primarily domestic interests.
          Presenters for Analyst Day will include Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer; Don Chappel, chief financial officer; Ralph Hill, president of Williams' exploration and production business; Alan Armstrong, president of Williams' midstream business; Phil Wright, president of Williams' gas pipeline business; and many other members of the company's management. 
          The Analyst Day presentations will begin at 8:30 a.m. EDT, with the Williams-focused presentations in the morning.  The Williams Partners and Williams Pipeline Partners presentations will be in the afternoon.
          The presentation slides for Williams, Williams Partners and Williams Pipeline Partners are available for viewing, downloading and printing at , and , respectively. The full day of presentations will be broadcast live on all three Web sites. A replay of the Analyst Day webcast will be available for two weeks following the event.
www.williams.com
www.williamslp.com
www.williamspipelinepartners.com
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
 
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas.  Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In regard to the company's reserves in Exploration & Production, the SEC permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves. We have used certain terms in this press release such as "probable" reserves and "possible" reserves that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. The SEC defines proved reserves as estimated hydrocarbon quantities that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known reservoirs under the assumed economic conditions. Probable and possible reserves are estimates of potential reserves that are made using accepted geological and engineering analytical techniques, but which are estimated with reduced levels of certainty than for proved reserves. Generally under such techniques, probable reserve estimates are more than 50% certain and possible reserve estimates are less than 50% but more than 10% certain.


