FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20100218073258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 18, 2010, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the press release and its accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are furnished as a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The press release and accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 7.01. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
     On February 18, 2010, Williams issued a press release announcing its domestic and international proved natural gas and oil reserves as of December 31, 2009. A copy of the press release announcing the same is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NYSE: WMB
 
Feb. 18, 2010
Date:
 
          TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced 2009 unaudited net income attributable to Williams of $285 million, or $0.49 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $1,418 million, or $2.40 cents per share on a diluted basis for 2008.
          Lower energy commodity prices in 2009, particularly in the first half of the year, impacted results in Exploration & Production and Midstream, as both businesses' results were lower than 2008.
          Higher natural gas production; Exploration & Production's hedge positions, which cover a significant portion of its production; and fee-based revenues from certain of Midstream's gathering and processing services helped mitigate the effect of the lower commodity prices in 2009. Both businesses' results also improved throughout 2009. Gas Pipeline's results, as expected, were relatively steady.
          The year-to-date loss from discontinued operations is primarily due to the charges that were recorded in first-quarter 2009 associated with the company's operations in Venezuela. As a result of the Venezuelan government's expropriation of the El Furrial and PIGAP II compression facilities in May, Williams is now reporting the results of those operations in discontinued operations.
Recurring Results Adjusted for Effect of Mark-to-Market Accounting
          Recurring income from continuing operations, after adjustments to remove the effect of mark-to-market accounting for certain hedges and other derivatives in Gas Marketing Services, is $552 million, or $0.94 per share for 2009. On the same adjusted basis, recurring income from continuing operations was $1,243 million, or $2.10 per share, for 2008.
          The lower recurring adjusted results for the year is due to the large disparity between the relatively low 2009 commodity prices, particularly in the first half of the year, compared with the 2008 prices.
          As previously noted, the relatively steady results in Gas Pipeline, as well as higher natural gas production, Exploration & Production's hedge positions and fee-based revenues in Midstream, partially offset some of the negative effect of lower commodity prices.
 
          A reconciliation of the company's income from continuing operations to recurring income from continuing operations and mark-to-market adjustments is available at and as an attachment to this news release.
www.williams.com
CEO Comment
          "With our transformational asset contributions to Williams Partners complete, we are poised to pursue a greater number of value-creating growth projects throughout our businesses," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We will pursue these opportunities with financial discipline using the strength of our investment-grade balance sheet.
          "One of the opportunities we are seizing is a midstream expansion in the Marcellus Shale. Williams Partners will fund the construction of a natural gas gathering pipeline to support a long-term agreement with Cabot Oil & Gas, one of the key producers in the area.
          "Growing our businesses will benefit our shareholders and also add to our domestic natural gas infrastructure," Malcolm said. "We believe strongly that natural gas is a very important part of our energy future  it's an abundant, job-creating, cleaner domestic energy source. It also will help make renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar, viable long-term options."
Consolidated Earnings Guidance for 2010-11 Unchanged, Recurring Adjusted Earnings Expected to Double by 2011
          The chart below shows Williams' 2010-11 commodity price assumptions and the related outlook for its consolidated financial results for 2010-11. The chart reflects the pro-forma post-restructuring reporting of Williams and Williams Partners.
          Beginning with reporting in first-quarter 2010, Williams' business segments for financial reporting will be Exploration & Production, Williams Partners and Other. The company's consolidated financial reporting will be unchanged. Exploration & Production will include the former Gas Marketing segment and the Other segment will include the Canadian and Olefins midstream businesses and the retained 25.5-percent interest in Gulfstream.
          For Williams Partners' reporting beginning first-quarter 2010, its business segments will be Gas Pipeline and Midstream.
          The commodity price assumptions and consolidated earnings outlook for 2010-11 are unchanged from what the company previously provided on Jan. 19. Williams Partners' 2010 capital expenditures have been increased in the consolidated outlook by $100 million to a range of $950 million to $1,200 million. This increase primarily reflects the previously noted Midstream expansion in the Marcellus Shale.
          Williams expects to double its recurring adjusted earnings in 2011 compared with 2009 at the midpoint of guidance. Primary drivers for the increase in profits include higher commodity prices, higher natural gas production and the contribution of growth projects.
          As previously announced, Williams expects to incur estimated nonrecurring charges totaling approximately $425 million, net of tax, in the first-quarter 2010 in conjunction with the asset contribution transactions with Williams Partners. These are comprised primarily of costs associated with Williams' cash tender offer for debt, including the market-value premium. The company expects lower annual interest expenses associated with the new Williams Partners debt offering to substantially offset the economic effect of the market-value premium over book value.
 
Business Segment Results
 
          Williams' business segment results for fourth-quarter and full-year 2009 are presented in the following table. As previously announced, Williams' business segment reporting will change beginning with first-quarter 2010 to reflect the company's new reporting segments as a result of the strategic restructuring. As this table reflects 2009 results, it is being presented in the pre-restructuring form.
 
Exploration & Production
          Exploration & Production includes natural gas production and development in the U.S. Rocky Mountains, San Juan Basin, Barnett Shale, and oil and gas development in South America. The company also made its initial investment in the Marcellus Shale in 2009.
          The business reported segment profit of $418 million for 2009, compared with segment profit of $1,260 million in 2008.
          The decline in segment profit is due to lower net realized average prices for natural gas production in 2009 versus 2008. During 2009, Williams' net realized average price for U.S. production was $4.22 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (Mcfe), which was 35 percent lower than the $6.48 per Mcfe realized in 2008.
          Higher natural gas production for the year and lower operating taxes partially offset the decline in net realized average price. Also contributing to the segment profit decline was higher depletion expense for the year driven by higher capitalized costs.
          Although full-year average daily natural gas production grew from 2008 to 2009, average daily production declined somewhat throughout 2009 because of the company's reduced drilling activity. Average daily natural gas production on U.S. interests fell 4 percent from first-quarter to fourth-quarter 2009.
          For fourth-quarter 2009, Exploration & Production reported a segment profit of $115 million, compared with a segment loss of $27 million in fourth-quarter 2008.
          The primary driver of the year-over-year increase in fourth quarter segment profit was the absence of impairment charges of $129 million related to properties in the Arkoma Basin that were recorded in fourth-quarter 2008.
          In a separate announcement today, Williams announced that its total proved natural gas and oil reserves as of Dec. 31, 2009, were approximately 4.5 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe)  including international reserves of approximately 0.2 Tcfe. These numbers are based on the new Securities and Exchange Commission reporting rules.
          Before adjusting for the effects of unusually low 2009 prices, total proved reserves would have been up 7 percent to 4.8 Tcfe with a reserves replacement rate of 173 percent. Using the same adjustment method, domestic reserves would have also increased 7 percent to approximately 4.6 Tcfe. Approximately 97 percent of total proved reserves are natural gas, with approximately 57 percent proved developed and 43 percent proved undeveloped reflecting a continuation of the increase in the ratio of proved developed to undeveloped.
           Before adjusting for the effects of 2009 natural gas prices, the company' three-year average proved U.S. finding and development (F&D) cost was $2.38 per thousand cubic feet equivalent (Mcfe) down from $2.57 per Mcfe in 2008. The three year average F&D cost for reserves adds from drilling activity was $2.06 per Mcfe. For year 2009 alone, Williams' F&D cost was $1.69 per Mcfe. The 2009 cost from drilling activity was $1.53 per Mcfe.
          Please see today's separate news release for the complete discussion of the company's 2009 natural gas reserves.
Midstream Gas & Liquids
 
          Midstream provides natural gas gathering, treating, and processing, deepwater production handling and oil transportation, NGL fractionation and storage services and olefin production.
          The business reported segment profit of $640 million for 2009, compared with segment profit of $871 million for 2008. On a recurring basis, segment profit was $665 million for 2009, compared with recurring segment profit of $834 million for 2008.
          The decline in segment profit for the year is primarily because of lower average annual NGL and olefin prices, partially offset by decreased production costs reflecting lower natural gas prices. Higher fee-based revenues also helped mitigate the lower NGL prices. NGL prices, especially ethane prices, have generally been improving during 2009, following significant declines in the fourth quarter of 2008.
          The increase in fee-based revenue for the year was attributable to connecting new supplies in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico through the Blind Faith extension in late 2008, as well as new volumes from processing Williams' natural gas production at Willow Creek.
          Also contributing to the decline were non-recurring items. These included a $68 million loss in first-quarter 2009 related to Midstream's Venezuelan investment and the absence of $32 million of income related to a partial settlement of litigation in 2008. These items were partially offset by a $40 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the company's Cameron Meadows processing plant in the fourth quarter of 2009.
          For fourth-quarter 2009, Midstream reported segment profit of $269 million, compared with $134 million in fourth-quarter 2008.
          The improvement in results for the fourth quarter is primarily due to improved NGL and olefin prices and production in the fourth quarter of 2009 over 2008. Equity earnings of the company's Discovery investment were higher in the fourth quarter of 2009 due primarily to the absence of unfavorable hurricane impacts that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 and new volumes from Discovery's Tahiti expansion in 2009. In addition, fee revenues were higher as a result of processing volumes at the new Willow Creek plant.
Gas Pipeline
          Gas Pipeline, which primarily delivers natural gas to markets along the Eastern Seaboard, in Florida and in the Pacific Northwest, reported 2009 segment profit of $667 million, compared with $689 million for 2008.
          The lower segment profit was due primarily to higher operating and maintenance, depreciation and pension expenses, partially offset by higher other service revenues and by lower project development costs.
          The 2008 results also included the benefit of a $9 million gain on sale of excess natural gas inventory in the second quarter and a $10 million gain on the sale of certain assets in the third quarter.
          For fourth-quarter 2009, Gas Pipeline reported segment profit of $169 million, compared with $157 million for fourth-quarter 2008.
          The higher segment profit was due primarily to higher transportation revenues, partially offset by higher SG&A and other expenses.
Gas Marketing
 
          Williams is not including a discussion of Gas Marketing's results in this news release. The full Management Discussion and Analysis of 2009 results will be provided in the company's Form 10-K that it plans to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission next week.
Today's Analyst Call
          Management will discuss the year-end 2009 results and 2010-11 consolidated outlook during a live webcast beginning at 9:30 a.m. EST today. Participants are encouraged to access the webcast and slides for viewing, downloading and printing at .
www.williams.com
          A limited number of phone lines also will be available at (888) 352-6793. International callers should dial (719) 457-2643. Replays of the year-end webcast, in both streaming and downloadable podcast formats, will be available for two weeks at following the event.
www.williams.com
Form 10-K
     The company plans to file its Form 10-K with the SEC during the week of Feb. 22. The document will be available on both the SEC and Williams websites.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is an integrated natural gas company focused on exploration and production, midstream gathering and processing, and interstate natural gas transportation primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Eastern Seaboard and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Most of the company's interstate gas pipeline and midstream assets are held through its 84-percent ownership interest (including the general-partner interest) in Williams Partners L.P (NYSE: WPZ), a leading diversified master limited partnership. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
 
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on Feb. 25, 2009, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at .
www.williams.com
The SEC requires oil and gas companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose proved reserves, which are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible  from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, under existing economic condition, operating methods , and governmental regulations. Beginning with year-end reserves for 2009, the SEC permits the optional disclosure of probable and possible reserves. We have elected to use in this presentation, but not in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, "probable" reserves and "possible" reserves, excluding their valuation. The SEC defines "probable" reserves as "those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered." The SEC defines "possible" reserves as "those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than probable reserves." Williams has applied these definitions in estimating probable and possible reserves. Statements of reserves are only estimates and may not correspond to the ultimate quantities of oil and gas recovered. Any reserve estimates provided in this presentation that are not specifically designated as being estimates of proved reserves may include estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with, or contemplated by, the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Williams' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, available from Williams at One Williams Center, Tulsa, OK 74172 (Attn: Investor Relations). You can also obtain this report from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at .
www.sec.gov
 
The SEC's rules prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC estimates of resources. Our resource estimations include estimates of hydrocarbon quantities for (i) new areas for which we do not have sufficient information to date to classify as proved, probable or even possible reserves and (ii) other areas to take into account the low level of certainty of recovery of the resources. Resource estimates do not take into account the certainty of resource recovery and are therefore not indicative of the expected future recovery and should not be relied upon. Resource estimates might never be recovered and are contingent on exploration success, technical improvements in drilling access, commerciality and other factors.
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. to Recurring Earnings
 
(UNAUDITED)
Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Segment Profit (Loss) to Recurring Segment Profit (Loss)
 
(UNAUDITED)
Exploration & Production
 
(UNAUDITED)
Gas Pipeline
 
(UNAUDITED)
Midstream Gas & Liquids
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Gas Marketing Services
 
(UNAUDITED)
Capital Expenditures and Investments
 
(UNAUDITED)
Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization and Other Selected Financial Data
 
Dollars in millions except for per share amounts
Note: all amounts attributable to Williams
Adjustments have been made to reverse estimated forward unrealized MTM gains/losses and add estimated realized gains/losses from MTM previously recognized, i.e. assumes MTM accounting had never been applied to designated hedges and other derivatives.
Some annual figures may differ from sum of quarterly figures due to rounding.
 
Non-GAAP Measures:
     This press release includes certain financial measures, recurring earnings and recurring segment profit, that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Recurring earnings and recurring segment profit exclude items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations. Both measures provide investors meaningful insight into the company's results from ongoing operations. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare a company's performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the company. Neither recurring earnings nor recurring segment profit are intended to represent an alternative to net income or segment profit. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
     Certain financial information in this press release is also shown including Gas Marketing Services mark-to-market adjustments, such as recurring income from continuing operations after mark-to-market adjustments and the related per share measures. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses the mark-to-market adjustments to better reflect Gas Marketing's results on a basis that is more consistent with Gas Marketing's portfolio cash flows and to aid investor understanding. The adjustments reverse forward unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses from derivatives and add realized gains or losses from derivatives for which mark-to-market income has been previously recognized, with the effect that the resulting adjusted segment profit is presented as if mark-to-market accounting had never been applied to Gas Marketing Services' derivatives. The measure is limited by the fact that it does not reflect potential unrealized future losses or gains on derivative contracts. However, management compensates for this limitation since derivative assets and liabilities do reflect unrealized gains and losses of derivative contracts. Overall, management believes the mark-to-market adjustments provide an alternative measure that more closely matches realized cash flows for the Gas Marketing segment but does not substitute for actual cash flows. We also apply the mark-to-market adjustment and the recurring adjustments to present a measure referred to as recurring income from continuing operations after mark-to-market adjustments.

Exhibit 99.2
NYSE: WMB
 
Feb. 18, 2010
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced today that its total proved natural gas and oil reserves as of Dec. 31, 2009, were approximately 4.5 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe)  including international reserves of approximately 0.2 Tcfe.
     Before adjusting for the effects of unusually low 2009 prices, total proved reserves would have been up 7 percent to 4.8 Tcfe with a reserves replacement rate of 173 percent. Using the same adjustment method, U.S. reserves would have also increased 7 percent to approximately 4.6 Tcfe. Approximately 97 percent of total proved reserves are natural gas, with approximately 57 percent proved developed and 43 percent proved undeveloped reflecting a continuation of the increase in the ratio of proved developed to undeveloped.
     Proved, probable, and possible (3P) reserves increased by 14 percent to 14.8 Tcfe from 13.0 Tcfe in 2008.
     The new Securities and Exchange Commission reporting rules require that year-end proved reserve volumes are calculated using an average price for the full-year 2009, rather than the year-end price. This resulted in utilization of a basin price approximately 33 percent lower than the previous year. When applying this average price and other new rules from the SEC, U.S. proved reserves were 4.3 Tcfe.
     The new SEC disclosures rules allow for reserves sensitivity analysis using alternate price and cost criteria. The following table reflects alternate natural gas price scenarios, which are below current forward basin market prices.
2009 Year-End U.S. Proved Reserves
     Under the new rules, reserves generally cannot be classified as proved if they will take more than five years to develop according to planned drilling activity and taking into account anticipated proved undeveloped conversion rates for wells drilled. This rule change resulted in reclassification of 496 Bcfe of reserves from proved undeveloped to probable.
     Additionally, the new rules now allow adding undeveloped proved reserves locations that are more than one offset away from currently producing wells where there is reasonable certainty of production. This rule change resulted in the addition of 454 Bcfe of proved reserves.
     Williams added 570 Bcfe through 2009 drilling activity. Williams anticipates developing all year-end 2009 proved reserves within five years.
     In 2009, Williams invested almost $1.3 billion of capital in its exploration and production business. That figure includes $873 million for U.S. development drilling and $305 million in growth acquisitions.
 
     "The extent of what our team accomplished in 2009 is striking particularly in an environment where we were working with about half the capital of the prior year," said Ralph Hill, president of Williams' E&P business.
     "Even with this lower capital level, we added 570 Bcfe of drill bit additions essentially equal to prior years, established our position in the Marcellus Shale, and completed a major acquisition in the Piceance. We drove our costs down sharply and our drilling investments continued to deliver strong returns on capital even with lower prices. "
     As predicted by the company, the Rockies basis differential has narrowed. The differential was less than 30 cents per million British thermal unit (MMBtu) by year end 2009. The company believes that more than sufficient capacity and optionality currently exists for Rockies gas to move to a variety of attractive markets. And with planned additional pipeline capacity under construction, the company believes the Rockies basis will continue to be in a similar narrow range for the majority of the decade. The current market exemplifies this with a basis range between 40-50 cents per MMBtu through 2016.
     In 2009, Williams participated in 882 gross wells in the United States, achieving a drilling success rate of 99 percent, and increased production by 8 percent.
     Before adjusting for the effects of 2009 natural gas prices, the company's three-year average proved U.S. finding and development (F&D) cost was $2.38 per thousand cubic feet equivalent (Mcfe), down from $2.57 per Mcfe in 2008. The three year average F&D cost for reserves adds from drilling activity was $2.06 per Mcfe. For year 2009 alone, Williams' F&D cost was $1.69 per Mcfe. The 2009 cost from drilling activity was $1.53 per Mcfe.
     International proved reserves for year-end 2009 increased 26 percent from the prior year of approximately 26 million barrels of oil equivalent to approximately 33 million barrels of oil equivalent, or approximately 0.2 Tcfe of natural gas.
     Williams' exploration and production business primarily develops natural gas reserves in the Piceance, Powder River, San Juan, Fort Worth and Marcellus Shale/Appalachia basins in the U.S.
     Approximately 99 percent of Williams' year-end 2009 U.S. proved reserves estimates were audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. Their judgment determined Williams' estimates are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
     Approximately 93 percent of proved reserves estimates for international properties were reviewed and certified by Ralph E. Davis and Associates, with approximately 7 percent reviewed and certified by RPS Energy.
     Proved reserves are estimated quantities that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known reservoirs under assumed economic conditions.
Proved Reserves Reconciliation
Amounts in billion cubic feet equivalent of natural gas
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is an integrated natural gas company focused on exploration and production, midstream gathering and processing, and interstate natural gas transportation primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Eastern Seaboard and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Most of the company's interstate gas pipeline and midstream assets are held through its 84-percent ownership interest (including the general-partner interest) in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), a leading diversified master limited partnership. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
 
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to
 
update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on Feb. 25, 2009, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at .
www.williams.com
The SEC requires oil and gas companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose proved reserves, which are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible  from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, under existing economic condition, operating methods , and governmental regulations. Beginning with year-end reserves for 2009, the SEC permits the optional disclosure of probable and possible reserves. We have elected to use in this presentation, but not in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, "probable" reserves and "possible" reserves, excluding their valuation. The SEC defines "probable" reserves as "those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered." The SEC defines "possible" reserves as "those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than probable reserves." Williams has applied these definitions in estimating probable and possible reserves. Statements of reserves are only estimates and may not correspond to the ultimate quantities of oil and gas recovered. Any reserve estimates provided in this presentation that are not specifically designated as being estimates of proved reserves may include estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with, or contemplated by, the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Williams' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, available from Williams at One Williams Center, Tulsa, OK 74172 (Attn: Investor Relations). You can also obtain this report from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at .
www.sec.gov
The SEC's rules prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC estimates of resources. Our resource estimations include estimates of hydrocarbon quantities for (i) new areas for which we do not have sufficient information to date to classify as proved, probable or even possible reserves and (ii) other areas to take into account the low level of certainty of recovery of the resources. Resource estimates do not take into account the certainty of resource recovery and are therefore not indicative of the expected future recovery and should not be relied upon. Resource estimates might never be recovered and are contingent on exploration success, technical improvements in drilling access, commerciality and other factors.


