FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20101001105341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.04 Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans.
On October 1, 2010, The Williams Companies, Inc. (the "Company") provided a notice to its directors and executive officers informing them of a blackout period for The Williams Investment Plus Plan (the "401(k) plan") and the trading restrictions that apply to them during the blackout period. This notice was required pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commissions Regulation BTR which prohibits trading in Company securities by directors and executive officers during blackout periods. The blackout period is required to facilitate the elimination of the WMB Common Stock Fund as an investment option under the 401(k) plan. The blackout period will begin on November 29, 2010 and is expected to end during the week of December 12, 2010. A copy of the notice to directors and executive officers is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

This memorandum is to alert you to new, temporary restrictions on the trading of The Williams Companies, Inc. (the "Company") common stock that will affect you directly. According to the terms of The Williams Investment Plus Plan (the "Plan"), the WMB Common Stock Fund (the "Fund") must be eliminated as an investment fund in the Plan on or before December 31, 2010. In order to facilitate this elimination, participants will be unable to trade in the Fund and/ or take certain withdrawals, loans and distributions commencing November 29, 2010 at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time while employee balances are liquidated by Independent Fiduciary Services, Inc., an independent fiduciary and investment manager. We anticipate that the liquidation will be completed during the week of December 12, 2010.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") rules provide that, during the blackout period, all directors and executive officers are generally prohibited from directly or indirectly buying or selling the Company's common stock, exercising equity awards, or otherwise engaging in transactions, regardless of whether you participate in the Plan. This blackout period not only restricts your ability to engage in transactions in Company common stock held under the Plan, but also in Company common stock held in accounts outside of the Plan. The restrictions on trading during this blackout period are in addition to the restrictions in the Company's Insider Trading Policy. .
This means that during the period from November 29, 2010 through the week of December 12, 2010, you will not be able to directly or indirectly buy, sell or otherwise acquire, transfer or dispose of any shares of Company common stock or any derivative of Company common stock, subject to certain limited exceptions, some of which are set forth below
The trading restrictions do not apply to certain transactions in Company common stock, including, without limitation:
If you engage in a transaction that violates these rules, you may be required to disgorge your profits from the transaction, and you may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.
After the blackout period ends, you will be permitted to resume transactions in the Company's common stock subject to the pre-clearance requirements of the Company's Insider Trading Policy.
Should you have any questions in the interim regarding the blackout period, please do not hesitate to contact me by telephone at 918-573-2641, e-mail at lafleur.browne@williams.com or by mail at The Williams Companies, Inc., One Williams Center, MD-47, Tulsa, OK 74172.


