FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20100222141835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Consummation of Dropdown
          On February 17, 2010, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") and Williams Partners L.P. (the "Partnership") consummated the dropdown transaction (the "Dropdown") contemplated by the previously announced Contribution Agreement among the Partnership and certain subsidiaries of Williams, specifically Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC ("WGP"), Williams Energy Services, LLC ("WES"), WGP Gulfstream Pipeline Company, L.L.C. ("WGPGPC"), Williams Partners GP LLC (the "General Partner," and together with WGP, WES, and WGPGPC, the "Contributing Parties"), and Williams Partners Operating LLC, the operating subsidiary of the Partnership (the "Operating Company," and together with the Partnership, the "Partnership Parties"). Williams is also a party to the Contribution Agreement for the limited purpose described in the Contribution Agreement.
          A more detailed description of the material terms of the Contribution Agreement was included in the Williams' Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 19, 2010.
Entry into New Credit Facility
          On February 17, 2010, the Partnership, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC ("Transco") and Northwest Pipeline GP ("Northwest"), as co-borrowers, entered into a new $1.75 billion three-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "New Credit Facility") with Citibank N.A. as administrative agent. The full amount of the New Credit Facility is available to the Partnership and may be increased by up to an additional $250 million. Each of Transco and Northwest may borrow up to $400 million under the New Credit Facility to the extent not otherwise utilized by the Partnership. At closing, the Partnership borrowed $250 million under the New Credit Facility to repay the term loan outstanding under its existing senior unsecured credit agreement, as described in more detail in Item 1.02 below.
          Interest on borrowings under the New Credit Facility is payable at rates per annum equal to, at the option of the borrower: (1) a fluctuating base rate equal to Citibank, N.A.'s adjusted base rate plus the applicable margin, or (2) a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR plus the applicable margin. The adjusted base rate will be the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.5 percent, (ii) Citibank N.A.'s publicly announced base rate, and (iii) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0 percent. The Partnership is required to pay a commitment fee based on the unused portion of the New Credit Facility. The applicable margin and the commitment fee are determined for each borrower by reference to a pricing schedule based on such borrower's senior unsecured debt ratings.
          The New Credit Facility contains various covenants that limit, among other things, each borrower's and its respective subsidiaries' ability to incur indebtedness, grant certain liens supporting indebtedness, merge or consolidate, sell all or substantially all of its assets, enter into certain affiliate transactions, make certain distributions during an event of default and allow any material change in the nature of their business.
          Under the New Credit Facility, the Partnership is required to maintain a ratio of debt to EBITDA (each as defined in the New Credit Facility) of no greater than 5.00 to 1.00 for itself and its consolidated subsidiaries. For each of Transco and Northwest and their respective consolidated subsidiaries, the ratio of debt to capitalization (defined as net worth plus debt) is not permitted to be greater than 55%. Each of the above ratios will be tested beginning June 30, 2010 at the end of each fiscal quarter, and the debt to EBITDA ratio is measured on a rolling four-quarter basis.
          The New Credit Facility includes customary events of default, including events of default relating to non-payment of principal, interest or fees, inaccuracy of representations and warranties in any material respect when made or when deemed made, violation of covenants, cross payment-defaults, cross acceleration, bankruptcy and insolvency events, certain unsatisfied judgments and a change of control. If an event of default with respect to a borrower occurs under the New Credit Facility, the lenders will be able to terminate the commitments for all borrowers and accelerate the maturity of the loans of the defaulting borrower under the New Credit Facility and exercise other rights and remedies.
          The New Credit Facility is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
          The foregoing description of the New Credit Facility is not complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such agreement. The New Credit Facility is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K to provide investors with information regarding its terms. It is not intended to provide any other factual information about the Partnership or the other parties to the agreement or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates.
 
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
          On February 17, 2010, the Partnership terminated, and repaid all amounts owed under, its $450 million senior unsecured credit agreement with Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent, comprised initially of a $200 million revolving credit facility available for borrowings and letters of credit and a $250 million term loan. Upon the termination of this credit agreement, the Partnership entered into the New Credit Facility, detailed in Item 1.01 above.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
          The description of the New Credit Facility in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
          On February 17, 2010, Williams and the Partnership issued a joint press release announcing, among other things, the consummation of the Dropdown. A copy of the press release is furnished and attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
          On February 17, 2010, Williams also issued a press release announcing the final results of its previously announced tender offer to purchase up to $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of its outstanding debt securities and consent solicitations to amend certain provisions of the indentures pursuant to which such debt securities were issued. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) 
Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: February 22, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.2
Feb. 17, 2010
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced today the expiration and final results of its previously announced cash tender offer and consent solicitations.
     As of the previously announced expiration time of 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on Feb. 16, approximately $4.76 billion aggregate principal amount of notes subject to the tender offer and consent solicitations had been validly tendered and not validly withdrawn. Based on the tender cap and the proration terms of the tender offer, Williams accepted $3 billion aggregate principal amount of such notes, resulting in aggregate consideration of approximately $3.57 billion (plus an additional $62.4 million in aggregate accrued interest).
     The aggregate principal amount tendered and the aggregate principal amount accepted with respect to each series of such notes is set out in the table below:
 
 
     The amount of each series of notes that was accepted in the tender offer was determined in accordance with the Acceptance Priority Level noted in the table above. Williams accepted any and all of the validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) notes listed above as First Priority Notes. Williams accepted validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) notes listed above as Second Priority Notes subject to a cap equal to the $3 billion tender cap minus the aggregate principal amount of First Priority Notes accepted for purchase. Because the tender offer was oversubscribed, Second Priority Notes were accepted on a pro rata basis.
     Holders that validly tendered and did not withdraw their notes at or prior to the early tender deadline of 5 p.m., New York City time, on Feb. 1, 2010, and whose notes were accepted, will receive the Total Consideration for each series of notes in the table above. Holders that validly tendered their notes after the early tender deadline but at or prior to the expiration time, and whose notes were accepted, will receive only the previously announced Tender Offer Consideration, which is equal to the Total Consideration on each series of notes minus an Early Tender Premium of $30 per $1,000 principal amount of notes. A consent fee of $2.50 per $1,000 principal amount of notes is included in both the Tender Offer Consideration and Total Consideration and will be paid to all holders that validly tender, including those that were not accepted in the tender offer. In addition, Williams will pay accrued and unpaid interest on the notes purchased pursuant to the tender offer to, but not including, the settlement date.
     Although the Offer to Purchase states that payment for notes tendered and accepted for purchase is expected to be made on Feb. 19, 2010, Williams now expects to make such payment earlier. All other notes tendered but not accepted for purchase will be returned to holders.
     The complete terms and conditions of the tender offer and consent solicitations are set forth in the Offer to Purchase, dated Jan. 19, 2010, and the related Letter of Transmittal and Consent Form that were sent to holders of notes. All capitalized terms used but not defined in this press release shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Offer to Purchase. Holders are urged to read the Offer to Purchase and the Letter of Transmittal and Consent Form carefully.
     Williams made this tender offer and consent solicitations as part of the strategic restructuring the company jointly announced with Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ) on Jan. 19. Please see the news release from that day for details about the restructuring.
     The Dealer Managers and Solicitation Agents for the tender offer and consent solicitations were Barclays Capital Inc. and Citi. Global Bondholder Services Corporation acted as the Information Agent and the Depositary for the tender offer and the consent solicitations.
     This press release is neither an offer to purchase, nor a solicitation of an offer to sell, any securities. Williams made the offer only by, and pursuant to, the terms and conditions of the Offer to Purchase and the Letter of Transmittal and Consent Form. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the Information Agent, Global Bondholder Services Corporation, which can be reached at (212) 430-3774 or toll-free at (866) 736-2200.
 
     Questions regarding the tender offer and consent solicitations may be directed to the Dealer Managers and Solicitation Agents. Barclays Capital Inc. can be reached at (212) 528-7581 or toll-free at (800) 438-3242. Citi can be reached toll-free at (800) 558-3745.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


