FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20100119071325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: 918/573-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On January 15, 2010, Williams Partners L.P. (the "Partnership") entered into a Contribution Agreement with certain subsidiaries of The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams"), specifically Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC ("WGP"), Williams Energy Services, LLC ("WES"), WGP Gulfstream Pipeline Company, L.L.C. ("WGPGPC"), Williams Partners GP LLC (the "General Partner," and together with WGP, WES, and WGPGPC, the "Contributing Parties"), and Williams Partners Operating LLC, the operating subsidiary of the Partnership (the "Operating Company," and together with the Partnership, the "Partnership Parties"). Williams is also a party to the Contribution Agreement for the limited purpose described below. Pursuant to the Contribution Agreement, the Contributing Parties will contribute to the Partnership the ownership interests in the entities that make up Williams' Gas Pipeline and Midstream Gas and Liquids business segments (including its limited and general partner interests in Williams Pipeline Partners L.P., a publicly traded Delaware master limited partnership ("WMZ"), but excluding its Canadian, Venezuelan and olefins operations, and a 25.5% interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C.), to the extent not already owned by the Partnership and its subsidiaries (the "Contributed Entities"). This contribution will be in exchange for aggregate consideration of:
     The Net Cash Consideration will be paid to Williams from the net proceeds of a proposed private placement (the "Proposed Private Placement") of the Partnership's senior unsecured notes (the "Debt Securities") to be conducted pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and, to the extent the net proceeds to the Partnership from the Proposed Private Placement total less than the Net Cash Consideration, borrowings under a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility to be established by the Partnership (the "Partnership Credit Facility," and together with the Proposed Private Placement, the "Proposed Financing Transactions").
     The issuance of the Class C Units will be made in reliance upon an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
     Pursuant to the Contribution Agreement, the Contributing Parties have agreed to indemnify the Partnership Parties, their subsidiaries and their respective securityholders, directors, officers, and employees, and the directors, officers, and employees of the General Partner (the "Partnership Indemnified Parties") against certain losses resulting from any breach of the Contributing Parties' representations, warranties, covenants or agreements or any breach or violation of any environmental laws (as defined in the Contribution Agreement) that occurs prior to closing by any of the Contributed Entities or their subsidiaries or relating to the assets of the Contributed Entities or their subsidiaries. The Partnership Parties have agreed to indemnify the Contributing Parties, their affiliates (other than any of the Partnership Indemnified Parties), the Contributed Entities and their subsidiaries, and their respective securityholders, directors, officers, and employees against certain losses resulting from any breach of the Partnership Parties' representations, warranties, covenants or agreements. Certain of the indemnification obligations of the Contributing Parties, on the one hand, and the Partnership Parties, on the other hand, are subject to a minimum claim amount of $400,000 and an aggregate deductible of $180 million. All of the indemnification obligations of the Contributing Parties, on the one hand, and the Partnership Parties, on the other hand, are subject to a cap equal to $1.44 billion, except that the Contributing Parties' indemnification obligation
 
with respect to a breach of their representation of title to the Contributed Entities shall not exceed an amount equal to $9.5 billion minus the amount paid in respect of all other indemnification obligations of the Contributing Parties. In addition, the parties have reciprocal indemnification obligations for certain tax liabilities and losses and those obligations are not subject to the deductible and cap. Williams has agreed to guarantee the indemnification obligations of the Contributing Parties up to a maximum of $1.44 billion.
     The closing of the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of a number of customary and other closing conditions, including, among others, (i) the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (ii) the Proposed Financing Transactions having closed or being ready to close (or, if applicable, having closed into escrow) on terms satisfactory to Williams in its discretion and the Proposed Financing Transactions raising or making available to the Partnership net cash proceeds that equal or exceed the Net Cash Consideration, (iii) the Partnership's common limited partner units to be issued upon conversion of the Class C Units being approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject only to official notice of issuance, (iv) conditions related to the maintenance of certain credit ratings of Williams and the Partnership and receipt of investment grade ratings for the Debt Securities, (v) the Partnership's receipt of a tax opinion of Andrews Kurth LLP regarding "qualifying income" matters, (vi) the various ancillary agreements to be entered into in connection with the Contribution Agreement having been executed by each of the parties thereto, and (vii) the absence of any "material adverse effect" of the Contributed Entities and their subsidiaries or of the Partnership since the execution of the Contribution Agreement.
     Upon the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement, the agreements that are attached as exhibits to the Contribution Agreement will be executed. These agreements are (i) a Conveyance, Contribution and Assumption Agreement among the Contributing Parties and the Partnership Parties (the "Conveyance Agreement"), (ii) an Omnibus Agreement between Williams and the Partnership, (iii) a Limited Call Right Forbearance Agreement between the Partnership and the General Partner (the "Forbearance Agreement"), (iv) an Administrative Services Agreement between Transco Pipeline Services LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Contractor"), and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Transco"), (v) a Secondment Agreement among Williams, the Partnership and the General Partner, and (vi) an Amendment to the Partnership's Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership, as amended (the "Partnership Agreement Amendment").
     The Conveyance Agreement will effect the contribution of the ownership interests in the Contributed Entities from the Contributing Parties to the Partnership and will further transfer the ownership interests in the Contributed Entities from the Partnership to the Operating Company.
     Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, Williams will indemnify the Partnership from and against or reimburse the Partnership for (i) amounts incurred by the Partnership or its subsidiaries for repair or abandonment costs for damages to certain facilities caused by Hurricane Ike, up to a maximum of $10,000,000, (ii) maintenance capital expenditure amounts incurred by the Partnership or its subsidiaries in respect of certain U.S. Department of Transportation projects, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000,000, and (iii) the amount of amortization over time of deferred revenue amounts that relate to cash payments received prior to the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement for services to be rendered by the Partnership in the future at the Devils Tower floating production platform located in Mississippi Canyon Block 773. In addition, the Partnership will pay to Williams the proceeds of certain sales of natural gas recovered from the Hester storage field pursuant to the FERC order dated March 27, 2008, approving a settlement agreement in Docket No. RP06-569.
     Pursuant to the Forbearance Agreement, the General Partner will agree to forbear exercising a right in certain circumstances that is granted to it under the Partnership's Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (the "Partnership Agreement"). Under the Partnership Agreement, if the General Partner and its affiliates hold more than 80% of the Partnership's common limited partner units, the General Partner has the right to purchase all of the remaining common limited partner units. In the Forbearance Agreement, the General Partner will agree not to exercise this right unless it and its affiliates hold more than 85% of the Partnership's common limited partner units. The Forbearance Agreement will terminate when the ownership by the General Partner and its affiliates of the Partnership's common limited partner units decreases below 75% (assuming the full conversion of Class C Units that are held by the General Partner and its affiliates).
     Pursuant to the Administrative Services Agreement, the Contractor will provide personnel, facilities, goods, and equipment not otherwise provided by Transco that are necessary to operate Transco's businesses. In return, Transco will reimburse the Contractor for all direct and indirect expenses the Contractor incurs or payments it makes (including salary, bonus, incentive compensation, and benefits) in connection with these services.
 
     Pursuant to the Secondment Agreement, Williams will cause its affiliates to provide personnel necessary to operate, manage, maintain and report the operating results of the Partnership's Midstream Gas and Liquids business segment. During the period that such personnel are providing services related to the Partnership's Midstream Gas and Liquids business segment, they will be subject to the direction, supervision and control of the General Partner. The General Partner will also be responsible for the costs and expenses related to such services, which the Partnership will agree to reimburse in accordance with the Partnership Agreement.
     Pursuant to the Partnership Agreement Amendment, the Partnership's Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership will be amended to (i) authorize the issuance of the Class C Units of the Partnership that will comprise part of the consideration for the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement and to make certain other changes in connection with the authorization of the issuance of the Class C Units of the Partnership, (ii) provide for the proration of distributions, with respect to the first fiscal quarter in which the Class C Units and the Additional Partner Units are outstanding, on the Class C Units and the Additional Partner Units to reflect the fact that the Class C Units and the Additional Partner Units will not be outstanding during the full quarterly period, and (iii) provide that certain amounts received by the Partnership under the Omnibus Agreement are to be treated as a capital contribution to the Partnership by Williams in the amount of such payment.
     The General Partner serves as the general partner of the Partnership, holding a 2% general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in the Partnership. Williams currently directly or indirectly owns (i) 100% of the General Partner, which allows it to control the Partnership and to own the 2% general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in the Partnership, (ii) 100% of WGP, WES, and WGPGPC, and (iii) an approximate 21.57% limited partner interest in the Partnership. The conflicts committee of the board of directors of the General Partner recommended approval of the Partnership's acquisition of the Contributed Entities. The conflicts committee retained independent legal and financial advisors to assist it in evaluating and negotiating the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement. In recommending approval of such transactions, the conflicts committee based its decision in part on an opinion from the committee's independent financial advisor that the consideration to be paid by the Partnership in each of the Contribution Agreement and the initial making of the WMZ Exchange Offer is fair, from a financial point of view, to the Partnership.
     The foregoing description of the Contribution Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby and of the exhibits to the Contribution Agreement are not complete and are subject to and qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such agreements. A copy of the Contribution Agreement, including the exhibits thereto, is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. The Contribution Agreement, including the exhibits thereto, is included as an exhibit to this Form 8-K to provide investors with information regarding its terms. It is not intended to provide any other factual information about Williams or the other parties to the Contribution Agreement or the other agreements attached as exhibits or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates. The representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Contribution Agreement or the other agreements attached as exhibits thereto were or will be made only for the purposes of such agreements and as of a specific date, were or will be solely for the benefit of the parties to such agreements, may be subject to limitations agreed upon by the contracting parties, including being qualified by disclosure schedules made for the purposes of allocating contractual risk between the parties thereto instead of establishing these matters as facts, and may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to the contracting parties that differ from those applicable to investors. Investors should not rely on the representations, warranties and covenants or any descriptions thereof as characterizations of the actual state of facts or conditions of Williams or the other parties to the Contribution Agreement or the other agreements attached as exhibits thereto or any of their respective subsidiaries and affiliates. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations, warranties and covenants may change after the date of the Contribution Agreement or the other agreements attached as exhibits thereto, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in William's public disclosures.
     On January 19, 2010, Williams and the Partnership issued a joint press release announcing (i) the entry into the Contribution Agreement, (ii) the commencement by Williams of a tender offer to purchase up to $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Williams' outstanding debt securities and consent solicitations to amend certain provisions of the indentures pursuant to which such debt securities were issued, (iii) that the Partnership will offer the Debt Securities in a private placement to be conducted pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, (iv) that the Partnership will terminate its existing credit facility and establish a new $1.5 billion credit facility, (collectively, the "Restructuring Transactions") and (v) that following the completion of the Restructuring Transactions, the Partnership intends to commence an exchange offer for the outstanding publicly traded common units of WMZ (the "WMZ Exchange Offer"). Closing of the Restructuring Transactions is subject to regulatory approvals and other conditions and is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2010. Williams also issued on January 19, 2010, a separate press release announcing the terms of its $3.0 billion debt tender offer and consent solicitation. Copies of the press releases are furnished and attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.5 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
     On January 19, 2010, Williams announced that it will discuss the Restructuring Transactions during a live webcast beginning at 10 a.m. (EST) on January 19, 2010. The webcast will be accessible at www.williams.com and www.williamslp.com, and slides to be used in connection with the webcast and at meetings with investors are available for viewing, downloading and printing on both websites and are furnished and attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference.
     The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
     In connection with the Restructuring Transactions, (i) the Contributed Entities' audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 and unaudited financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, and (ii) unaudited pro forma financial statements as of September 30, 2009 and for the year ended December 31, 2008 and nine months ended September 30, 2009 for Williams that reflect the closing of the Restructuring Transactions are attached as Exhibits 99.3 and 99.4 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     (d) 
Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: January 19, 2010
 

Execution Version
 
 
 
 
: Disclosure Schedule 2.3(c) Disclosure Schedule 3.3 Disclosure Schedule 3.4(a) Disclosure Schedule 3.4(b) Disclosure Schedule 3.6(a) Disclosure Schedule 3.6(b) Disclosure Schedule 3.8(c) Disclosure Schedule 3.9 Disclosure Schedule 3.10 Disclosure Schedule 3.14 Disclosure Schedule 3.15 Disclosure Schedule 3.16(a) Disclosure Schedule 3.18 Disclosure Schedule 3.19 Disclosure Schedule 3.22 Disclosure Schedule 5.1(b)
Prepared by the Contributing Parties
: Disclosure Schedule 4.4
Prepared by the Partnership Parties
 
This Contribution Agreement (this "") is made and entered into as of January 15, 2010, by and among Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), Williams Energy Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), WGP Gulfstream Pipeline Company, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (""), Williams Partners GP LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and the general partner of the Partnership (the "" and together with WGP, WES and WGPGPC, the ""), Williams Partners L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), and Williams Partners Operating LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "," and together with the Partnership, the ""), and solely with respect to , The Williams Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
WGP
WES
WGPGPC
General Partner
Contributing Parties
Partnership
Operating Company
Partnership Parties
Section 9.11
Williams
WHEREAS, prior to the Closing Date, various of the Contributing Parties will be the sole members and owners of all the membership interests in:
Marsh Resources, LLC; Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC; WGP Development, LLC; WGPC Holdings LLC; Williams Field Services Group, LLC; Williams Pacific Connector Gas Operator, LLC; Williams Pipeline GP LLC; and Williams Pipeline Services LLC;
each of which is a Delaware limited liability company and all of which are collectively referred to as the "."
Wholly Owned Entities
WHEREAS, prior to the Closing Date, various of the Contributing Parties will be a member or partner of the following entities and owner of the following membership or limited partner interests:
each of which is a Delaware entity and all of which are collectively referred to as the "."
Partially Owned Entities
WHEREAS, the Contributing Parties desire to contribute all of their membership interests and limited partner interest in the Wholly Owned Entities, Pacific Connector Gas Pipeline, LLC and Pacific Connector Gas Pipeline, LP and a 24.5% membership interest in Gulfstream
 
(collectively, the "") to the Partnership pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the CCA Agreement in return for the payment and issuance of the Aggregate Consideration, and the Partnership desires to receive all of such Contributed Interests in exchange for the payment and issuance of the Aggregate Consideration in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the CCA Agreement.
Contributed Interests
WHEREAS, promptly following the entry into this Agreement, the Partnership will publicly announce its intention to (i) make the WMZ Offer and (ii) increase the amount of the quarterly distribution paid in respect of the Partnership Interests (as defined in the Partnership Agreement) after the Closing as a result of the Transaction.
WHEREAS, promptly following the entry into this Agreement, Williams will publicly announce its intention to commence the Williams Debt Tender.
WHEREAS, the Conflicts Committee has previously (i) received an opinion of Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. Securities, Inc., the financial advisor to the Conflicts Committee, that the consideration to be paid pursuant to the Transaction is fair to the Partnership from a financial point of view and (ii) found the Transaction to be fair and reasonable to the Partnership and recommended that the board of directors of the General Partner (the "") approve the Transaction.
Board of Directors
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the respective representations, warranties, covenants, agreements and conditions contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.1 .
Definitions
The respective terms defined in this shall, when used in this Agreement, have the respective meanings specified herein, with each such definition equally applicable to both singular and plural forms of the terms so defined:
Section 1.1
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
2009 Transferred Businesses Financial Statements
Section 5.7
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Accounting Firm
Section 2.5(b)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Actual Expenses
Section 2.4(a)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Additional General Partner Units
Section 2.2(a)(iii)
 
"" means the dollar amount equal to (a) 2/98ths of the product of the Issue Price times the aggregate number of Class C Units issued in the Private Equity Placement, minus (b) the GP Closing Quarter Distribution Reduction Amount.
Additional GP Interest
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Adjustment Period
Section 2.6(a)(i)
"" when used with respect to a Person, means any other Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such first Person; , , that (i) with respect to the Contributing Parties, the term "Affiliate" shall exclude each of the Partnership Parties, (ii) with respect to the Partnership Parties, the term "Affiliate" shall exclude each of the Contributing Parties and (iii) the Contributed Entities shall be deemed to be "Affiliates" (x) prior to the Closing, of the Contributing Parties and (y) on and after the Closing, of the Partnership Parties. No Person shall be deemed an Affiliate of any Person solely by reason of the exercise or existence of rights, interests or remedies under this Agreement.
Affiliate
provided
however
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Aggregate Consideration
Section 2.2(a)
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Agreement
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Amended Partnership Agreement
Section 2.2(b)
"" means each of the CCA Agreement, the Services Agreements, the Omnibus Agreement and the Limited Call Right Forbearance Agreement.
Ancillary Agreements
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Applicable Law
Section 3.3(a)
"" means, with respect to Taxes imposed on, incurred by or attributable to, or Damages suffered by, incurred by or attributable to, (i) an entity listed on , (ii) the Transferred Assets attributable to such entity or (iii) the portion of the Transferred Businesses associated with such entity, the percentage listed next to such entity's name.
Applicable Ownership Percentage
Exhibit A
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Associated Employees
Section 3.16(a)
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the recitals.
Board of Directors
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Cash Consideration
Section 2.2(a)(i)
"" means the Conveyance, Contribution and Assumption Agreement substantially in the form of hereto.
CCA Agreement
Exhibit F
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Ceiling Amount
Section 9.10(a)
"" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act.
CERCLA
 
"" means the amount equal to (a) the aggregate amount that would be distributable by the Partnership with respect to the Class C Units issued in the Private Equity Placement for the calendar quarter in which the Closing Date occurs if the Closing Date had occurred on the first day of such calendar quarter, minus (b) the aggregate amount actually distributable by the Partnership with respect to the Class C Units issued in the Private Equity Placement for the calendar quarter in which the Closing Date occurs.
Class C Closing Quarter Distribution Reduction Amount
"" means the Class C units representing limited partner interests in the Partnership.
Class C Units
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Closing
Section 2.3(a)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Closing Date
Section 2.3(a)
"" means the Contributing Parties Closing Documents and the Partnership Parties Closing Documents.
Closing Documents
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" means the common units representing limited partner interests in the Partnership.
Common Units
"" means the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors.
Conflicts Committee
"" means the Wholly Owned Entities and the Partially Owned Entities and, if the context so requires, their respective predecessors.
Contributed Companies
"" means the Contributed Companies and the Contributed Subsidiaries.
Contributed Entities
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the recitals.
Contributed Interests
"" means the direct or indirect subsidiaries of the Contributed Companies set out next to such Contributed Companies' names on and, if the context so requires, their respective predecessors.
Contributed Subsidiaries
Disclosure Schedule 3.4(b)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Contributing Indemnified Parties
Section 9.2
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Contributing Parties
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Contributing Parties Aggregated Group
Section 3.16(d)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Contributing Parties Closing Certificates
Section 6.1(a)
"" means the Ancillary Agreements as executed by the Contributing Parties and their Affiliates, as applicable, and the Contributing Parties Closing Certificates.
Contributing Parties Closing Documents
 
"" and its derivatives, mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
control
"" means liabilities and obligations, including all losses, deficiencies, costs, expenses, fines, interest, expenditures, claims, suits, proceedings, judgments, damages, and reasonable attorneys' fees and reasonable expenses of investigating, defending and prosecuting litigation; , , that with respect to any liabilities or obligations suffered or incurred by, or attributable to, a Contributed Entity, the Partnership Indemnified Parties shall only be deemed to have suffered or incurred liabilities or obligations to the extent of the product of the Applicable Ownership Percentage and the total amount of such liabilities and obligations suffered or incurred by, or attributable to, such Contributed Entity.
Damages
provided
however
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Deductible Amount
Section 9.10(a)
"" means the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, as amended.
Delaware LLC Act
"" means the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, as amended.
Delaware LP Act
"" means, without limitation, the following laws, in effect as of the Closing Date, as amended: (i) the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; (ii) the Clean Air Act; (iii) CERCLA; (iv) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; (v) the Safe Drinking Water Act; (vi) the Toxic Substances Control Act; (vii) the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to Know Act; (viii) the National Environmental Policy Act; (ix) the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990; (x) the Oil Pollution Act of 1990; (xi) the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act; (xii) the Occupational Safety and Health Act; and (xiii) all laws, statutes, rules, regulations, orders, judgments, decrees promulgated or issued with respect to the foregoing Environmental Laws by Governmental Authorities with jurisdiction in the premises and any other federal, state or local statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, orders, codes, decisions, injunctions or decrees that regulate or otherwise pertain to the protection of human health, safety or the environment, including but not limited to the management, control, discharge, emission, treatment, containment, handling, removal, use, generation, permitting, migration, storage, release, transportation, disposal, remediation, manufacture, processing or distribution of Hazardous Materials that are or may present a threat to human health or the environment.
Environmental Laws
"" shall mean the Class C Units and the Additional General Partner Units to be issued pursuant to .
Equity Consideration
Section 2.2
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
ERISA
Section 3.16(b)
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Estimated Expenses
Section 2.3(b)
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means all expenses listed on hereto.
Expenses
Exhibit B
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Financial Statements
Section 3.6(a)
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
General Partner
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Partnership Agreement.
General Partner Units
"" means the amount equal to (a) the aggregate amount that would be distributable by the Partnership with respect to the Additional General Partner Units for the calendar quarter in which the Closing Date occurs if the Closing Date had occurred on the first day of such calendar quarter, minus (b) the aggregate amount actually distributable by the Partnership with respect to the Additional General Partner Units for the calendar quarter in which the Closing Date occurs.
GP Closing Quarter Distribution Reduction Amount
"" means any federal, state, municipal or other government, governmental court, department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality.
Governmental Authority
has the meaning ascribed to such term in the recitals.
"Gulfstream"
"" means any substance, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous: (i) which is listed, defined, or regulated as a "hazardous material," "hazardous waste," "solid waste," "hazardous substance," "toxic substance," "pollutant," or "contaminant," or words of similar meaning or import found in any applicable Environmental Law; or (ii) which is or contains asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, explosives, or radioactive materials; or (iii) any petroleum, petroleum hydrocarbons, petroleum substances, petroleum or petrochemical products, natural gas, crude oil and any components, fractions, or derivatives thereof, any oil or gas exploration or production waste, and any natural gas, synthetic gas and any mixtures thereof; or (iv) radioactive material, waste and pollutants, radiation, radionuclides and their progeny, or nuclear waste including used nuclear fuel; or (v) which causes or poses a threat to cause contamination or nuisance on any properties, or any adjacent property or a hazard to the environment or to the health or safety of persons on or about any properties.
Hazardous Materials
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
HSR Act
Section 3.3(b)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Indemnity Claim
Section 9.5
"" means all intellectual or industrial property and rights therein, however denominated, throughout the world, whether or not registered, including all patent applications, patents, trademarks, service marks, trade styles or dress, mask works, copyrights (including copyrights in computer programs, software, computer code, documentation, drawings, specifications and data), works of authorship, moral rights of authorship, rights in designs, trade secrets, technology, inventions, invention disclosures, discoveries, improvements, know-how, proprietary rights, formulae, processes, methods, technical and business information, and confidential and proprietary information, and all other intellectual and industrial property rights, whether or not subject to statutory registration or protection and, with respect to each of the foregoing, all registrations and applications for registration, renewals, extensions, continuations,
Intellectual Property
 
reexaminations, reissues, divisionals, improvements, modifications, derivative works, goodwill, and common law rights, and causes of action relating to any of the foregoing.
"" means the volume weighted average closing price of a Common Unit on the NYSE for the 10-day trading period ending on the third (3) business day prior to the Closing Date.
Issue Price
rd
"", as used in this Agreement with respect to a party hereof, means the actual knowledge of that party's designated personnel, after reasonable inquiry. The designated personnel for the Contributing Parties are Alan Armstrong, Don Chappel, Mac Hummel, Robert Cronk, Craig Rainey, Tom Sell, Rory Miller, Randy Newcomer, Phil Wright, Rick Rodekohr, Randy Conklin, Frank Ferazzi, Rodney Sailor, Ted Timmermans, Allison Bridges and Randy Barnard. The designated personnel for the Partnership Parties are Alan Armstrong, Don Chappel, Mac Hummel, Rory Miller, Randy Newcomer, Robert Cronk, John Porter, Craig Rainey and Tom Sell.
Knowledge
"" means any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, security interest, pledge, conditional sales contract, charge or encumbrance.
Lien
"" means the Limited Call Right Forbearance Agreement substantially in the form of hereto.
Limited Call Right Forbearance Agreement
Exhibit G
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Material Contract
Section 3.15(a)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Minimum Claim Amount
Section 9.10(a)
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Net Accumulated Cash Flow
Section 2.6(a)(ii)
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Net Accumulated Cash Flow Statement
Section 2.6(a)
"" means the $1.5 billion underwritten Credit Agreement to be entered into by the Partnership on or prior to the Closing and any successor facility thereto.
New Credit Facility
"" means natural gas liquids.
NGL
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Notice
Section 10.2
"" means Northwest Pipeline GP, a Delaware general partnership.
NWP
"" means the New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE
"" means the Omnibus Agreement substantially in the form of hereto.
Omnibus Agreement
Exhibit H
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Operating Company
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the recitals.
Partially Owned Entities
 
"" means a subsidiary of a Contributed Company that is not wholly owned by such Contributed Company.
Partially Owned Subsidiary
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Partnership
"" means the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated August 23, 2005, as amended from time to time.
Partnership Agreement
"" means Amendment No. 6 to the Partnership Agreement substantially in the form of hereto.
Partnership Agreement Amendment
Exhibit I
"" means one or more of the following financing transactions that closes on or prior to the Closing Date: the Rule 144A Offering and designated borrowings, if any, by the Partnership under the New Credit Facility.
Partnership Financing Transactions
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Partnership Indemnified Parties
Section 9.1
"" means a material adverse effect on or material adverse change in the ability of either Partnership Party to perform its obligations under this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements.
Partnership Material Adverse Effect
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Partnership Parties
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Partnership Parties Closing Certificates
Section 6.2(a)
"" means the Ancillary Agreements as executed by the Partnership Parties and the Partnership Parties Closing Certificates.
Partnership Parties Closing Documents
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Permits
Section 3.14
"" means all: (i) mechanics', materialmen's, carriers', workmen's, repairmen's, vendors', operators' or other like Liens, if any, that do not materially detract from the value of or materially interfere with the use of any of the Transferred Assets subject thereto; (ii) Liens arising under original purchase price conditional sales contracts and equipment leases with third parties entered into in the ordinary course of business; (iii) title defects or Liens (other than those constituting Liens for the payment of indebtedness), if any, that, individually or in the aggregate, do not or would not impair in any material respect the use or occupancy of the Transferred Assets, taken as a whole; (iv) Liens for Taxes that are not due and payable or that may thereafter be paid without penalty; and (v) Liens supporting surety bonds, performance bonds and similar obligations issued in connection with the Transferred Business.
Permitted Liens
"" means an individual or entity, including any partnership, corporation, association, trust, limited liability company, joint venture, unincorporated organization or other entity or Governmental Authority.
Person
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Plans
Section 3.16(b)
 
"" means the issuance of 203,000,000 Class C Units by the Partnership to one or more of the Contributing Parties as part of the Aggregate Consideration pursuant to .
Private Equity Placement
Section 2.2(a)
"" means the assets and liabilities described on .
Retained Assets and Liabilities
Exhibit C
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Rights-of-Way
Section 3.8(b)
"" means the Partnership's private placement of an aggregate of up to $3.5 billion in principal amount of debt securities to initial purchasers who may resell them pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, the net proceeds of which are to be used to provide all or a portion of the Cash Consideration.
Rule 144A Offering
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Section 3.5(c)
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
SEC Reports
Section 3.5(a)
" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"Securities Act
"" means (i) the agreement to be entered into as of the Closing Date between Williams and/or one or more of its Affiliates, on the one hand, and Transco, on the other hand, relating to the services to be provided by employees of Williams and/or its Affiliates and the amount payable by Transco to Williams and/or its Affiliates for such services, substantially in the form attached as hereto, (ii) the secondment agreement to be entered into as of the Closing Date between Williams and/or one or more of its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Partnership and the General Partner, on the other hand, substantially in the form attached as hereto and (iii) the Administrative Services Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2007, between Northwest Pipeline Services LLC and NWP.
Services Agreements
Exhibit J
Exhibit K
"" means all taxes, however denominated, including any interest, penalties or other additions to tax that may become payable in respect thereof, imposed by any Governmental Authority, which taxes shall include, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all income or profits taxes (including, but not limited to, federal income taxes and state income taxes), gross receipts taxes, net proceeds taxes, alternative or add-on minimum taxes, sales taxes, use taxes, real property gains or transfer taxes, ad valorem taxes, property taxes, value-added taxes, franchise taxes, production taxes, severance taxes, windfall profit taxes, withholding taxes, payroll taxes, employment taxes, excise taxes and other obligations of the same or similar nature to any of the foregoing.
Tax
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Tax Items
Section 7.2(a)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Tax Losses
Section 7.1(a)
"" means all reports, estimates, declarations of estimated Tax, information statements and returns relating to, or required to be filed in connection with, any Taxes,
Tax Return
 
including information returns or reports with respect to backup withholding and other payments to third parties.
"" means, with respect to any Tax, the Governmental Authority that imposes such Tax, and the agency (if any) charged with the collection of such Tax for such entity or subdivision, including any governmental or quasi-governmental entity or agency that imposes, or is charged with collecting, social security or similar charges or premiums.
Taxing Authority
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Title IV Plan
Section 3.16(e)
"" means the contribution of the Contributed Interests in exchange for the Aggregate Consideration and the initial making by the Partnership of the WMZ Offer.
Transaction
"" means Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Transco
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Transfer Taxes
Section 7.4
"" means the assets owned on the Closing Date by the Contributed Entities, taken as a whole.
Transferred Assets
"" means the businesses conducted or operated as of the Closing Date by the Contributed Entities using any of the Transferred Assets, taken as a whole, including the associated liabilities.
Transferred Businesses
"" means a material adverse effect on or material adverse change in (i) the business, assets, liabilities, properties, financial condition or results of operations of Transferred Businesses, other than any effect or change (x) in the natural gas gathering, processing, treating, transportation and storage industries generally and NGL marketing industry generally (including any change in the prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids or other hydrocarbon products, industry margins or any regulatory changes or changes in Applicable Law) or (y) in United States or global economic conditions or financial markets in general; , that in the case of clauses (x) and (y) the impact on the Transferred Businesses is not materially disproportionate to the impact on similarly situated parties, or (ii) the ability of any of Williams and the Contributing Parties to perform their obligations under this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements.
Transferred Businesses Material Adverse Effect
provided
has the meaning ascribed to such term in the recitals.
"Wholly Owned Entities"
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Williams
"" means the tender offer by Williams for not less than $3.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of the following debt securities of Williams commenced on or shortly after the date of this Agreement: 8.75% Senior Notes due 2020, 7.7% Debentures due 2027, 7.125% Notes due 2011, 8.125% Notes due 2012, 7.625% Notes due 2019, 7.875% Notes due 2021, 7.50% Debentures due 2031, 7.75% Notes due 2031 and 8.75% Notes due 2032.
Williams Debt Tender
 
"" means the affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of Section 1504 of the Code which files a consolidated federal income Tax Return and as to which Williams is the common parent, and, in the case of any combined or unitary Tax Return, the group of corporations filing such Tax Return that includes the Wholly Owned Entities.
Williams Tax Group
"" means Williams Pipeline Partners L.P., a Delaware limited partnership.
WMZ
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
WMZ Assets
Section 3.7
"" means an exchange offer by the Partnership to acquire any and all common units of WMZ held by the public unitholders of WMZ at a fixed exchange ratio of 0.7584 Common Units for each such common unit of WMZ.
WMZ Offer
"" means the First Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of WMZ, dated January 24, 2008, as amended from time to time.
WMZ Partnership Agreement
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Working Capital Amount
Section 2.5(a)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Working Capital Effective Time
Section 2.5(a)
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Working Capital Statement
Section 2.5(a)
"" means an amount determined utilizing the general ledger accounts indentified on, and calculated in accordance with, , which for a closing in February 2010 would be $233,874,000, which for a closing in March 2010 would be $212,025,000 and which for a closing in April 2010 would be $224,885,000.
Working Capital Target
Exhibit D
1.2 .
Construction
In constructing this Agreement: (a) the word "includes" and its derivatives means "includes, without limitation" and corresponding derivative expressions; (b) the currency amounts referred to herein, unless otherwise specified, are in United States dollars; (c) whenever this Agreement refers to a number of days, such number shall refer to calendar days unless business days are specified; (d) unless otherwise specified, all references in this Agreement to "Article," "Section," "Disclosure Schedule," "Exhibit," "preamble" or "recitals" shall be references to an Article, Section, Disclosure Schedule, Exhibit, preamble or recitals hereto; and (e) whenever the context requires, the words used in this Agreement shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter and singular and the plural.
2.1 .
Conveyance
Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the CCA Agreement, on the Closing Date, the Contributing Parties shall sell, grant, contribute, transfer, assign, and convey the Contributed Interests to the Partnership, the Partnership shall acquire the
 
Contributed Interests from the Contributing Parties and the Partnership shall further grant, contribute, transfer, assign and convey the Contributed Interests to the Operating Company.
2.2 .
Consideration
2.3 .
Closing and Closing Deliveries
 
 
2.4 .
True-Up of Expenses
2.5 .
Working Capital Adjustment
 
 
2.6 .
Net Accumulated Cash Flow Adjustment
 
 
The Contributing Parties hereby represent and warrant to the Partnership Parties as follows:
3.1 Organization.
 
3.2 .
Authority and Approval
 
3.3 .
No Conflict; Consents
Except as set forth on :
Disclosure Schedule 3.3
 
3.4 .
Capitalization; Title to Membership and Limited Partner Interests
 
 
3.5 .
SEC Documents; Internal Controls
 
3.6 .
Financial Statements; Undisclosed Liabilities
 
3.7 .
Contributed Interests
The Contributed Interests constitute all of Williams' directly or indirectly owned interests in natural gas gathering, processing, treating, transportation and storage businesses and NGL marketing business, other than the Retained Assets and Liabilities and those interests currently held by WMZ (the "") or the Partnership Parties. The assets necessary to conduct the Transferred Businesses as such businesses are conducted on the date of this Agreement will be included in the Transferred Assets or provided through the Services Agreements.
WMZ Assets
3.8 .
Real Property; Rights of Way
 
3.9 .
Litigation; Laws and Regulations
Except as set forth on and, with respect to any Partially Owned Entity or Partially Owned Subsidiary, to the Knowledge of the Contributing Parties:
Disclosure Schedule 3.9
3.10 .
No Adverse Changes
Except as set forth on or described in the Financial Statements (including the notes thereto), since September 30, 2009 and, with respect to any Partially Owned Entity or Partially Owned Subsidiary, to the Knowledge of the Contributing Parties:
Disclosure Schedule 3.10
 
3.11 .
Taxes
Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Transferred Businesses Material Adverse Effect and, with respect to any Partially Owned Entity or Partially Owned Subsidiary, to the Knowledge of the Contributing Parties, (i) all Tax Returns required to be filed by or with respect to the Contributed Entities, the Transferred Businesses or the Transferred Assets have been filed on a timely basis (taking into account all extensions of due dates); (ii) all Taxes owed by the Contributed Entities or the Contributing Parties or any of their Affiliates with respect to the Transferred Assets or the Transferred Businesses, which are or have become due, have been timely paid in full; (iii) there are no Liens on any of the Transferred Assets that arose in connection with any failure (or alleged failure) to pay any Tax on any of the Transferred Assets or the Transferred Businesses, other than Liens for Taxes not yet due and payable or the amount or validity of which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which an adequate reserve has been established therefor; and (iv) there is no pending action, proceeding or investigation for assessment or collection of Taxes and no Tax assessment, deficiency or adjustment has been asserted or proposed with respect to the Contributed Entities, the Transferred Businesses or the Transferred Assets.
3.12 .
Environmental Matters
Except as disclosed in , or as would not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Transferred Businesses Material Adverse Effect: (a) the Contributed Entities, the Transferred Businesses, the Transferred Assets and the Contributing Parties' operations relating thereto are in compliance with applicable Environmental Laws; (b) no circumstances exist with respect to the Contributed Entities, the Transferred Businesses, the Transferred Assets or the Contributing Parties' operations relating thereto that give rise to an obligation by any Contributing Party, Williams or any Contributed Entity to investigate, remediate, monitor or otherwise address the presence, on-site or offsite, of Hazardous Materials under any applicable Environmental Laws; (c) the Contributed Entities, the Transferred Assets, the Transferred Businesses and the Contributing Parties' operations related thereto are not subject to any pending or, to the Knowledge of the Contributing Parties, threatened, claim, action, suit, investigation, inquiry or proceeding under any Environmental
Disclosure Schedule 3.14
 
Law (including designation as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or any similar local or state law); (d) all notices, permits, permit exemptions, licenses or similar authorizations, if any, required to be obtained or filed by the Contributed Entities, with respect to the Transferred Assets or the Transferred Businesses, by any Contributing Party under any Environmental Law in connection with the Transferred Businesses, the Transferred Assets or the Contributing Parties' operations relating thereto have been duly obtained or filed and are valid and currently in effect and will be legally usable by, and in the process of ownership transfer to, the Contributed Entities at the time of the Closing or have been waived; (e) there has been no release of any Hazardous Material into the environment by the Contributed Entities, the Transferred Assets, or the Contributing Parties' operations relating thereto, except in compliance with applicable Environmental Law; and (f) there has been no exposure of any person or property to any Hazardous Material in connection with the operation of the Transferred Assets or the Contributing Parties' operations relating thereto.
3.13 .
Condition of Assets
The Transferred Assets have been maintained and repaired in the same manner as would a prudent operator of such assets, and are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used. The Transferred Assets are adequate to conduct the Transferred Businesses substantially in accordance with past practice.
3.14 .
Licenses; Permits
 
3.15
Contracts.
 
 
3.16 .
Employees and Employee Benefits
 
 
3.17 .
Labor Matters
There is no labor strike, or other material dispute, slowdown or stoppage pending or, to the Knowledge of the Contributing Parties, threatened against any Contributing Party, Contributed Entity or Williams with respect to any employee that will be providing services in connection with the Transferred Businesses and the Transferred Assets.
3.18 .
Transactions with Affiliates
Except as otherwise contemplated in this Agreement or as set forth on , none of the Contributed Entities is party to, and immediately after Closing will not be party to, any agreement, contract or arrangement between such Contributed Entity, on the one hand, and any of its Affiliates, on the other hand, other than (a) those entered into in the ordinary course of business relating to the provision of natural gas gathering, processing, treating, transportation and storage services and NGL marketing services or for the purchase of power, the purchase or sale of natural gas for fuel or system requirements or the purchase or sale of liquid products, in each case, on commercially reasonable terms and (b) those entered into for purposes of hedging future anticipated purchases or sales of commodities as authorized under the Williams Midstream Commodity Transaction Policy.
Disclosure Schedule 3.18
3.19 .
Insurance
Except as set forth in , the Transferred Assets are covered by, and immediately after the Closing will be, insured under, insurance policies underwritten by reputable insurers that include coverages and related limits and deductibles that are customary in the natural gas gathering, processing, treating, transportation and storage industries and NGL marketing industry and consistent with past practice. All such insurance policies are, and after Closing will continue, in full force and effect and all premiums due and payable on such policies have been paid. No notice of cancellation of, or indication of an intention not to renew, any such insurance policy has been received by any Contributing Party other than in the ordinary course of business.
Disclosure Schedule 3.19
3.20
Intellectual Property Rights.
Each Contributed Entity owns or has the right to use all Intellectual Property necessary for or used in the conduct of its business as currently conducted by the Transferred Businesses, and their products and services do not infringe upon, misappropriate or otherwise violate any
 
Intellectual Property of any third party. All Intellectual Property owned by any Contributed Entity is free and clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Liens). Neither the execution or delivery of this Agreement, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will, with or without notice or lapse of time, result in, or give any other Person the right or option to cause or declare, a breach or termination of, or cancellation or reduction in rights of any Contributed Entity under any contract providing for the license of any Intellectual Property to such Contributed Entity, except for any such terminations, cancellations or reductions that, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Transferred Businesses Material Adverse Effect. There is no Intellectual Property-related action, suit, proceeding, hearing, investigation, notice or complaint pending or threatened, by any third party before any court or tribunal (including, without limitation, the United States Patent and Trademark Office or equivalent authority anywhere in the world) relating to the Transferred Businesses, the Transferred Assets or the Contributed Entities' operations relating thereto, nor has any claim or demand been made by any third party that alleges any infringement, misappropriation, or violation of any Intellectual Property of any third party, or unfair competition or trade practices by any of the Contributed Entities. Except as would not result in a Transferred Businesses Material Adverse Effect, the Contributed Operating Entities have taken reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality of all material trade secrets.
3.21 .
Investment Company Act
None of the Contributing Parties, Williams nor the Contributed Entities is, nor immediately after the Closing will be, subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
3.22 .
Brokerage Arrangements
None of the Contributing Parties or Williams has entered (directly or indirectly) into any agreement with any Person that would obligate the Contributing Parties or Williams to pay any commission, brokerage or "finder's fee" or other similar fee in connection with this Agreement, the CCA Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, except as set forth on .
Disclosure Schedule 3.22
3.23 .
Liabilities Associated with Natural Gas Contracts
There has been no misallocation, calculation error, measurement problem or similar event relating to the performance by the Contributed Entities under any natural gas gathering, processing, treating, transportation or storage contract or NGL marketing contract that would give rise to a correcting adjustment under any such contract that would reasonably be expected to result in a liability to the Partnership Parties in excess of $37,500,000.
3.24 .
Books and Records
Accurate copies of the respective books of account, minute books, stock or other equity record books of each Contributing Party and each Contributed Entity have been made available for inspection to the Partnership Parties.
 
3.25 .
Investment Intent
The Contributing Parties have substantial experience in analyzing and investing in entities like the Partnership and are capable of evaluating the merits and risks of their investment in the Partnership. The Contributing Parties are acquiring the Equity Consideration solely for the purpose of investment and not with a view to, or for offer or sale in connection with, any distribution thereof in violation of the Securities Act or state securities laws. The Contributing Parties acknowledge that the Equity Consideration will not be registered under the Securities Act or any applicable state securities law, and that such Equity Consideration may not be transferred or sold except pursuant to the registration provisions of the Securities Act or pursuant to an applicable exemption therefrom and pursuant to state securities laws and regulations as applicable. The Contributing Parties acknowledge that each certificate representing the Equity Consideration shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY ACKNOWLEDGES FOR THE BENEFIT OF WILLIAMS PARTNERS L.P. THAT THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE SOLD, OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IF SUCH TRANSFER WOULD (A) VIOLATE THE THEN APPLICABLE FEDERAL OR STATE SECURITIES LAWS OR RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, ANY STATE SECURITIES COMMISSION OR ANY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY WITH JURISDICTION OVER SUCH TRANSFER, (B) TERMINATE THE EXISTENCE OR QUALIFICATION OF WILLIAMS PARTNERS L.P. UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, OR (C) CAUSE WILLIAMS PARTNERS L.P. TO BE TREATED AS AN ASSOCIATION TAXABLE AS A CORPORATION OR OTHERWISE TO BE TAXED AS AN ENTITY FOR FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES (TO THE EXTENT NOT ALREADY SO TREATED OR TAXED). WILLIAMS PARTNERS GP LLC, THE GENERAL PARTNER OF WILLIAMS PARTNERS L.P., MAY IMPOSE ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON THE TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IF IT RECEIVES AN OPINION OF COUNSEL THAT SUCH RESTRICTIONS ARE NECESSARY TO AVOID A SIGNIFICANT RISK OF WILLIAMS PARTNERS L.P. BECOMING TAXABLE AS A CORPORATION OR OTHERWISE BECOMING TAXABLE AS AN ENTITY FOR FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES. THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH ABOVE SHALL NOT PRECLUDE THE SETTLEMENT OF ANY TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING THIS SECURITY ENTERED INTO THROUGH THE FACILITIES OF ANY NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGE ON WHICH THIS SECURITY IS LISTED OR ADMITTED TO TRADING.
3.26 .
Waivers and Disclaimers
NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT AND THE CONTRIBUTING PARTIES CLOSING DOCUMENTS, EXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES AND OTHER COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS MADE BY THE CONTRIBUTING PARTIES IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE CONTRIBUTING PARTIES HAVE NOT MADE, DO NOT MAKE, AND SPECIFICALLY NEGATE AND DISCLAIM ANY REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES, PROMISES, COVENANTS, AGREEMENTS OR GUARANTIES OF ANY KIND OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR
 
STATUTORY, ORAL OR WRITTEN, PAST OR PRESENT REGARDING (A) THE VALUE, NATURE, QUALITY OR CONDITION OF THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE WATER, SOIL, GEOLOGY OR ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION OF THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS GENERALLY, INCLUDING THE PRESENCE OR LACK OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR OTHER MATTERS ON THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS, (B) THE INCOME TO BE DERIVED FROM THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS, (C) THE SUITABILITY OF THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS FOR ANY AND ALL ACTIVITIES AND USES THAT MAY BE CONDUCTED THEREON, (D) THE COMPLIANCE OF OR BY THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS OR THEIR OPERATION WITH ANY LAWS (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY ZONING, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, POLLUTION OR LAND USE LAWS, RULES, REGULATIONS, ORDERS OR REQUIREMENTS), OR (E) THE HABITABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY, MARKETABILITY, PROFITABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OF THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN THE CONTRIBUTING PARTIES CLOSING DOCUMENTS, NEITHER THE CONTRIBUTING PARTIES NOR ANY OF THEIR AFFILIATES SHALL BE LIABLE OR BOUND IN ANY MANNER BY ANY VERBAL OR WRITTEN STATEMENTS, REPRESENTATIONS OR INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE CONTRIBUTING PARTIES, THE TRANSFERRED BUSINESSES OR THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS FURNISHED BY ANY AGENT, EMPLOYEE, SERVANT OR THIRD PARTY. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS HAVE BEEN NEGOTIATED BY THE PARTIES AFTER DUE CONSIDERATION AND ARE INTENDED TO BE A COMPLETE EXCLUSION AND NEGATION OF ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, WITH RESPECT TO THE CONTRIBUTING PARTIES, THE CONTRIBUTED ENTITIES, THE TRANSFERRED BUSINESSES OR THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS THAT MAY ARISE PURSUANT TO ANY LAW NOW OR HEREAFTER IN EFFECT, OR OTHERWISE, EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT.
SECTION 3.26
The Partnership Parties hereby represent and warrant to the Contributing Parties as follows:
4.1 .
Organization and Existence
The Partnership is a limited partnership duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has all requisite limited partnership power and authority to own, operate and lease its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted. The Operating Company is a limited liability company duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has all requisite limited liability company power and authority to own, operate and lease its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted.
 
4.2 .
Authority and Approval
4.3 .
No Conflict; Consents
 
4.4 .
Brokerage Arrangements
Neither of the Partnership Parties has entered (directly or indirectly) into any agreement with any Person that would obligate the Partnership Parties or any of their Affiliates to pay any commission, brokerage or "finder's fee" or other similar fee in connection with this Agreement, the CCA Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, except as set forth on .
Disclosure Schedule 4.4
4.5 .
Litigation
There are no civil, criminal or administrative actions, suits, claims, hearings, arbitrations, investigations or proceedings pending or, or to the Partnership Parties' Knowledge, threatened
 
that (a) questions or involves the validity or enforceability of any of the Partnership Parties' obligations under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements or (b) seeks (or reasonably might be expected to seek) (i) to prevent or delay the consummation by the Partnership Parties of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements or (ii) damages in connection with any such consummation.
4.6 .
Valid Issuance; Listing
5.1 .
Operation of the Transferred Assets and Transferred Businesses
 
 
 
5.2 .
Access
The Contributing Parties shall afford the Partnership Parties and their authorized representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to management personnel and financial, title, tax, corporate and legal materials and operating data and information relating to the Contributed Entities, the Transferred Assets, and the Transferred Businesses and shall furnish to the Partnership Parties such other information as they may reasonably request, unless any such access and disclosure would violate the terms of any agreement to which the Contributing Parties or any of their Affiliates or any of the Contributed Entities is bound or any Applicable Law.
5.3 .
Cooperation; Further Assurances
 
5.4 .
New York Stock Exchange Approval
The Partnership will file a supplemental listing application with the NYSE to list the Common Units to be issued upon the conversion of the Class C Units to be issued in the Private Equity Placement and will use commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Common Units to be approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance.
5.5 .
Termination of Working Capital Agreement
The Partnership shall take all actions necessary to terminate the $20,000,000 Working Capital Loan Agreement, effective June 21, 2009, between Williams, as lender, and the Partnership, as borrower, with such termination to be effective on or before the Closing Date.
5.6 .
Continuation of Cash Management Program
All bank accounts of the Contributed Entities that participate in the Williams cash management program on the date hereof will continue to participate in such program and have cash swept
 
consistent with past practice by Williams until 11:59 p.m., Tulsa, Oklahoma time, on the last day of the month in which the Closing Date occurs.
5.7 .
Preparation of Transferred Businesses Financial Statements
The Contributing Parties shall deliver to the Partnership the audited statements of income (loss), comprehensive income (loss) and members' equity, and statements of cash flow for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 for the Transferred Businesses, including the notes thereto and the auditor's report thereon (the "") no later than the date the 2009 Transferred Businesses Financial Statements are required to be filed with the SEC. The 2009 Transferred Businesses Financial Statements (including the notes thereto) shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered thereby (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and shall present fairly in all material respects the financial condition of the Transferred Businesses as of such date and the results of operations of the Transferred Businesses for such period, except as otherwise noted therein.
2009 Transferred Businesses Financial Statements
5.8 .
Payment of Fee in Certain Circumstances
If all of the conditions set forth in , other than the condition in , have been satisfied and the Contributing Parties do not proceed with the Closing, the Contributing Parties shall pay to the Partnership in accordance with the percentages set forth on , by wire or interbank transfer of immediately available funds to an account specified in writing by the Partnership, the amount of $20,000,000, within five (5) business days from the date the Contributing Parties notify the Partnership Parties of such election to not proceed with the Closing.
Section 6.2
Section 6.2(e)
Exhibit E
6.1 .
Conditions to the Obligation of the Partnership Parties
The obligation of the Partnership Parties to proceed with the Closing contemplated hereby are subject to the satisfaction on or prior to the Closing Date of all of the following conditions, any one or more of which may be waived, in whole or in part, by the Partnership Parties:
 
 
6.2 .
Conditions to the Obligation of the Contributing Parties
The obligation of the Contributing Parties to proceed with the Closing contemplated hereby is subject to the satisfaction on or prior to the Closing Date of all of the following conditions, any one or more of which may be waived in writing, in whole or in part, by the Contributing Parties:
 
 
7.1 .
Liability for Taxes
 
 
7.2 .
Tax Returns
 
7.3 .
Tax Treatment of Indemnity Payments
All indemnification payments made under this Agreement, including any payment made under this , shall be treated as increases or decreases to the Cash Consideration for Tax purposes.
Article 7
7.4 .
Transfer Taxes
The Contributing Parties shall file all necessary Tax Returns and other documentation with respect to all transfer, documentary, sales, use, stamp, registration and other similar Taxes and fees arising out of or in connection with the transactions effected pursuant to this Agreement (the "") and shall be liable for and shall timely pay such Transfer Taxes. If required by applicable Law, the Partnership Parties shall, and shall cause their Affiliates to, join in the execution of any such Tax Returns and other documentation.
Transfer Taxes
7.5 .
Survival
Anything to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding, the representations, warranties, covenants, agreements, rights and obligations of the parties hereto with respect to any Tax matter covered by this Agreement shall survive the Closing and shall not terminate until the expiration of the applicable statutes of limitations (including all periods of extension and tolling) applicable to such Tax matter.
7.6 .
Conflict
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this and any other provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this shall control.
Article 7
Article 7
8.1 .
Events of Termination
This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing Date:
 
8.2 .
Effect of Termination
If a party terminates this Agreement as provided in above, such termination shall be without liability and none of the provisions of this Agreement shall remain effective or enforceable, except for those contained in this and . Notwithstanding and in addition to the foregoing, in the event that this Agreement is terminated pursuant to or if any party is otherwise in breach of this Agreement, (a) such breaching party or parties shall remain liable for its or their obligations under and/or , and (b) such termination shall not relieve such breaching party of any liability for a willful breach of any covenant or agreement under this Agreement or be deemed a waiver of any available remedy (including specific performance, if available) for any such breach.
Section 8.1
Section 8.2
Article 10
Section 8.1(c)
Article 7
Article 9
 
9.1 .
Indemnification of the Partnership Parties
Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, the Contributing Parties, from and after the Closing Date, shall indemnify, defend and hold the Partnership Parties, their subsidiaries (including the Contributed Entities) and their respective securityholders, directors, officers, and employees, and the officers, directors and employees of the General Partner, but otherwise excluding any of the Contributing Parties and their Affiliates (the "") harmless from and against any and all Damages suffered or incurred by any Partnership Indemnified Party as a result of or arising out of (i) any breach or inaccuracy of a representation or warranty of the Contributing Parties in this Agreement or any Contributing Parties Closing Document, (ii) any breach of any agreement or covenant on the part of the Contributing Parties made under this Agreement or any Contributing Parties Closing Document or in connection with the transaction contemplated hereby or thereby, or (iii) any breach or violation of any Environmental Laws by the Contributed Entities or relating to the Transferred Assets that occurs prior to Closing. For purposes of this Section 9.1, whether the Contributing Parties have breached any of their representations and warranties herein shall be determined without giving effect to any qualification as to "materiality" (including the word "material" or "Transferred Businesses Material Adverse Effect"). Furthermore, for purposes of this and , the Contributing Parties Closing Documents shall be deemed to exclude all Ancillary Agreements other than the CCA Agreement.
Partnership Indemnified Parties
Section 9.1
Section 9.11
9.2 .
Indemnification of the Contributing Parties
Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, the Partnership Parties shall indemnify, defend and hold the Contributing Parties, their Affiliates (other than any of the Partnership Indemnified Parties) and their respective securityholders, directors, officers, and employees (the "") harmless from and against any and all Damages suffered or incurred by the Contributing Indemnified Parties as a result of or arising out of (i) any breach or inaccuracy of a representation or warranty of the Partnership Parties in this Agreement or any Partnership Parties Closing Document or (ii) any breach of any agreement or covenant on the part of the Partnership Parties made under this Agreement or any Partnership Parties Closing Document or in connection with the transaction contemplated hereby or thereby. For purposes of this Section 9.2, whether the Partnership Parties have breached any of their representations and warranties herein shall be determined without giving effect to any qualification as to "materiality" (including the word "material" or "Partnership Material Adverse Effect"). Furthermore, for purposes of this and , the Partnership Parties Closing Documents shall be deemed to exclude all Ancillary Agreements other than the CCA Agreement.
Contributing Indemnified Parties
Section 9.2
Section 9.11
9.3 .
Tax Indemnification
With the exception of a breach or inaccuracy of the representations and warranties of the Contributing Parties contained in , nothing in this shall apply to liability with respect to Taxes, the liability with respect to which shall be as set forth in .
Section 3.11
Article 9
Article 7
 
9.4 .
Survival
All the provisions of this Agreement shall survive the Closing, notwithstanding any investigation at any time made by or on behalf of any party hereto, provided that the representations and warranties set forth in and and in any certificate delivered in connection herewith with respect to any of those representations and warranties shall terminate and expire on the first day of the 18 month following the month in which Closing occurs, except (a) the representations and warranties of the Contributing Parties set forth in shall survive until 30 days after the expiration of the applicable statutes of limitations (including all periods of extension and tolling), (b) the representations and warranties of the Contributing Parties set forth in , and shall terminate and expire on the third anniversary of the Closing Date, (c) the representations and warranties of the Contributing Parties set forth in , and shall survive forever and (d) the representations and warranties of the Partnership Parties set forth in and shall survive forever. After a representation and warranty has terminated and expired, no indemnification shall or may be sought pursuant to this on the basis of that representation and warranty by any Person who would have been entitled pursuant to this to indemnification on the basis of that representation and warranty prior to its termination and expiration, provided that in the case of each representation and warranty that shall terminate and expire as provided in this , no claim presented in writing for indemnification pursuant to this on the basis of that representation and warranty prior to its termination and expiration shall be affected in any way by that termination and expiration. The indemnification obligations under this or elsewhere in this Agreement shall apply regardless of whether any suit or action results solely or in part from the active, passive or concurrent negligence or strict liability of the indemnified party. The covenants and agreements entered into pursuant to this Agreement to be performed after the Closing shall survive the Closing.
Articles 3
4
th
Section 3.11
Section 3.7
Section 3.12
Section 3.16
Section 3.1
Section 3.2
Section 3.4
Section 4.1
Section 4.2
Article 9
Article 9
Section 9.4
Article 9
Article 9
9.5 .
Demands
Each indemnified party hereunder agrees that promptly upon its discovery of facts giving rise to a claim for indemnity under the provisions of this Agreement, including receipt by it of notice of any demand, assertion, claim, action or proceeding, judicial or otherwise, by any third party (such claims for indemnity involving third party claims being collectively referred to herein as the ""), with respect to any matter as to which it claims to be entitled to indemnity under the provisions of this Agreement, it will give prompt notice thereof in writing to the indemnifying party, together with a statement of such information respecting any of the foregoing as it shall have. Such notice shall include a formal demand for indemnification under this Agreement.
Indemnity Claim
If the indemnified party knowingly failed to notify the indemnifying party thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement in sufficient time to permit the indemnifying party or its counsel to defend against an Indemnity Claim and to make a timely response thereto, the indemnifying party's indemnity obligation relating to such Indemnity Claim shall be limited to the extent that such failure has actually prejudiced or damaged the indemnifying party with respect to that Indemnity Claim.
 
9.6 .
Right to Contest and Defend
The indemnifying party shall be entitled, at its cost and expense, to contest and defend by all appropriate legal proceedings any Indemnity Claim for which it is called upon to indemnify the indemnified party under the provisions of this Agreement; , that notice of the intention to so contest shall be delivered by the indemnifying party to the indemnified party within twenty (20) days from the date of receipt by the indemnifying party of notice by the indemnified party of the assertion of the Indemnity Claim. Any such contest may be conducted in the name and on behalf of the indemnifying party or the indemnified party as may be appropriate. Such contest shall be conducted by reputable counsel employed by the indemnifying party and not reasonably objected to by the indemnified party, but the indemnified party shall have the right but not the obligation to participate in such proceedings and to be represented by counsel of its own choosing at its sole cost and expense.
provided
The indemnifying party shall have full authority to determine all action to be taken with respect thereto; , , that the indemnifying party will not have the authority to subject the indemnified party to any obligation whatsoever, other than the performance of purely ministerial tasks or obligations not involving material expense or injunctive relief. If the indemnifying party does not elect to contest any such Indemnity Claim, the indemnifying party shall be bound by the result obtained with respect thereto by the indemnified party. If the indemnifying party assumes the defense of an Indemnity Claim, the indemnified party shall agree to any settlement, compromise or discharge of an Indemnity Claim that the indemnifying party may recommend and that by its terms obligates the indemnifying party to pay the full amount of the liability in connection with such Indemnity Claim, which releases the indemnified party completely in connection with such Indemnity Claim and which would not otherwise adversely affect the indemnified party as determined by the indemnified party in its sole discretion.
provided
however
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnifying party shall not be entitled to assume the defense of any Indemnity Claim (and shall be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel incurred by the indemnified party in defending such Indemnity Claim) if the Indemnity Claim seeks an order, injunction or other equitable relief or relief for other than money damages against the indemnified party which the indemnified party reasonably determines, after conferring with its outside counsel, cannot be separated from any related claim for money damages. If such equitable relief or other relief portion of the Indemnity Claim can be so separated from that for money damages, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to assume the defense of the portion relating to money damages.
9.7 .
Cooperation
If requested by the indemnifying party, the indemnified party agrees to cooperate with the indemnifying party and its counsel in contesting any Indemnity Claim that the indemnifying party elects to contest or, if appropriate, in making any counterclaim against the person asserting the Indemnity Claim, or any cross-complaint against any person, and the indemnifying party will reimburse the indemnified party for any expenses incurred by it in so cooperating. At no cost or expense to the indemnified party, the indemnifying party shall cooperate with the indemnified party and its counsel in contesting any Indemnity Claim.
 
9.8 .
Right to Participate
The indemnified party agrees to afford the indemnifying party and its counsel the opportunity to be present at, and to participate in, conferences with all Persons, including Governmental Authorities, asserting any Indemnity Claim against the indemnified party or conferences with representatives of or counsel for such Persons.
9.9 .
Payment of Damages
The indemnification required hereunder in respect of Indemnity Claims shall be made by periodic payments of the amount of Damages in connection therewith, within ten (10) days as and when reasonably specific bills are received by, or Damages are incurred and reasonable evidence thereof is delivered to, the indemnifying party. In calculating any amount to be paid by an indemnifying party by reason of the provisions of this Agreement, the amount shall be reduced by all insurance proceeds and any indemnification reimbursement proceeds received from third parties credited to or received by the indemnified party related to the Damages.
9.10 .
Limitations on Indemnification
 
9.11 .
Limited Williams Guarantee
For so long as the Contributing Parties have an indemnification obligation pursuant to this , Williams absolutely, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees the payment of any and all Damages owed to a Partnership Indemnified Party by the Contributing Parties to the extent that the Contributing Parties do not fulfill their obligations under this . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Williams' total aggregate potential liability with respect to this shall be $1,440,000,000.
Article 9
Article 9
Section 9.11
9.12 .
Sole Remedy
Should the Closing occur, no party shall have liability under this Agreement, any of the Closing Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby except as is provided in or this (other than claims or causes of action arising from intentional fraud).
Article 7
Article 9
10.1 .
Expenses
Except as otherwise provided herein and regardless of whether the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, each party shall pay its own expenses incident to this Agreement and all action taken in preparation for carrying this Agreement into effect.
10.2 .
Notices
Any notice, request, instruction, correspondence or other document to be given hereunder by any party hereto to another party hereto (herein collectively called "") shall be in writing and delivered in person or by courier service requiring acknowledgment of receipt of delivery or by telecopier, as follows:
Notice
If to the Contributing Parties, addressed to:
The Williams Companies, Inc. One Williams Center Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172-0172 Attention: General Counsel
 
Telecopy: (918) 573-5942
with a copy to:
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP 1801 California Street 42 Floor Denver, CO 80202 Attention: Richard M. Russo Telecopy: (303) 298-5907
nd
If to the Partnership Parties, addressed to:
Williams Partners L.P. One Williams Center Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172-0172 Attention: Chief Financial Officer Telecopy: (918) 573-0871
with copies to:
Williams Partners L.P. One Williams Center, Suite 4900 Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172-0172 Attention: General Counsel and Conflicts Committee Chair Telecopy: (918) 573-5942
and
Baker Botts L.L.P. 910 Louisiana Street Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Joshua Davidson Telecopy: (713) 229-2727
Notice given by personal delivery or courier service shall be effective upon actual receipt. Notice given by telecopier shall be confirmed by appropriate answer back and shall be effective upon actual receipt if received during the recipient's normal business hours, or at the beginning of the recipient's next business day after receipt if not received during the recipient's normal business hours. Any party may change any address to which Notice is to be given to it by giving Notice as provided above of such change of address.
10.3 .
Governing Law
This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of New York without reference to principles of conflicts of law.
 
10.4 .
Public Statements
The parties hereto shall consult with each other and no party shall issue any public announcement or statement with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby without the consent of the other party, unless the party desiring to make such announcement or statement, after seeking such consent from the other parties, obtains advice from legal counsel that a public announcement or statement is required by Applicable Law or stock exchange regulations.
10.5 .
Entire Agreement; Amendments and Waivers
10.6 .
Conflicting Provisions
This Agreement and the Closing Documents, read as a whole, set forth the parties' rights, responsibilities and liabilities with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. In the Agreement and the Closing Documents, and as between them, specific provisions prevail over general provisions. In the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Closing Documents, this Agreement shall control.
10.7 .
Binding Effect and Assignment
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective permitted successors and assigns, but neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, benefits or obligations hereunder shall be assigned or transferred, by operation of law or otherwise, by any party hereto without the prior written consent of each other party. Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to confer upon any person or entity other than the parties hereto and their respective permitted successors and assigns, any rights, benefits or obligations hereunder.
 
10.8
[Reserved]
10.9 .
Severability
If any provision of the Agreement is rendered or declared illegal or unenforceable by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by decree of a court of last resort, the Partnership Parties and the Contributing Parties shall promptly meet and negotiate substitute provisions for those rendered or declared illegal or unenforceable, but all of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
10.10 .
Interpretation
It is expressly agreed by the parties that neither this Agreement nor any of the Closing Documents shall be construed against any party, and no consideration shall be given or presumption made, on the basis of who drafted this Agreement, any Closing Document or any provision hereof or thereof or who supplied the form of this Agreement or any of the Closing Documents. Each party agrees that this Agreement has been purposefully drawn and correctly reflects its understanding of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and, therefore, waives the application of any law, regulation, holding or rule of construction providing that ambiguities in an agreement or other document will be construed against the party drafting such agreement or document.
10.11
Headings and Disclosure Schedules.
The headings of the several Articles and Sections herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. The Disclosure Schedules and the Exhibits referred to herein are attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, and unless the context expressly requires otherwise, the Disclosure Schedules and such Exhibits are incorporated in the definition of "."
Agreement
10.12 .
Multiple Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
10.13 .
Action by Partnership Parties
With respect to any action, notice, consent, approval or waiver that is required to be taken or given or that may be taken or given by the Partnership Parties prior to the Closing Date, such action, notice, consent, approval or waiver shall be taken or given by the Conflicts Committee on behalf of the Partnership Parties.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
The undersigned hereby agrees to be bound by the provisions of of this Agreement.
Section 9.11
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
EXHIBIT C
 
EXHIBIT D
 
EXHIBIT E
 
EXHIBIT F
 
     THIS CONVEYANCE, CONTRIBUTION AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "") dated February ___, 2010, is made and entered into by and among Williams Energy Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), WGP Gulfstream Pipeline Company, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (""), Williams Partners GP, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "" and, together with WES, WGP and WGPGPC, the ""), Williams Partners L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), and Williams Partners Operating LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Partnership (the ""). The above-named entities are sometimes referred to in this Agreement each as a "Party" and collectively as the "Parties." Certain capitalized terms used are defined in Article I hereof.
Agreement
WES
WGP
WGPGPC
General Partner
Contributing Parties
Partnership
Operating Company
     WHEREAS, the Contributing Parties desire to contribute to the Partnership membership interests and a limited partner interest in the Delaware limited liability companies and the Delaware limited partnership set forth below (collectively, the "") and to the extent of the percentages set forth below pursuant to the terms of the Contribution Agreement (as defined below) and this Agreement, the Partnership desires to transfer the Contributed Interests (as defined below) to the Operating Company pursuant to this Agreement and the Operating Company desires to accept all of the Contributed Interests in accordance with the terms of the Contribution Agreement and this Agreement and to be admitted as a member or a partner of each Contributed Company:
Contributed Companies
 
     All of such contributed membership interests and the limited partnership interest being hereinafter collectively referred to as the "".
Contributed Interests
     WHEREAS, in order to accomplish the objectives and purposes in the preceding recital, and to effect the intent of the Parties in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the following entities, all of which are Delaware limited liability companies unless otherwise noted, took the following actions prior to the date hereof:
     1. Williams Pipeline Services Company, a Delaware corporation, converted into Williams Pipeline Services LLC.
     2. Williams Energy Solutions, Inc., a Delaware corporation, converted into Williams Energy Solutions, LLC (""), The Williams Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), sold and conveyed its 100% membership interest in Solutions to WES, WES was admitted as the sole member of Solutions and TWC ceased to be a member of Solutions.
Solutions
TWC
     3. HI-BOL Pipeline Company and WFS-Pipeline Company, both Delaware corporations, converted into HI-BOL Pipeline LLC and WFS-Pipeline LLC, respectively.
     4. WFS Enterprises, Inc. and WFS Liquids Company, both Delaware corporations, and Black Marlin Pipeline Company, a Texas corporation, converted into WFS Enterprises LLC, WFS Liquids LLC and Black Marlin Pipeline LLC, respectively.
     5. Williams Midstream Natural Gas Liquids, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), sold and conveyed its 31.45% membership interest in Baton Rouge Fractionators LLC ("") to TWC, TWC was admitted as a member of BRF and Liquids ceased to be a member of BRF.
Liquids
BRF
     6. TWC sold and conveyed its 100% membership interest in Williams Mobile Bay Producer Services, L.L.C. ("") and its 31.45% membership interest in BRF to WES, WES was admitted as a member of Mobile Bay and BRF and TWC ceased to be a member of Mobile Bay and BRF.
Mobile Bay
     7. WES sold and conveyed its 100% membership interest in Solutions, Mobile Bay and Williams NGL Marketing, LLC and its 31.45% membership interest in BRF to Williams Field Services Group, LLC (""), WFS was admitted as a member of Solutions, Mobile Bay, Williams NGL Marketing, LLC and BRF and WES ceased to be a member of Solutions, Mobile Bay, Williams NGL Marketing, LLC and BRF.
WFS
     8. Williams Pacific Connector Gas Pipeline, LLC ("") sold and conveyed its entire member interest in Pacific Connector Gas Pipeline, LLC ("") and its entire limited partner interest in Pacific Connector Gas Pipeline, LP ("") to WGP, with each of such interests being a 29.98% or less interest, WGP was admitted as a member of Pacific Connector LLC and as a partner of Pacific Connector LP, and Williams Pacific Connector ceased to be a member of Pacific Connector LP and a partner of Pacific Connector LP.
Williams Pacific Connector
Pacific Connector LLC
Pacific Connector LP
 
     9. WES, WGP, WGPGPC, the General Partner, the Partnership, the Operating Company and, for a limited purpose, TWC, entered into that certain Contribution Agreement (the "") dated January 15, 2010, pursuant to which the Partnership will acquire the Contributed Interests from the Contributing Parties for the Aggregate Consideration (as defined below).
Contribution Agreement
     WHEREAS, in order to accomplish the objectives and purposes hereunder and to effect the intent of the Parties in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the following entities took the following actions prior to the date hereof:
     1. All intercompany demand notes associated with the TWC cash management program and reflected in general ledger accounts 1191, 1951 and 2641, between TWC and a Contributed Company or a subsidiary of a Contributed Company were satisfied in full to the extent of outstanding balances at 12:01 a.m., Tulsa, Oklahoma time, on the first day of the month in which the Closing Date occurs.
     2. To the extent that satisfaction in full of such demand notes resulted in a payment by TWC to a Contributed Company or a subsidiary of a Contributed Company, (i) such Contributed Company or subsidiary thereof authorized and made a dividend distribution in the same amount as was paid by TWC and (ii) a dividend distribution of such amount was further authorized and made as necessary until such amount was distributed to TWC (except, in the case of Northwest Pipeline GP, a Delaware general partnership (""), (a) NWP shall have authorized and made a dividend distribution to its equity holders in the same amount as was paid by TWC, (b) WGPC Holdings LLC shall have authorized and made a dividend distribution in the same amount as was received from NWP and (c) WGP shall have authorized and made a dividend distribution in the same amount as was received from WGPC Holdings LLC).
NWP
     WHEREAS, concurrently with the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, each of the following shall occur:
     1. The Contributing Parties will transfer the Contributed Interests to the Partnership.
     2. The Partnership will complete the sale of up to $3.5 billion in principal amount of its debt securities to initial purchasers who may resell such securities pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the net proceeds of which (the "") shall be deposited into a bank account maintained solely by the Partnership (the "").
Issuance Proceeds
Partnership Bank Account
     3. The Partnership shall borrow funds pursuant to the New Credit Facility in an amount equal to the amount, if any, by which $3.5 billion (less all Estimated Expenses) exceeds the Issuance Proceeds (the ""), and such Debt Proceeds shall be deposited into the Partnership Bank Account.
Debt Proceeds
     4. As consideration for the transfer of the Contributed Interests, the Partnership shall (i) pay cash in the amount of $3.5 billion minus the Estimated Expenses (the "") to the Contributing Parties according to their percentage interests set forth on to the Contribution Agreement, (ii) issue 203,000,000 Class C Units (the "") to the Contributing Parties in the amounts set forth on to the
Cash Consideration
Exhibit E
Equity Consideration
Exhibit E
 
Contribution Agreement (the "") and (iii) increase the capital account of the General Partner by an amount equal to the Additional GP Interest and issue a proportionate number of General Partner Units to the General Partner, each in consideration for a contribution to the Partnership on behalf of the General Partner of a portion of the Contributed Interests, with the aggregate of each form of consideration set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) being collectively referred to as the "." The Cash Consideration shall be paid from the Issuance Proceeds and the Debt Proceeds in the Partnership Bank Account.
Private Equity Placement
Aggregate Consideration
     5. The Partnership shall pay its transaction expenses associated with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and the Contributing Parties shall pay their transaction expenses associated with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
     6. The Partnership shall contribute the Contributed Interests to the Operating Company as a contribution to the capital of the Operating Company, the Operating Company shall be admitted as a member or partner of each Contributed Company and the applicable Contributing Party shall cease to be a member or partner of each Contributed Company.
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of their mutual undertakings and agreements set forth herein and in the Contribution Agreement, the Parties undertake and agree as follows:
     1.1 The following capitalized terms have the meanings given below.
Definitions.
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.4.
Additional General Partner Units
          "" means the dollar amount equal to (a) 2/98ths of the product of the Issue Price times the aggregate number of Class C Units issued in the Private Equity Placement, minus (b) the GP Closing Quarter Distribution Reduction Amount.
Additional GP Interest
          "" when used with respect to a person or entity, means any other person or entity that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such first person or entity; provided, however, that (a) with respect to the Contributing Parties, the term "Affiliate" shall exclude each of the Partnership and the Operating Company, (b) with respect to the Partnership and the Operating Company, the term "Affiliate" shall exclude each of the Contributing Parties and (c) the Contributed Companies shall be deemed to be "Affiliates" (i) prior to the Closing, of the Contributing Parties and (ii) on and after the Closing, of the Partnership and the Operating Company. No person or entity shall be deemed an Affiliate of any person or entity solely by reason of the exercise or existence of rights, interests or remedies under this Agreement.
Affiliate
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Aggregate Consideration
 
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Agreement
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
BRF
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Cash Consideration
          "" means the Class C units representing limited partner interests in the Partnership.
Class C Units
          "" means the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement.
Closing
          "" means the date of the Closing.
Closing Date
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Partnership Agreement.
Common Units
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Contributed Companies
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Contributed Interests
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Contribution Agreement
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Contributing Parties
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Debt Proceeds
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Equity Consideration
          "" means the aggregate amount of a good faith estimate of each component of the Expenses as of the Closing Date.
Estimated Expenses
          "" means all expenses listed on to the Contribution Agreement.
Expenses
Exhibit B
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
General Partner
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Partnership Agreement.
General Partner Units
          "" means the amount equal to the excess of (a) the aggregate amount that would be distributable by the Partnership with respect to the Additional General Partner Units for the calendar quarter in which the Closing Date occurs if the Closing Date had occurred on the first day of such calendar quarter, over (b) the aggregate amount actually distributable by the Partnership with respect to the Additional General Partner Units for the calendar quarter in which the Closing Date occurs.
GP Closing Quarter Distribution Reduction Amount
 
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Issuance Proceeds
          means the volume weighted average closing price of a Common Unit on the NYSE for the 10-day trading period ending on the third (3rd) business day prior to the Closing Date.
"
Issue Price
"
          "" means any and all laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations promulgated by a governmental authority, orders of a governmental authority, judicial decisions, decisions of arbitrators or determinations of any governmental authority or court.
Laws
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Mobile Bay
          "" means the $1.5 billion underwritten Credit Agreement to be entered into by the Partnership on or prior to the Closing and any successor facility thereto.
New Credit Facility
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
NWP
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Operating Company
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Pacific Connector LLC
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Pacific Connector LP
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Partnership
          "" means the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership, dated as of August 23, 2005, of the Partnership, as amended from time to time.
Partnership Agreement
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Partnership Bank Account
          "" and "" have the meanings assigned to such terms in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Party
Parties
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Private Equity Placement
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Solutions
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
TWC
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
WES
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
WGP
 
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
WGPGPC
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals.
Williams Pacific Connector
     2.1 The Contributing Parties hereby grant, contribute, transfer, assign and convey to the Partnership, its successors and assigns, for its and their own use forever, the Contributed Interests, and the Partnership hereby accepts the Contributed Interests. Notwithstanding any provision in the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act or the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act or the limited liability company agreement or limited partnership agreement of each Contributed Company, each Contributing Party shall remain a member or partner of each applicable Contributed Company until such Contributing Party ceases to be a member or partner thereof pursuant to Section 2.5.
Contribution by the Contributing Parties of the Contributed Interests to the Partnership.
     TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the Contributed Interests unto the Partnership, its successors and assigns, together with all and singular the rights and appurtenances thereto in anywise belonging, subject, however, to the terms and conditions stated in this Agreement and the Contribution Agreement, forever.
     2.2 The Parties acknowledge that the Partnership has paid to the Contributing Parties the Cash Consideration and has issued to the Contributing Parties the Equity Consideration. The Cash Consideration has been paid from the Issuance Proceeds and the Debt Proceeds. The Contributing Parties hereby acknowledge receipt of the Cash Consideration and the Equity Consideration.
Distribution of the Cash and Equity Consideration.
     2.3 The Parties acknowledge that the capital account of the General Partner has been increased by an amount equal to the amount of the Additional GP Interest in consideration for a contribution to the Partnership on behalf of the General Partner of a portion of the Contributed Interests corresponding to the number of General Partner Units described in Section 2.4.
Increase in Capital Account of the General Partner.
     2.4 The Parties acknowledge that the Partnership has issued 4,142,857 General Partner Units (which number of Units is equal to 2/98ths of the number of Class C Units issued in the Private Equity Placement) to the General Partner (the ""). The General Partner acknowledges the receipt of the Additional General Partner Units.
Issuance of General Partner Units.
Additional General Partner Units
     2.5 Immediately following the contribution of the Contributed Interests to the Partnership pursuant to Section 2.1, the Partnership hereby grants, contributes, transfers, assigns and conveys to the Operating Company, its successors and assigns, for its and their own use forever, the Contributed Interests, and the Operating Company hereby accepts the Contributed Interests from the Partnership as a contribution by the Partnership to the capital of
Contribution by the Partnership of the Contributed Interests to the Operating Company.
 
the Operating Company. The Operating Company hereby agrees that it is bound by the limited liability company agreement or limited partnership agreement of each Contributed Company. Notwithstanding any provision in the limited liability company agreement or limited partnership agreement of each Contributed Company, the Operating Company is hereby admitted as a member or partner of each Contributed Company simultaneously with its receipt of the Contributed Interests. Immediately thereafter, each Contributing Party shall cease to be a member or partner of each Contributed Company, as applicable. The Parties agree that the Operating Company's admission as a member or partner of each Contributed Company shall not dissolve the Contributed Companies and each Contributed Company shall continue without dissolution.
     TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the Contributed Interests unto the Operating Company, its successors and assigns, together with all and singular the rights and appurtenances thereto in anywise belonging, subject, however, to the terms and conditions stated in this Agreement, forever.
     3.1 From time to time after the date hereof, and without any further consideration, the Parties agree to execute, acknowledge and deliver all such additional deeds, assignments, bills of sale, conveyances, instruments, notices, releases, acquittances and other documents, and will do all such other acts and things, all in accordance with applicable law, as may be necessary or appropriate (a) more fully to assure that the applicable Parties own all of the properties, rights, titles, interests, estates, remedies, powers and privileges granted by this Agreement, or which are intended to be so granted and (b) more fully and effectively to vest in the applicable Parties and their respective successors and assigns beneficial and record title to the interests contributed and assigned by this Agreement or intended so to be.
Further Assurances.
     3.2 From time to time after the date hereof, and without any further consideration, each of the Parties shall execute, acknowledge and deliver all such additional instruments, notices and other documents, and will do all such other acts and things, all in accordance with applicable law, as may be necessary or appropriate to more fully and effectively carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement. It is the express intent of the Parties that the Operating Company own the Contributed Interests that are identified in this Agreement, that the Operating Company is admitted as a member or partner of each Contributed Company, that each Contributing Party ceases to be a member or partner of each applicable Contributed Company and that the contributions contemplated hereby do not cause the dissolution of any Contributed Company.
Other Assurances.
     4.1 The Operating Company shall pay all sales, use and similar taxes arising out of the contributions, conveyances and deliveries to be made hereunder, and shall pay all documentary, filing, recording, transfer, deed and conveyance taxes and fees required in connection therewith.
Costs.
 
     4.2 All Article and Section headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof. The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import, when used in this Agreement, shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. All references herein to Articles, Sections and Schedules shall, unless the context requires a different construction, be deemed to be references to the Articles and Sections of, and Schedules to, this Agreement, respectively. All personal pronouns used in this Agreement, whether used in the masculine, feminine or neuter gender, shall include all other genders, and the singular shall include the plural and vice versa. The use herein of the word "including" following any general statement, term or matter shall not be construed to limit such statement, term or matter to the specific items or matters set forth immediately following such word or to similar items or matters, whether or not non-limiting language (such as "without limitation," "but not limited to," or words of similar import) is used with reference thereto, but rather shall be deemed to refer to all other items or matters that could reasonably fall within the broadest possible scope of such general statement, term or matter.
Headings; References; Interpretation.
     4.3 The Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties signatory hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
     4.4 The provisions of this Agreement are intended to bind the parties signatory hereto as to each other and are not intended to and do not create rights in any other person or entity or confer upon any other person or entity any benefits, rights or remedies and no person or entity is or is intended to be a third party beneficiary of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
No Third Party Rights.
     4.5 This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which together shall constitute one agreement binding on the parties hereto.
Counterparts.
     4.6 This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed wholly within such state without giving effect to conflict of law principles thereof, except to the extent that it is mandatory that the Law of some other jurisdiction shall apply.
Governing Law.
     4.7 Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights or obligations hereunder may be assigned by any Party without the prior written consent of each of the Parties. Except as provided herein, nothing in this Agreement is intended to or shall confer upon any person or entity other than the Parties, and their respective successors and permitted assigns, any rights, benefits, or remedies of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.
Assignment of Agreement.
     4.8 This Agreement may be amended or modified from time to time only by the written agreement of all the Parties hereto and affected thereby.
Amendment or Modification.
     4.9 Except to the extent that they are a party hereto, the directors, managers, officers, partners, members and securityholders of the Parties and their respective Affiliates shall not have any personal liability or obligation arising under this Agreement (including any claims that another party may assert).
Director and Officer Liability.
 
     4.10 If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal, or incapable of being enforced under applicable Law or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated herein are not affected in any manner adverse to any Party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal, or incapable of being enforced, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated herein are consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
Severability.
     4.11 This Agreement, the Contribution Agreement and the instruments referenced herein supersede any and all previous understandings or agreements among the Parties, whether oral or written, with respect to their subject matter. This Agreement, the Contribution Agreement and such instruments contain the entire understanding of the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof. No understanding, representation, promise or agreement, whether oral or written, is intended to be or shall be included in or form part of this Agreement, the Contribution Agreement or any such instrument unless it is contained in a written amendment hereto or thereto and executed by the Parties hereto or thereto after the date of this Agreement or such instrument.
Integration.
     4.12 The Parties ratify and confirm that except as otherwise expressly provided herein, in the event this Agreement conflicts in any way with any instrument of conveyance covering the Contributed Interests (other than the Contribution Agreement), the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall control.
Effect of Amendment.
     4.13 The matters provided for in Section 2.1 shall be completed prior to the matters provided for in Section 2.5.
Order.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereto on the date first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT G
 
     This Limited Call Right Forbearance Agreement (this "") is made and entered into as of February ___, 2010 by and between Williams Partners L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), and Williams Partners GP LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and the general partner of the Partnership (the "").
Agreement
Partnership
General Partner
     A. The Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated as of August 23, 2005, as amended (the ""), has been entered into and effectuated by the General Partner pursuant to the authority granted to it in Article XIII of the Partnership Agreement. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Partnership Agreement.
Partnership Agreement
     B. Under Section 15.1 of the Partnership Agreement, if at any time the General Partner and its Affiliates hold more than 80% of the total Limited Partner Interests of any class then Outstanding, the General Partner shall then have the right (the ""), which right it may assign and transfer in whole or in part to the Partnership or any Affiliate of the General Partner, exercisable at its option, to purchase all, but not less than all, of such Limited Partner Interests of such class then Outstanding held by Persons other than the General Partner and its Affiliates at a price and on the terms specified in such Section 15.1.
Limited Call Right
     C. On the date hereof, pursuant to a Contribution Agreement by and among Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Williams Energy Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, WGP Gulfstream Pipeline Company, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company, the General Partner, the Partnership, Williams Partners Operating LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and, for a limited purpose, The Williams Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, dated as of January 15, 2010 (the ""), the Partnership is issuing 203,000,000 Class C units representing limited partner interests in the Partnership (""), which are convertible pursuant to their terms into Common Units, to the General Partner and its Affiliates as partial consideration for the contribution by the General Partner and its Affiliates of certain assets (the "").
Contribution Agreement
Class C Units
Contribution
     D. Immediately after the Contribution, the General Partner and its Affiliates will own approximately [___]% of the Common Units (assuming the full conversion of Class C Units held by the General Partner and its Affiliates) and, upon the full conversion of the Class C Units into Common Units, may thereafter be entitled under the Partnership Agreement to exercise the Limited Call Right with respect to the Common Units.
     E. The parties desire that the General Partner will agree to forbear exercising the Limited Call Right in certain circumstances.
For good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
 
1. Forbearance of Exercise of Limited Call Right
The General Partner agrees not to exercise or permit to be exercised the Limited Call Right with respect to the Common Units unless the General Partner and its Affiliates hold more than 85% of the Common Units then Outstanding. The Partnership is relying on the forbearance of the exercise of the Limited Call Right as part of the consideration for the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement.
2. Termination of Forbearance
The General Partner's agreement in Section 1 hereof and the remainder of this Agreement shall terminate at such time as the General Partner and its Affiliates collectively hold less than 75% of the Common Units then Outstanding (assuming the full conversion of Class C Units held by the General Partner and its Affiliates), in which event the Limited Call Right will be exercisable in accordance with the Partnership Agreement.
3. Specific Performance
The parties have agreed that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. Accordingly, prior to termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the parties will be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in addition to any other remedy to which the parties are entitled at law or in equity. In connection with any request for specific performance or equitable relief by any party, each of the other parties agrees to waive any requirement for the security or posting of any bond in connection with the remedy of specific performance or equitable relief. Any actions for specific performance or equitable relief must be brought in the Delaware Chancery Court or the federal courts within the State of Delaware.
4. Notices
Notices under this Agreement shall be provided in writing and shall be deemed received if sent to the address or fax number specified below: (i) on the day received if sent by courier delivery, (ii) on the next Business Day if sent by facsimile transmission when sender has machine confirmation that the notice was transmitted, or (iii) three (3) Business Days after mailing if sent by certified or registered mail.
 
The General Partner and/or the Partnership may change its address for notices by providing notice to the other in accordance with this .
Section 4
5. Entire Agreement
There are no representations, conditions, agreements or understandings with respect to this Agreement other than as set forth or referred to in this Agreement. No provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived except by a written instrument executed by the General Partner and Partnership. Notwithstanding anything else herein set forth, this Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Partnership and the General Partner with respect to the subject matter hereof and cancels and supersedes any prior guarantees, agreements and understandings between such parties with respect thereto.
6. Successors and Assigns
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the respective successors and permitted assigns of the General Partner and the Partnership. This Agreement shall not be assigned or otherwise transferred, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the non-assigning party.
7. Governing Law
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the principles of conflicts of law.
8. Action by Partnership
With respect to any action, notice, consent, approval or waiver that is required to be taken or given or that may be taken or given by the Partnership pursuant to this Agreement, such action, notice, consent, approval or waiver shall be taken or given by the Conflicts Committee on behalf of the Partnership.
9. Severability
If any provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, entity or circumstance shall be held invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to other persons, entities or circumstances shall not be affected thereby and shall be enforced to the greatest extent permitted by law.
10. Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but both of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
     as of the date first above written.
EXECUTED
 
EXHIBIT H
 
     This Omnibus Agreement (the "") is made and entered into as of February ___, 2010, by and between The Williams Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and Williams Partners L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""). The above-named entities are sometimes referred to in this Agreement each as a "" and collectively as the "."
Agreement
Williams
Partnership
Party
Parties
     WHEREAS, the Parties desire by their execution of this Agreement to evidence their understanding, (i) as more fully set forth in , and of this Agreement, with respect to certain indemnification, reimbursement and payment obligations of Williams to the Partnership, and (ii) as more fully set forth in of this Agreement, with respect to payments to be made by the Partnership to Williams in respect of sales of natural gas recovered from the Hester Storage Field.
Articles II
III
IV
Article V
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants, conditions and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
     Section 1.1 The respective terms defined in this shall, when used in this Agreement, have the respective meanings specified herein, with each such definition equally applicable to both singular and plural forms of the terms so defined.
Definitions.
Section 1.1
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Aggregate Devils Tower Payments
Section 4.1
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Agreement
"" has the meaning given such term in the Partnership Agreement.
Conflicts Committee
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Devils Tower Ceiling Amount
Section 4.1
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Hurricane Repairs Amount
Section 2.1
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Partnership
"" means the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated August 23, 2005, as amended from time to time.
Partnership Agreement
"" and "" have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the preamble.
Party
Parties
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Quarterly Devils Tower Amount
Section 4.1
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Quarterly DOT Amount
Section 3.1
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Quarterly Hester Gas Amount
Section 5.1
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Williams
     Section 1.2 In constructing this Agreement: (a) the currency amounts referred to herein, unless otherwise specified, are in United States dollars; (b) whenever this Agreement refers to a number of days, such number shall refer to calendar days unless business days are specified; (c) unless otherwise specified, all references in this Agreement to "Article," "Section," "Exhibit," "preamble" or "recitals" shall be references to an Article, Section, Exhibit, preamble or recitals hereto; and (e) whenever the context requires, the words used in this Agreement shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter and singular and the plural.
Construction.
     Section 2.1 . Williams shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Partnership from and against all amounts incurred by the Partnership or any of its subsidiaries for repair or abandonment costs after the date of this Agreement in excess of insurance proceeds realized for damages to the facilities as identified in caused by Hurricane Ike (such net amount, the ""), up to a maximum of $10,000,000 (the ""). The Partnership shall, or shall cause its subsidiaries to, use commercially reasonable efforts to realize any applicable insurance proceeds. No gross-up or other increase in any indemnification shall be provided by Williams with respect to any federal, state or local tax liability that may be owed by Partnership or any affiliate of the Partnership with respect to any payment made under this .
General
Exhibit A
Hurricane Repairs Amount
Hurricane Repairs Ceiling Amount
Article II
     Section 2.2 . Promptly following the Partnership's determination that the Partnership and its subsidiaries have completed all of the repairs that they intend to undertake and the receipt by the Partnership or any of its subsidiaries of all associated insurance proceeds, the Partnership shall prepare and deliver to Williams a statement setting forth the Hurricane Repairs Amount and, in reasonable detail, the components thereof.
Preparation and Delivery of Statement
     Section 3.1 . Williams shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Partnership from and against all maintenance capital expenditure amounts incurred by the Partnership or its subsidiaries within 24 months of the date of this Agreement in respect of the Department of Transportation projects described in attached hereto (such amount, in respect of any particular calendar quarter, the ""), up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000,000 (the ""). No gross-up or other increase in any indemnification shall be provided by Williams with respect to any federal, state or local tax liability that may be owed by the Partnership or any affiliate of the Partnership with respect to any payment made under this
General
Exhibit B
Quarterly DOT Amount
DOT Ceiling Amount
Article III.
 
     Section 3.2 . Promptly following the end of each full or partial calendar quarter within the 24-month period referenced in , the Partnership shall prepare and deliver to Williams a statement setting forth the Quarterly DOT Amount for such calendar quarter and, in reasonable detail, the components thereof.
Preparation and Delivery of Statement
Section 3.1
     Section 4.1 . At 12:01 a.m., Tulsa, Oklahoma time, on the first day of the calendar month in which this Agreement is executed, Williams had a deferred revenue balance recorded in account numbers 4123.00042563.0.0.2210.0.0.0 and 4123.00042563.0.0.2740.0.0.0 of its general ledger reflecting certain cash payments previously received by it for services to be rendered in future periods at its Devils Tower floating production platform located in Mississippi Canyon Block 773 (the amount of such deferred revenue balance, the ""). Williams shall pay to the Partnership, with respect to each calendar quarter ending after the date of this Agreement, the amount, if any, by which such deferred revenue balance at the end of such quarter is less than the difference between the (a) the Devils Tower Ceiling Amount and (b) the Aggregate Devils Tower Payments (such amount, in respect of any particular calendar quarter, the ""). For purposes of the above calculation in any particular calendar quarter, the "" is the aggregate amount of all Quarterly Devils Tower Amounts for previous quarters.
General
Devils Tower Ceiling Amount
Quarterly Devils Tower Amount
Aggregate Devils Tower Payments
     Section 4.2 . Within 45 days of the end of each calendar quarter ending after the date of this Agreement and continuing until the Aggregate Devils Tower Payments equal the Devils Tower Ceiling Amount, the Partnership shall prepare and deliver to Williams a statement of the Quarterly Devils Tower Amount, setting forth in reasonable detail the components thereof.
Preparation and Delivery of Statement
     Section 5.1 . The Partnership shall pay to Williams, with respect to each calendar quarter ending after the date of this Agreement, an amount equal to (a) the amount of proceeds received by the Partnership or any of its subsidiaries during such calendar quarter in respect of sales occurring after the date of this Agreement of natural gas recovered from the Hester Storage Field pursuant to the order of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission dated March 7, 2008 approving a settlement agreement in Docket No. RP06-569, minus (b) the sum of (i) federal, state and local income taxes calculated to have been incurred with respect to such sale proceeds and (ii) the amount of payments required to be made to customers pursuant to such settlement agreement (such net amount, in respect of any particular calendar quarter, the "").
General
Quarterly Hester Gas Amount
     Section 5.2 . Within 45 days of the end of each calendar quarter ending after the date of this Agreement, the Partnership shall prepare and deliver to Williams a statement of the Quarterly Hester Gas Amount, setting forth in reasonable detail the components thereof.
Preparation and Delivery of Statement
 
     Section 6.1 . Within 15 days following receipt by Williams of a statement described in , , or , Williams shall deliver notice to the Partnership of any dispute it has with respect to the preparation or content of such statement. In the event Williams does not notify the Partnership of a dispute with respect to such statement within such 15-day period, such statement will be final, conclusive and binding on the parties hereto. In the event of such notification of a dispute, Williams and the Partnership shall negotiate in good faith to resolve such dispute. If Williams and the Partnership, notwithstanding such good faith effort, fail to resolve such dispute within 30 days after Williams advises the Partnership of its objections, then such dispute shall be submitted to binding arbitration in Tulsa, Oklahoma in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. All decisions rendered in connection with an arbitration pursuant to this shall be final, conclusive and binding on the parties hereto. Williams and the Partnership shall share equally the fees and expenses of the arbitrator and the costs of arbitration. Each party shall otherwise pay its own costs and attorneys' fees. Following the final decision of the arbitrator, the arbitrator shall, within 2 business days from the date of such final decision, deliver a written notice to Williams and the Partnership specifying the Hurricane Repairs Amount, the Quarterly DOT Amount, the Quarterly Devils Tower Amount or the Quarterly Hester Gas Amount, as applicable.
General
Section 2.2
3.2
4.2
5.2
Section 6.1
     Section 6.2 . For purposes of complying with the terms set forth in this , the Partnership and Williams shall cooperate with and make available to the other parties hereto and their representatives all information, records, data and working papers, and will permit access to their facilities and personnel, as may be reasonably required in connection with the preparation and analysis of a statement described in , , or and the resolution of any disputes thereunder.
Cooperation
Article V
Section 2.2
3.2
4.2
5.2
     Section 6.3 . Within 5 business days from the date on which the Hurricane Repairs Amount, the Quarterly DOT Amount, the Quarterly Devils Tower Amount or the Quarterly Hester Gas Amount, as applicable, is finally determined pursuant to , (a) Williams shall pay to the Partnership the Hurricane Repairs Amount (subject to the Hurricane Repairs Ceiling Amount), the Quarterly DOT Amount (subject to the DOT Ceiling Amount and taking into account all prior payments of the Quarterly DOT Amount) or the Quarterly Devils Tower Amount (subject to the Devils Tower Ceiling Amount and taking into account all prior payments of the Quarterly Devils Tower Amount), as applicable, by wire or interbank transfer of immediately available funds to an account specified in writing by the Partnership or (b) the Partnership shall pay to Williams the Quarterly Hester Gas Amount, as applicable, by wire or interbank transfer of immediately available funds to an account specified in writing by Williams.
Payment
Section 6.1
     Section 7.1 . Any notice, instruction, correspondence or other document to be given hereunder by either Party to the other shall be in writing and delivered in person or by courier service requiring acknowledgment of receipt of delivery or by telecopier, as follows:
Notices
 
If to Williams, addressed to:
The Williams Companies, Inc. One Williams Center Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172-0172 Attention: General Counsel Phone: (918) 573-2000 Fax: (918) 573-5942
If to the Partnership, addressed to:
Williams Partners L.P. One Williams Center Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172-0172 Attention: Chief Financial Officer Phone: (918) 573-2000 Fax: (918) 573-5942
     Section 7.2 . This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of New York without reference to principles of conflicts of laws. Each Party hereby submits to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts in the State of Texas and to venue in Texas.
Governing Law
     Section 7.3 . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. No supplement, modification or waiver of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by each Party to be bound thereby. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof (regardless of whether similar), nor shall any waiver constitute a continuing waiver unless otherwise expressly provided.
Entire Agreement; Amendments and Waivers
     Section 7.4 . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns, but neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, benefits or obligations hereunder shall be assigned or transferred, by operation of law or otherwise, by either Party without the prior written consent of the other Party. Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied is intended to confer upon any person or entity other than the Parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns, any rights, benefits or obligations hereunder.
Binding Effect and Assignment
     Section 7.5 . If any provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, entity or circumstance shall be held invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to other persons, entities or circumstances shall not be affected thereby and shall be enforced to the greatest extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
     Section 7.6 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Multiple Counterparts
     Section 7.7 . In connection with this Agreement and all transactions contemplated by this Agreement, each Party agrees to execute and deliver such additional documents and instruments and to perform such additional acts as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate, carry out and perform all of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Agreement and all such transactions.
Further Assurances
     Section 7.8 . For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Agreement shall not give rise to any right of recourse against any officer or director of either Party.
No Recourse Against Officers or Directors
     Section 7.9 . With respect to any action, notice, consent, approval or waiver that is required to be taken or given or that may be taken or given by the Partnership pursuant to this Agreement, such action, notice, consent, approval or waiver shall be taken or given by the Conflicts Committee on behalf of the Partnership.
Action by Partnership
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement on and effective as of the date first written above.
 
EXHIBIT A
 
EXHIBIT A
 
EXHIBIT A
 
EXHIBIT A
 
EXHIBIT A
 
EXHIBIT A
 
EXHIBIT B
Georgia Permit Segments
Valve Section: 115-10 to 115-20
Valve Section: 125-10 to 125-20
 
EXHIBIT B
North Carolina Permit Segments (Downstream of Station 155):
Valve Section: 155-0 to 155-10
 
EXHIBIT I
 
     This Amendment No. 6, dated February ___, 2010 (this ""), to the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership, dated as of August 23, 2005, as amended (the ""), of Williams Partners L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), is entered into and effectuated by Williams Partners GP LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and the general partner of the Partnership (the ""), pursuant to authority granted to it in Article XIII of the Partnership Agreement. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein are used as defined in the Partnership Agreement.
Amendment
Partnership Agreement
Partnership
General Partner
     WHEREAS, Section 5.6 of the Partnership Agreement provides that the Partnership, without the approval of any Limited Partner, may, for any Partnership purpose, at any time or from time to time, issue additional Partnership Securities for such consideration and on such terms and conditions as determined by the General Partner; and
     WHEREAS, Section 13.1(d) of the Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner, without the approval of any Partner, may amend any provision of the Partnership Agreement to reflect a change that the General Partner determines does not adversely affect the Limited Partners (including any particular class of Partnership Interests as compared to other classes of Partnership Interests) in any material respect; and
     WHEREAS, Section 13.1(g) of the Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner, without the approval of any Partner, may amend any provision of the Partnership Agreement to reflect an amendment that the General Partner determines to be necessary or appropriate in connection with the authorization of the issuance of any class or series of Partnership Securities pursuant to Section 5.6 of the Partnership Agreement; and
     WHEREAS, Williams Energy Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), WGP Gulfstream Pipeline Company, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (""), the General Partner (the General Partner, together with WES, WGP and WGPGPC, the ""), the Partnership and Williams Partners Operating LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Partnership (the "") and, for a limited purpose, The Williams Companies, Inc., entered into that certain Contribution Agreement (the "") dated January 15, 2010, pursuant to which the Contributing Parties will contribute membership interests and a limited partner interest in certain Delaware limited liability companies and a Delaware limited partnership, respectively, in exchange for aggregate consideration that includes the issuance of Class C Units representing a new class of Partnership Securities to be designated as "Class C Units," with such terms as are set forth in this Amendment; and
WES
WGP
WGPGPC
Contributing Parties
Operating Company
2010 Contribution Agreement
 
     WHEREAS, the General Partner has determined that the creation of the Class C Units will be in the best interests of the Partnership and fair and reasonable to the Partnership's unaffiliated Unitholders; and
     WHEREAS, the issuance of the Class C Units complies with the requirements of the Partnership Agreement; and
     WHEREAS, acting pursuant to the power and authority granted to it: (i) under Section 13.1(d)(i) of the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner has determined that this Amendment to the Partnership Agreement does not adversely affect the Limited Partners (including any particular class of Partnership Interests as compared to other classes of Partnership Interests) in any material respect, and (ii) under Section 13.1(g) of the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner has determined that this Amendment to the Partnership Agreement is necessary and appropriate in connection with the authorization of issuance of the Class C Units;
     NOW THEREFORE, the General Partner does hereby amend the Partnership Agreement as follows:
     1. Section 1.1 of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended to add or amend and restate the following definitions:
     "" means that Contribution Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2010, among Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC, WES, WGP Gulfstream Pipeline Company, L.L.C., the General Partner, the Partnership, the Operating Company, and (for purposes of certain Sections thereof only) Williams.
2010 Contribution Agreement
     "" means the General Partner Units issued in accordance with Section 2.2(a)(iii) of the 2010 Contribution Agreement.
2010 Contribution General Partner Units
     "" means that Omnibus Agreement, dated as of [date], among Williams and the Partnership.
2010 Omnibus Agreement
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 5.12(f).
Class C Conversion Effective Date
     "" means a Partnership Security representing a fractional part of the Partnership Interests of all Limited Partners and Assignees, and having the rights and obligations specified with respect to the Class C Units in this Agreement. The term "Class C Unit" does not refer to a Common Unit until such Class C Unit has converted into a Common Unit pursuant to the terms hereof.
Class C Unit
     "" means, at any particular time, all of the then indebtedness, liabilities and obligations of the Partnership arising under the (i) $150 million senior unsecured notes outstanding that mature on June 15, 2011, (ii) $600 million of senior unsecured notes outstanding that mature on February 1, 2017, (iii) $250 million term loan outstanding under a $450 million senior unsecured credit agreement with Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent, and (iv) aggregate $3.5 billion (a) senior unsecured notes outstanding that mature on [dates] [the new
Debt Obligations
 
144A offering] and (b) an unsecured credit agreement with [    ] as administrative agent [the new credit facility], including in each case any indebtedness, liabilities and obligations treated as that borrowing pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.163-8T or any successor provision.
     "" means an amount of Net Losses as determined for the taxable period that if allocated to any Unitholder would cause such Unitholder to have a deficit balance in its Capital Account at the end of such taxable period (or an increase in any existing deficit balance in its Adjusted Capital Account at the end of such taxable period). Any such Debt Obligation Net Losses will be allocated to the General Partner pursuant to Section 6.1(b)(iii).
Debt Obligation Net Losses
     "" means an amount of Net Termination Losses as determined for the taxable period that if allocated to any Unitholder would cause such Unitholder to have a deficit balance in its Capital Account at the end of such taxable period (or an increase in any existing deficit balance in its Adjusted Capital Account at the end of such taxable period). Any such Debt Obligation Net Termination Losses will be allocated to the General Partner pursuant to Section 6.1(c)(ii)(C).
Debt Obligation Net Termination Losses
     "" has the meaning set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.752-1(a)(2) (and excludes the Debt Obligations for which the General Partner bears economic risk of loss under Treasury Regulation 1.752-2).
Nonrecourse Liability
     "" means, as of any date of determination, the Capital Account, stated on a per Unit basis, underlying any Unit held by a Person other than the General Partner or any Affiliate of the General Partner who holds Units.
Per Unit Capital Amount
     "" means amounts paid to the Partnership quarterly pursuant to Article IV of the 2010 Omnibus Agreement with respect to the amortization of deferred revenue in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles with respect to the Devils Tower floating production platform located in Mississippi Canyon Block 773.
Quarterly Devils Tower Payments
     "" means a Partnership Security that is designated as a "Unit" and shall include Common Units, Class B Units, Class C Units and Subordinated Units but shall not include (i) General Partner Units (or the General Partner Interest represented thereby) or (ii) Incentive Distribution Rights.
Unit
     2. Section 1.1 of the Partnership Agreement is hereby further amended to amend and restate the final sentence to the definition of "Common Unit" as follows:
     "The term "" does not include a Subordinated Unit, a Class B Unit or a Class C Unit prior to its conversion into a Common Unit pursuant to the terms hereof."
Common Unit
     3. Section 4.8(c) is hereby amended to add the following sentence to the end of Section 4.8(c):
     "The transfer of a Class C Unit that has converted into a Common Unit shall be subject to the restrictions imposed by Section 6.10."
 
     4. Section 5.2 is hereby amended to add a new Section 5.2(e) as follows:
     "(e) Each payment by Williams or an Affiliate of Williams in satisfaction of all or any portion of the Quarterly Devils Tower Payment shall be treated as a Capital Contribution to the Partnership by the General Partner in the amount of such payment."
     5. Section 5.5(c) is hereby amended to add a new Section 5.5(c)(iii) as follows:
     "(iii) Subject to Section 6.10, immediately prior to the transfer of a Class C Unit or of a Class C Unit that has converted into a Common Unit pursuant to Section 5.12(f) by a holder thereof (other than a transfer to an Affiliate unless the General Partner elects to have this subparagraph 5.5(c)(iii) apply), the Capital Account maintained for such Person with respect to its Class C Units or converted Class C Units will (A) , be allocated to the Class C Units or converted Class C Units to be transferred in an amount equal to the product of (x) the number of such Class C Units or converted Class C Units to be transferred and (y) the Per Unit Capital Amount for a Common Unit, and (B) , any remaining balance in such Capital Account will be retained by the transferor, regardless of whether it has retained any Class C Units or converted Class C Units. Following any such allocation, the transferor's Capital Account, if any, maintained with respect to the retained Class C Units or retained converted Class C Units, if any, will have a balance equal to the amount allocated under clause (B) hereinabove, and the transferee's Capital Account established with respect to the transferred Class C Units or converted Class C Units will have a balance equal to the amount allocated under clause (A) hereinabove."
first
second
     6. Article V is hereby amended to add a new Section 5.12 creating a new class of Units as follows:
     "Section 5.12 Establishment of Class C Units.
     (a) . The General Partner hereby designates and creates a class of Units to be designated as "Class C Units" and consisting of a total of 203,000,000 Class C Units, and fixes the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, powers and duties of holders of the Class C Units as set forth in this Section 5.12.
General
     (b) . During the period commencing upon issuance of the Class C Units and ending on the Class C Conversion Effective Date:
Rights of Class C Units
     (i) . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all items of Partnership income, gain, loss, deduction and credit shall be allocated to the Class C Units to the same extent as such items would be so allocated if such Class C Units were Common Units that were then Outstanding.
Allocations
     (ii) . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Class C Units shall have the right to share in partnership distributions of Available Cash pursuant to Section 6.3 on a pro rata basis with the Common Units (excluding distributions with respect to (A) the calendar quarter in which the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs and (B) the calendar quarter prior to the calendar quarter in which the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs), so that the
Distributions
 
amount of any Partnership distribution to each Common Unit will equal the amount of such distribution to each Class C Unit. The Class C Units shall have the right to share in Partnership distributions of Available Cash pursuant to Section 6.3 with respect to the calendar quarter in which the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs, so that the amount of any Partnership distribution to each Class C Unit will equal (A) the amount of such distribution to each Common Unit multiplied by (B) a fraction, (x) the numerator of which is the number of days commencing with the first day of the month in which the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs and ending with the last day of such calendar quarter and (y) the denominator of which is the total number of days in such calendar quarter. In the event that the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs prior to or on the record date for a distribution by the Partnership of Available Cash pursuant to Section 6.3 with respect to a calendar quarter prior to the calendar quarter in which the Closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs, the Class C Units shall have no right to share in distributions of Available Cash with respect to such prior calendar quarter.
     (c) . Prior to the Class C Conversion Effective Date, the Class C Units shall be entitled to vote as a single class with the holders of the Common Units on any matters on which Unitholders are entitled to vote, and shall be entitled to vote as a separate class on any matter that adversely affects the rights or preferences of the Class C Units in relation to other classes of Partnership Interests (including as a result of a merger or consolidation) or as required by law. The approval of a majority of the Class C Units shall be required to approve any matter for which the holders of the Class C Units are entitled to vote as a separate class. Each Class C Unit will be entitled to the number of votes equal to the number of Common Units into which a Class C Unit is convertible at the time of the record date for the vote or written consent on the matter.
Voting Rights
     (d) . The Class C Units will be evidenced by certificates in substantially the form of to Amendment No. 6 to this Agreement and, subject to Section 6.10 and the satisfaction of any applicable legal and regulatory requirements, may be assigned or transferred in a manner identical to the assignment and transfer of Common Units. The certificates will initially include a restrictive legend to the effect that the Class C Units have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws.
Certificates
Exhibit A
     (e) . The General Partner will act as registrar and transfer agent of the Class C Units.
Registrar and Transfer Agent
     (f) . Each Class C Unit shall automatically convert into one Common Unit (subject to appropriate adjustment in the event of any split-up, combination or similar event affecting the Common Units or other Units that occurs prior to the conversion of the Class C Units) effective as of the first business day following the record date for the distribution with respect to the calendar quarter in which the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs (the "") without any further action by the holders thereof and without the approval of any Partner. The terms of the Class C Units will be changed, automatically and without further action, on the Class C Conversion Effective Date so that each Class C Unit is converted into one Common Unit and, immediately thereafter, none of the Class C Units shall be Outstanding; , that
Conversion
Class C Conversion Effective Date
provided, however
 
such converted Class C Units will remain subject to the provisions of Sections 6.1(d)(xv) and 6.10.
     (g) . Subject to the requirements of Section 6.10, on or after the Class C Conversion Effective Date, each holder of Class C Units shall promptly surrender the Class C Unit Certificates therefor, duly endorsed, at the office of the General Partner or of any transfer agent for the Class C Units. In the case of any such conversion, the Partnership shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, issue and deliver at such office to such holder of Class C Units one or more Unit Certificates, registered in the name of such holder, for the number of Common Units to which such holder shall be entitled. Such conversion shall be deemed to have been made as of the Class C Conversion Effective Date whether or not the Class C Unit certificate has been surrendered as of such date, and the Person entitled to receive the Common Units issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of such Common Units as of such date.
Surrender of Certificates
     7. Section 6.1(b)(ii) is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
     "(ii) Second, 100% to the General Partner and the Unitholders, in accordance with their respective Percentage Interests; , that (A) Net Losses shall not be allocated pursuant to this Section 6.1(b)(ii) to the extent that such allocation would cause any Unitholder to have a deficit balance in its Adjusted Capital Account at the end of such taxable year (or increase any existing deficit balance in its Adjusted Capital Account) and (B) Debt Obligation Net Losses are not Nonrecourse Deductions attributable to a Nonrecourse Liability and any such Debt Obligation Net Losses shall be allocated to the General Partner pursuant to Section 6.1(b)(iii); and"
provided
     8. Section 6.1(c)(ii)(B) is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
     "(B) Second, (x) to the General Partner in accordance with its Percentage Interest and (y) to all Unitholders holding Common Units, Pro Rata, a percentage equal to 100% less the percentage applicable to subclause (x) of this clause (B), until the Capital Account in respect of each Common Unit then Outstanding has been reduced to zero; , that Debt Obligation Net Termination Losses are not Nonrecourse Deductions attributable to a Nonrecourse Liability and any such Debt Obligation Net Termination Losses shall be allocated to the General Partner pursuant to Section 6.1(c)(ii)(C)); and"
provided
     9. Section 6.1(d)(xiii) is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
     "(xiii) . (A) Any deduction or loss attributable to the Partnership's obligation to reimburse the General Partner for, or incurred by the Partnership and constituting, Excess G&A Expenses, which the General Partner has funded or agreed to fund pursuant to Section 5.2(c) and any deduction or loss attributable to environmental losses, costs, damages and expenses and repair and compliance costs suffered or incurred by the Partnership Group, which the General Partner or an Affiliate (other than a Group Member) has reimbursed or agreed to reimburse and which constitute Environmental Indemnity Obligations, shall be allocated to the General Partner, and (B) all or any portion of the remaining items of Partnership deduction or loss for the taxable period, if any, shall be allocated to the General
Certain Allocations to the General Partner
 
Partner until the aggregate amount of such items allocated to the General Partner pursuant to this Section 6.1(d)(xiii)(B) for the current taxable year and all previous taxable years is equal to the cumulative amount of all Quarterly Devils Tower Payments made to the Partnership."
     10. Section 6.1(d) is hereby amended to add a new Section 6.1(d)(xv) as follows:
     "(xv) . With respect to any taxable period in which the Class C Conversion Effective Date occurs (and, if necessary, any subsequent taxable period), items of Partnership gross income, gain, deduction or loss for the taxable period shall be allocated 100% to each Limited Partner with respect to such Limited Partner's Class C Units that are Outstanding on the Class C Conversion Effective Date in the proportion that the respective number of Class C Units held by such Partner bears to the total number of Class C Units then Outstanding, until each such Partner has been allocated the amount of gross income, gain, deduction or loss with respect to such Partner's Class C Units that causes the Capital Account attributable to each Class C Unit, on a per Unit basis, to equal the Per Unit Capital Amount for a Common Unit on the Class C Conversion Effective Date. The purpose for this allocation is to establish uniformity between the Capital Accounts underlying converted Class C Units and the Capital Accounts underlying Common Units immediately prior to the conversion of Class C Units into Common Units.
Class C Economic Uniformity
     11. Section 6.4 is hereby amended to add a new Section 6.4(d) as follows:
     "(c)
Reduction in Distributions for Quarter of 2010 Contribution Agreement Closing.
     (i) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the amount of Available Cash otherwise distributable to the General Partner pursuant to Section 6.3 with respect to the calendar quarter in which the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs shall be reduced by the amount equal to (A) the amount that would otherwise have been distributed with respect to the 2010 Contribution General Partner Units for such quarter multiplied by (B) a fraction, (x) the numerator of which is the number of days commencing with the first day of such quarter and ending on the last day of the month preceding the month in which the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs and (y) the denominator of which is the total number of days in such calendar quarter. In the event that the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs prior to or on the record date for a distribution by the Partnership of Available Cash pursuant to Section 6.3 with respect to a calendar quarter prior to the calendar quarter in which the Closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs, the 2010 Contribution General Partner Units shall not be taken into account in determining the Percentage Interest of the General Partner or any Unitholder with respect to such prior calendar quarter and the 2010 Contribution General Partner Units shall have no right to share in distributions of Available Cash with respect to such prior calendar quarter.
Reduction in Distributions to General Partner
     (ii) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the amount of Available Cash otherwise distributable to the holders of the Incentive Distribution Rights pursuant to Section 6.3 with respect to the calendar quarter in which the closing of the contributions contemplated by the
Reduction in Distribution to Holders of Incentive Distribution Rights
 
2010 Contribution Agreement occurs shall be reduced by the amount equal to (A) the excess of (x) the amount that would otherwise have been distributed to the holders of the Incentive Distribution Rights for such quarter if this Section 6.4(d)(ii) did not exist over (y) the amount that would have been distributed to the holders of the Incentive Distribution Rights for such quarter if the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement had not been made and the issuances of Class C Units and General Partner Units contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement had not occurred, multiplied by (B) a fraction, (x) the numerator of which is the number of days commencing with the first day of such quarter and ending on the last day of the month preceding the month in which the closing of the contributions contemplated by the 2010 Contribution Agreement occurs and (y) the denominator of which is the total number of days in such calendar quarter."
     12. Article VI is hereby amended to add a new Section 6.10 as follows:
     "Section 6.10 . A Unitholder holding a Class C Unit that has converted into a Common Unit pursuant to Section 5.12 shall not be issued a Unit Certificate pursuant to Sections 4.1 or 5.12(g), and shall not be permitted to transfer such Common Units until such time as the General Partner determines, based on advice of counsel, that the converted Class C Unit should have, as a substantive matter, like intrinsic economic and federal income tax characteristics of an Initial Common Unit. In connection with the condition imposed by this Section 6.10, the General Partner shall take whatever steps are required to provide economic uniformity to the converted Class C Units in preparation for a transfer of such Common Units, including the application of Sections 5.5(c)(iii) and 6.1(d)(xv); , , that no such steps may be taken that would have a material adverse effect on the Unitholders holding Common Units represented by Unit Certificates."
Special Provisions Relating to the Holders of Class C Units
provided
however
     13. Except as hereby amended, the Partnership Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
     14. This Amendment shall be governed by, and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, all rights and remedies being governed by such laws without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
     15. Each provision of this Amendment shall be considered severable and if for any reason any provision or provisions herein are determined to be invalid, unenforceable or illegal under any existing or future law, such invalidity, unenforceability or illegality shall not impair the operation of or affect those provisions of this Amendment that are valid, enforceable and legal.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed as of the date first written above.
 
EXHIBIT J
 
     This Administrative Services Agreement ("Agreement") is effective as of , 2010 (the "Effective Date"), by and between Transco Pipeline Services LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Contractor"), and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Transco").
                    
     A. Transco is in the business of owning and operating natural gas pipeline, storage, and related facilities used in the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce (the "Business").
     B. Effective as of , 2010, at 11:59 p.m., Contractor entered into a Personnel Services Agreement with Williams WPC-I, a Delaware corporation ("WPC"), pursuant to which WPC will be the employer primarily for payroll, benefits and administrative operations and Contractor will be the employer primarily with respect to business operations (the "WPC Agreement").
                    
     C. Transco requires certain services to operate the Business and to fulfill other general and administrative functions relating to the Business.
     D. Contractor has agreed to provide such services in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and Transco is willing to engage Contractor subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
     In consideration of the foregoing recitals, which are incorporated herein by this reference, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
     In addition to the terms defined above and the other terms defined herein, as used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.1 Definitions
.
     "Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Person in question, with the term "control" meaning the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
     "Bankrupt" with respect to any Person means the Person shall generally be unable to pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall so admit in writing or shall make a general
 
assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Person seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 30 days; or the Person shall take any action to authorize any of the actions set forth above.
     "Confidential Information" means non-public information about the disclosing party's or any of its Affiliates' business or activities that is proprietary and confidential, which shall include all business, financial, technical and other information, including software (source and object code) and programming code, of a party or its Affiliates marked or designated "confidential" or "proprietary" or by its nature or the circumstances surrounding its disclosure it should reasonably be regarded as confidential, regardless of the means by which it was disclosed. Confidential Information does not include information that (i) is in or enters the public domain without breach of this Agreement, or (ii) the receiving party lawfully receives from a third party without restriction on disclosure and to the receiving party's knowledge without breach of a nondisclosure obligation.
     "Default Rate" means an interest rate (which shall in no event be higher than the rate permitted by applicable law) equal to the prime interest rate of Contractor's principal lender.
     "Funded Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.
     "Governmental Approval" means any material consent, authorization, certificate, permit, right-of-way grant or approval of any Governmental Authority that is necessary for the construction, ownership, or operation of the Business in accordance with applicable Laws.
     "Governmental Authority" means any court or tribunal in any jurisdiction or any federal, state, tribal, municipal, or local government or other governmental body, agency, authority, department, commission, board, bureau, instrumentality, arbitrator, or arbitral body or any quasigovernmental or private body lawfully exercising any regulatory or taxing authority.
     "Laws" means any applicable statute, common law, rule, regulation, judgment, order, ordinance, writ, injunction, or decree issued or promulgated by any Governmental Authority.
     "Payment Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.
     "Person" means an individual or a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization, association, government agency or political subdivision thereof, or other entity.
     "Services" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2.
     "Subject Employees" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3.
 
     Unless a clear contrary intention appears, as used herein (a) the singular includes the plural and (b) reference to any document means such document as amended from time to time, (c) "include" or "including" means including without limiting the generality of any description preceding such term, (d) the word "or" is not exclusive, unless otherwise expressly stated, (e) the terms "hereof," "herein," "hereby," and derivative or similar words refer to this entire Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, (f) headings are for convenience only and do not constitute a part of this Agreement, (g) references to money refer to legal currency of the United States of America, and (h) all accounting terms shall be interpreted and all accounting determinations shall be made in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
1.2 Construction.
vice versa,
     Transco engages Contractor to perform the Services and to provide all personnel and any facilities, goods, and equipment not otherwise provided by Transco necessary to operate the Business as provided below, and Contractor accepts such engagement.
2.1 Retention of Contractor.
     The "Services" shall consist of such services Transco determines may be reasonable and necessary to operate the Business, including employees (subject to the terms and conditions of the WPC Agreement), accounting, information technology, company development, operations, administration, insurance, risk management, tax, audit, finance, land, marketing, legal, and engineering, which Services may be expanded, modified, or reduced from time to time as agreed upon by the parties. Contractor shall perform the Services substantially in accordance with industry standards and substantially in accordance with all applicable material Governmental Approvals and Laws. Except as provided above, Contractor makes no representations or warranties regarding the Services and Contractor does not warrant or guarantee any particular outcome as a result of the Services.
2.2 Scope of Services; Performance Standards.
     
2.3 Intellectual Property.
          2.3.1 Any (i) inventions, whether patentable or not, developed or invented, or (ii) copyrightable material (and the intangible rights of copyright therein) developed, by Contractor or its Affiliates or its or their employees in connection with the performance of the Services shall be the property of Contractor except that during the term of this Agreement (A) Transco shall be granted an irrevocable, royalty-free, nonexclusive and non-transferable right and license to use such inventions or material, and (B) Transco shall only be granted such a right and license to the extent such grant does not conflict with, or result in a breach, default, or violation of a right or license to use such inventions or material granted to Contractor by any Person other than an Affiliate of Contractor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Contractor shall use commercially reasonable efforts to grant such right and license to Transco.
          2.3.2 Transco grants to Contractor and its Affiliates an irrevocable, royalty-free, non-exclusive, and non-transferable right and license to use, during the term of this Agreement, any intellectual property provided by Transco to Contractor or its Affiliates, but only to the extent such use is necessary for the performance of the Services. Contractor shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, utilize such intellectual property solely in connection with the performance
 
of the Services.
     Transco shall have the exclusive authority to appoint an independent registered public accounting firm to audit the financial statements of Transco. Notwithstanding such right, nothing in this Agreement shall limit Contractor's or Contractor's Affiliates' right to audit the books and records of Transco pursuant to any other agreement between the parties.
2.4 Limitation of Authority.
     The parties to this Agreement are independent contractors, and none of the provisions of this Agreement shall be interpreted or deemed to create any relationship between or between the parties other than that of independent contractors. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to create a relationship of employer and employee, master and servant, principal and agent, or partners or joint-venturers between Transco and Contractor, between Transco and any employee or agent of Contractor, or between Contractor and any employee or agent of Transco. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Transco shall have no right to control or direct the details, manner, or means by which Contractor perform the Services. Under no circumstances shall Contractor's or Contractor's Affiliates' employees be considered or deemed to be employees of Transco.
3.1 Independent Contractor.
     In the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, Contractor may act directly or through its Affiliates, agents, counsel (in-house or outside) or other persons, may delegate the performance of functions and may consult with agents, counsel (in-house or outside) and other Persons. Contractor, and any Person to whom its obligations have been delegated including any of its Affiliates, shall be entitled to conclusively rely for all purposes upon any notice, document, correspondence, request or directive received by it from Transco or its Affiliates, or any officer or director of Transco or its Affiliates, and shall not be obligated to inquire (a) as to the authority or power of any person executing or presenting any such notice, document, correspondence, request or directive, or (b) as to the truthfulness of any statements set forth therein.
3.2 Delegation of Duty.
     Contractor shall maintain accurate books and records regarding the performance of the Services and its calculation of the Payment Amount, and shall maintain such books and records for the period required by applicable accounting practices or Law.
4.1 Books and Records.
     Transco shall have the right, upon reasonable notice, and at all reasonable times during usual business hours, to inspect, audit, examine, and make copies of the books and records referred to above, which right may be exercised through any agent or employee of Transco designated in writing by it or by an independent public accountant, engineer, attorney, or other agent so designated. Transco shall bear all costs and expenses incurred in any inspection, examination, or audit unless an audit determines that Transco has been overcharged, in which case, in addition to refunding to Transco the amount of the overcharge, Contractor shall reimburse Transco for the cost of the audit together with interest thereon at the Default Rate from
4.2 Audits.
 
the time of the overcharge until refunded. Contractor shall review and respond in a timely manner to any claims or inquiries made by Transco regarding matters revealed by any such inspection, examination or audit.
     Contractor shall prepare and deliver to Transco any reports provided for in this Agreement and such other reports as Transco may reasonably request from time to time regarding the performance of the Services.
4.3 Reports.
     Contractor shall be reimbursed by Transco on a monthly basis, or such other basis as the Contractor may determine (including on a cash or accrual basis), for (a) all direct and indirect expenses it incurs or payments it makes on behalf of Transco (including salary, bonus, incentive compensation, benefits, and other amounts paid to any Person, including Affiliates of Contractor) to perform the Services, including expenses allocated to Transco by Affiliates of Contractor, and (b) all other expenses allocable to the Business or otherwise incurred by Contractor in connection with operating the Business (including expenses allocated to Contractor by its Affiliates) (collectively, the "Payment Amount"). Contractor shall determine the expenses that are allocable to Transco. Reimbursements pursuant to this Section shall be in addition to any reimbursement to Contractor as a result of indemnification pursuant to any other Section in this Agreement. Any allocation of expenses to Transco by Affiliates of Contractor in a manner consistent with then-applicable accounting and allocation methodologies generally permitted by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") for rate-making purposes (or in the absence of then-applicable methodologies permitted by the FERC, consistent with the most-recently applicable methodologies) and past business practices shall be deemed to be fair and reasonable to Transco. For the purpose of Contractor's determination of expenses under this Section 5.1, the parties agree that Transco shall be given full credit for the amount of assets Transco previously contributed (calculated immediately prior to the Effective Date) to fund post retirement benefits under any plans or trusts (including any VEBA or 401(h) account) maintained for the benefit of the employees of any Person, which employees are engaged in the performance of the Services, as the value of such assets may be increased or decreased due to investment results, administrative expenses, and benefit payments ("Funded Amount"), such that no portion of the cost of post-retirement benefits to the extent paid with the Funded Amount is allocated or charged to Transco under this Section 5.1.
5.1
Payment to Contractor.
     Contractor, directly or through its Affiliates, may adopt and participate in employee benefit plans, employee programs, and employee practices (including COBRA obligations, paid time off payments, severance, retiree medical, retiree life, equity related awards, bonuses, vesting of employee benefits, retirement plans, and other employee or retiree related payments, obligations, liabilities or benefits) (collectively, "Plans and Practices"), in each case for the benefit of employees, former employees, and directors of Contractor or any of its Affiliates, in respect of Services performed, directly or indirectly, for the benefit of Transco. Contractor, directly or through its Affiliates, has adopted and participates in (or in the future may adopt and participate in) Plans and Practices for the benefit of employees and former employees of Transco, the predecessor of Transco (Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation), and their Affiliates, in respect of services previously performed, directly or indirectly, for the
5.2 Benefit Plans.
 
benefit of Transco or its predecessor. Any and all expenses incurred or accrued by Contractor or its Affiliates in connection with any such Plans and Practices shall be reimbursed by Transco in accordance with the procedures described in Section 5.1.
     Each of Contractor and Transco shall (a) not disclose to any third party or use any Confidential Information disclosed to it by the other except as necessary to carry out its obligations under this Agreement, and (b) take all reasonable measures to maintain the confidentiality of all Confidential Information of the other party in its possession or control, which will in no event be less than the measures it uses to maintain the confidentiality of its own information of similar type and importance.
6.1 Nondisclosure.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, each party may disclose Confidential Information (a) to the extent required by a court of competent jurisdiction or other governmental authority or otherwise as required by law, including without limitation disclosure obligations imposed under the federal securities laws, provided that such party has given the other party prior notice of such requirement when legally permissible to permit the other party to take such legal action to prevent the disclosure as it deems reasonable, appropriate or necessary, or (b) to its and its Affiliates' consultants, legal counsel, accountants, financing sources, and their advisors including Persons performing duties pursuant to Section 3.2.
6.2 Permitted Disclosure.
     Unless terminated earlier as provided below, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect except that (a) Contractor may terminate this Agreement upon 60 days' advance written notice to the other party, and (b) Contractor or Transco may terminate this Agreement immediately upon written notice to the other party at any time at which neither Contractor nor an Affiliate of Contractor is the general partner of Williams Partners L.P. or its successor in interest.
7.1 Term.
     If a party shall be in breach of any provision of this Agreement (the "Breaching Party"), the non-breaching party ("Non-breaching Party") shall give the Breaching Party written notice of such breach (the "Notice"), and, subject to the terms of this Section, the Breaching Party shall have 30 days after receipt of the Notice within which to cure the breach except that no Notice shall be required if (a) the breach is an obligation to pay money, in which case the Breaching Party shall have five business days to cure the breach; (b) the same breach occurs in any six-month period; (c) the breach pertains to the Breaching Party's obligations under Section 6; or (d) a party files a petition in Bankruptcy (or is the subject of an involuntary petition in Bankruptcy that is not dismissed within 60 days after the effective filing date thereof). With respect to a breach of the obligations of a Breaching Party contained in Section 6, there is no adequate remedy at law, and the Non-Breaching Party will suffer irreparable harm as a result of such a breach. Therefore, if a breach or threatened breach by a Breaching Party of Section 6 occurs, the Non-Breaching Party shall be entitled to injunctive relief restraining the breaching party from doing any act in violation thereof without the obligation of posting a bond, cash, or otherwise.
7.2 Termination for Breach.
 
     If this Agreement is terminated in accordance with Section 7.1 or 7.2, all rights and obligations under this Agreement shall cease except for (a) obligations that expressly survive termination of this Agreement; (b) liabilities and obligations that have accrued prior to such termination, including the obligation to pay any amounts that have become due and payable prior to such termination, (c) the obligation to pay any portion of the Payment Amount that has accrued prior to such termination, even if such portion has not become due and payable at that time, and (d) all liabilities and other obligations attributable, or in any way related to, employees and former employees of Transco, Contractor, and their respective Affiliates to the extent that such employees and former employees provided Services to Transco, and the predecessors in interest of each and the estates, heirs, personal representatives, successors, and assigns of each such employee and former employee (each, a "Subject Employee") including with respect to current and former Plans and Practices and any benefit, equity, or incentive related plans, programs, policies, or practices of Transco or its predecessors, all of which shall be paid when due by Transco, recognizing that the amount of some of such liabilities and other obligations shall not be known at the time of termination of this Agreement and the obligation to pay shall continue after such termination..
7.3 Effect of Termination.
     Transco, for itself and on behalf of its Affiliates, and the predecessors in interest, successors, and assigns of each, releases and forever discharges Contractor, Contractor's Affiliates, and the successors and assigns of each, and the officers, directors, shareholders, members, partners, employees, contractors, and agents of each (as applicable, a "Releasee") of and from any and all causes of action, claims, demands, assessments, losses, liabilities, fines, penalties, suits, damages, liabilities, liens, rights, compensation, costs, and expenses of whatsoever kind or nature including reasonable legal and expert fees and expenses (each, a "Damage"), whether now known or unknown, and whether they exist now or in the future, arising from or relating to performance of, error or delay in performance, attempting to perform or failing to perform, any responsibilities hereunder, or any Damages related thereto, including claims arising as a result of the express negligence of the Releasee unless the Damage resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Releasee.
8.1 Release.
     Notwithstanding the definitions provided in Section l.1, as used in this Subsection 8.2: (a) the term Affiliate, when used with reference to Contractor, shall not include Transco or any of its subsidiaries, and, when used with reference to Transco, shall not include Contractor and its Affiliates; (b) references to Contractor and Transco, as applicable, as the Indemnified Party, shall include their respective Affiliates, the successors and assigns of each, and the officers, directors, shareholders, members, partners, employees, contractors, and agents of each, and their respective successors, assigns, and, in the case of individuals, their estates, heirs, and personal representatives; and (c) the Subject Employees are deemed to be third parties.
8.2 Indemnification.
          Transco, for itself and on behalf of its Affiliates, and the predecessors in interest, successors, and assigns of each (the "Transco Indemnifying Party") shall indemnify Contractor (the "Contractor Indemnified Party") from and against all Damages sustained or incurred as a result of or arising out of or by virtue of any claim made by a third party against a Contractor Indemnified Party, which claim arises out of or is
8.2.1 Indemnification Obligations.
 
caused by (a) a breach of this Agreement by a Transco Indemnifying Party, or (b) any action or omission, including negligence (but excluding gross negligence or willful misconduct) of a Contractor Indemnifying Party (as defined below) or its employees or subcontractors in connection with Contractor's obligations hereunder.
          Contractor, for itself and on behalf of its Affiliates, and the predecessors in interest, successors, and assigns of each (the "Contractor Indemnifying Party") shall indemnify Transco (the "Transco Indemnified Party") from and against all Damages sustained or incurred as a result of or arising out of or by virtue of any claim made by a third party against a Transco Indemnified Party, which claim arises out of or is caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of a Contractor Indemnifying Party or its employees or subcontractors.
          Each of Contractor and Transco shall give the other party prompt written notice and information in such party's possession concerning any claim that could result in a Damage. In performing its indemnity obligation, the Transco Indemnifying Party or the Contractor Indemnifying Party (as applicable, the "Indemnifying Party") shall have the right to assume the settlement in the defense of any suit or suits or other legal proceedings brought to enforce all such Damages and shall pay all judgments entered in any such suit or other legal proceedings. Except in the case where the Indemnifying Party refuses to assume such defense in settlement, the Indemnifying Party shall have no liability for any settlement in or compromise made without its written consent.
8.2.2 Procedure.
     Regardless of the basis on which Transco makes a claim against Contractor for damages, Contractor shall not be liable for any amount in excess of the lesser of (a) the amount of any actual and direct loss or damage incurred, or (b) the amount paid to Contractor in excess of reimbursement for direct and indirect costs in performance of the Services. All claims against Contractor shall be deemed waived unless made by Transco in writing and received by Contractor within six months after completion of the Services with respect to which the claim is being made.
8.3 Disclaimer; Limitation of Liability.
Neither party shall be responsible for any incidental, indirect, consequential, special, punitive, or exemplary damages.
     A party's obligation under this Agreement, other than an obligation to pay money and the indemnification obligations hereunder, shall be excused when and to the extent its performance of that obligation is prevented due to any cause beyond the reasonable control of a party, including the following causes (unless they are within such party's reasonable control): acts of God, strikes, lockouts, acts of the public enemy, wars or warlike action (whether actual or impending), arrests and other restraints of government (civil or military), blockades, embargoes, insurrections, riots, epidemics, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, sabotage, tornadoes, named tropical storms and hurricanes, floods, civil disturbances, terrorism, mechanical breakdown of machinery or equipment, explosions, confiscation or seizure by any government or other public authority and any order of any court of competent jurisdiction, regulatory agency or governmental body having jurisdiction. The party that is prevented from performing its obligation by reason of one or more of the foregoing events (the "Delayed Party") shall promptly notify the other party of that fact and shall exercise due diligence to end its inability to perform as promptly as practicable. However, in no event shall a
9.1 Force Majeure.
 
Delayed Party be required to settle any strike, lockout, or other labor dispute in which it may be involved, but in the event of a strike, lockout, or other labor dispute affecting Contractor, Contractor shall use reasonable efforts to continue to perform the Services by utilizing its management personnel and that of its Affiliates.
     Except as otherwise provided herein (including Contractor's right to delegate performance of the Services under Section 3.2), neither party shall sell, assign, or transfer any of its rights, or delegate any of its obligations, under this Agreement to any Person without the prior consent of the other party except that such prior consent shall not be required if such sale, assignment, or transfer is to an Affiliate of a party or in connection with a merger, consolidation, or the sale of substantially all of its assets.
9.2 Assignments.
     All notices and other communications that are required or permitted to be given to a party under this Agreement shall be sufficient in all respects if given in writing and delivered in person, by electronic mail, by facsimile, by overnight courier, or by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the receiving party at the following address:
9.3 Notices.
or to such other address as such party may have given to the other by notice pursuant to this Section. Notice shall be deemed given on the date of delivery, in the case of personal delivery, electronic mail, or facsimile, or on the delivery or refusal date, as specified on the return receipt in the case of certified mail or on the tracking report in the case of overnight courier.
     The parties shall execute and deliver all documents, provide all information and take or refrain from taking action as may be necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this Agreement.
9.4 Further Assurances.
     This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their heirs, executors, administrators, successors, legal representatives, and permitted assigns.
9.5 Binding Effect.
     If any provision of this Agreement is or becomes invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected thereby.
9.6 Invalidity of Provisions.
 
     None of the provisions of this Agreement shall be for the benefit of, or shall be enforceable by, any Person not a party to this Agreement.
9.7 Third Party Beneficiaries.
     No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant, duty, agreement, or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute waiver of any such breach of any other covenant, duty, agreement or condition.
9.8 Waiver.
     This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Oklahoma, without regard to the principles of conflicts of law. The proper venue for any lawsuit shall only exist in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
9.9 Applicable Law.
     If a party shall commence any action or proceeding against another party in order to enforce the provisions of this Agreement or to recover damages as a result of the alleged breach of any of the provisions of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover from the other party all reasonable costs in connection therewith, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
9.10
Attorneys' Fees.
     The terms and condition of this Agreement shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement to the full extent necessary for their enforcement and for the protection of the party in whose favor they operate, including the terms and conditions contained in Sections 2.3, 5.1, 5.2, 6.1, 6.2, 7.3, 8.1 through 8.3, and 9.2 through 9.12.
9.11 Survival of Terms and Conditions.
     This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement among the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings pertaining thereto. This Agreement may be amended or restated only by a written instrument executed by both parties.
9.12 Integration; Amendments.
     This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. A facsimile or electronic signature to this Agreement shall be deemed an original and binding upon the party against whom enforcement is sought.
9.13 Counterparts.
 
The parties have executed this Administrative Services Agreement on, and effective as of , the Effective Date.
                    
 
EXHIBIT K
 
     This Secondment Agreement (the ""), dated as of (the ""), is entered into between The Williams Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Williams Partners L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), and Williams Partners GP LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "") and the general partner of WPZ. The above-named entities are sometimes referred to in this Agreement each as a "" and collectively as the "." WPZ and the General Partner are sometimes collectively referred to as the "."
Agreement
[date]
Effective Date
Williams
WPZ
General Partner
Party
Parties
Partnership Entities
     A. WPZ and its subsidiaries own and operate assets that include natural gas gathering, processing, treating and/or production handling facilities (the "").
Midstream Business
     B. Williams will cause its affiliates (the "") to provide certain personnel necessary to operate, manage, maintain and report the operating results of the Midstream Business;
Williams Entities
     C. All management powers over the business and affairs of WPZ are exclusively vested in the General Partner, and the General Partner is required to conduct, direct and exercise full control over all activities of WPZ, including, among other things, providing various operational and maintenance resources and services;
     D. In connection with the provision of services with respect to the Midstream Business conducted by (each, a ""), Williams desires to second to the General Partner certain personnel employed or contracted by the Williams Entities;
[identify specific midstream entit(ies)]
Midstream Entity
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants, conditions and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
     
1.1 Seconded Employees
.
     (a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Williams agrees to cause the Williams Entities to second to the General Partner, and the General Partner agrees to accept the secondment of, those certain specifically identified individuals (each, a "" and collectively, the "") listed on Exhibit A (the "") for the purpose of performing job functions related to the assets owned by the Midstream Entities (the "").
Seconded Employee
Seconded Employees
Seconded Employee Schedule
Secondment
 
     (b) The Seconded Employees will remain at all times employees of the Williams Entities but, in addition, they will also be temporary employees of the General Partner during the Period of Secondment (as defined below). At all times during the Period of Secondment, the Williams Entities shall instruct each Seconded Employee to comply with all lawful instructions from the General Partner regarding the performance of the Secondment Services (as defined in Section 2 below) and the Seconded Employees shall work under the direction, supervision and control of an officer of the General Partner as regards the performance of the activities under this Agreement. Williams will retain the right to cause the Williams Entities to hire or discharge the Seconded Employees but, subject to the provisions in Section 1.2 or elsewhere in this Agreement, will not have the right to cause the Williams Entities to terminate the Secondment to the General Partner or otherwise exercise direction, supervision or control over the Seconded Employees regarding the performance of the activities that are part of the Secondment Services. For each Seconded Employee, the "" shall be that period of time as set forth in Section 1.2.
Period of Secondment
     (c) The Seconded Employee Schedule sets forth the names of the Seconded Employees seconded by the Williams Entities, the job functions of the Seconded Employees, the starting date for the Period of Secondment for each Seconded Employee, and the names of those Seconded Employees who also provide services to Williams Entities in connection with its operations (""). Except for those designated as "Shared Seconded Employees" on the Seconded Employee Schedule, each Seconded Employee shall have no actual or apparent authority to act on behalf of the Williams Entities during the Period of Secondment. Individuals may be added or removed from the Seconded Employee Schedule from time to time by the execution by the Parties of a completed "" form, the form of which is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit B, which will be fully binding on the Parties for all purposes under this Agreement. Those rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement that relate to individuals who were on the Seconded Employee Schedule but then later removed from the Seconded Employee Schedule, which rights and obligations accrued before the removal of such individual, will survive the removal of such individual from the Seconded Employee Schedule to the extent necessary to enforce such rights and obligations.
Shared Seconded Employees
Addition/Removal/Change of Responsibility of Seconded Employee
     Williams will cause the Williams Entities to second to the General Partner each Seconded Employee on the start date set forth on the Seconded Employee Schedule and continue to second, during the period (and only during the period) that the Seconded Employee is performing services for the General Partner, until the earliest of:
1.2 Period of Secondment.
     (a) the end of the term of this Agreement;
     (b) the end date, if any, set forth for the Seconded Employee on the Seconded Employee Schedule (or another end date for such Seconded Employee as mutually agreed in writing by the Parties) (the "");
End Date
     (c) a withdrawal, departure, resignation or termination of such Seconded Employee under Section 1.3;
 
     (d) the date on which a Williams Entity ceases to own a majority of the issued and outstanding voting equity of the General Partner and the General Partner has entered into satisfactory arrangements which it determines, in good faith, will provide it with suitable qualified and experienced full-time or seconded employees necessary to operate, manage, and maintain the assets of the Midstream Entities; and
     (e) a termination of Secondment for such Seconded Employee under Section 1.4.
     At the end of the Period of Secondment for any Seconded Employee, such Seconded Employee will no longer be subject to the direction of the General Partner with regard to the Seconded Employee's day-to-day activities.
     Williams will use reasonable efforts to cause the Williams Entities to prevent any early withdrawal, departure, resignation or termination of any Seconded Employee prior to the End Date for such Seconded Employee's Period of Secondment. If any Seconded Employee tenders his resignation to a Williams Entity as an employee of such Williams Entity or a Williams Entity terminates or suspends the employment of any Seconded Employee as an employee of such Williams Entity, Williams will promptly notify the General Partner. During the Period of Secondment for any Seconded Employee, Williams will cause the Williams Entities to not voluntarily withdraw any Seconded Employee except with the written consent of the General Partner (which may be through the execution of a completed Addition/Removal/Change of Responsibility of Seconded Employee form), such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. Nothing in this Agreement shall abridge, restrict or limit in any manner Williams' legal right to end a Seconded Employee's employment with Williams and the Williams Entities just as if the Secondment had not occurred. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to be a guarantee of a Seconded Employee's employment with any of Williams or a Williams Entity for any amount of time, including without limitation the time covered by any Period of Secondment. Williams will indemnify, defend and hold harmless the General Partner and its directors, officers and employees against any and all costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees), claims, demands, losses, liabilities, obligations, actions, lawsuits and other proceedings, judgments and awards (each, a "" and collectively, the "") arising out of or in any way connected with or related to the termination of employment with a Williams Entity of any Seconded Employee by that Williams Entity without the consent of THE GENERAL PARTNER, WHICH SHALL NOT BE UNREASONABLY WITHHELD, EVEN THOUGH SUCH LOSS MAY BE CAUSED IN PART BY THE NEGLIGENCE OF ONE OR MORE OF THE PARTNERSHIP ENTITIES, except to the extent that such Losses (i) arise solely out of or result solely from the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of the Partnership Entities, or (ii) arise in connection with the termination of a Seconded Employee for cause. The General Partner and WPZ shall each indemnify, defend and hold harmless Williams, the Williams Entities and each of their directors, officers and employees against any and all Losses arising our of or in any way connected with or related to the resignation of a Seconded Employee that ends such Seconded Employee's Period of Secondment or the exercise by the General Partner of its supervision and control of the day-to-day activities of a Seconded Employee, EVEN THOUGH SUCH LOSS MAY BE CAUSED IN PART BY THE NEGLIGENCE OF ONE OR MORE OF WILLIAMS OR A WILLIAMS ENTITY, except to the extent that such Losses arise solely out of or result solely from the
1.3 Withdrawal, Departure or Resignation
.
Loss
Losses
 
negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of Williams or any of the Williams Entities. Upon the termination of employment, the Seconded Employee will cease performing services for the General Partner.
     The General Partner will have the right to terminate the Secondment to it of any Seconded Employee for any reason at any time. Subject to Sections 1.2 and 1.3, Williams will not have the right to cause any Williams Entity to terminate the Secondment to the General Partner of any Seconded Employee. Upon the termination of a Secondment, the Seconded Employee will cease performing services for the General Partner pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. At no time will the General Partner have the right to terminate the employment with the Williams Entities of the Seconded Employees.
1.4 Termination of Secondment.
     During the Period of Secondment, the General Partner shall:
1.5 Supervision.
     (a) be ultimately and fully responsible for the daily work assignments of the Seconded Employee (and with respect to Shared Seconded Employees during those times that the Shared Seconded Employees are performing services for the General Partner hereunder), including supervision of their day-to-day work activities and performance consistent with the terms stated in Section 1.1 and the job functions set forth in the Seconded Employee Schedule;
     (b) set the hours of work and the holidays and vacation schedules (other than with respect to Shared Seconded Employees, as to which the General Partner and Williams shall jointly determine) for the Seconded Employee, so long as such determinations are not inconsistent with Williams' vacation and personal absence policies and other applicable policies; and
     (c) have the right to determine training which will be received by the Seconded Employee.
     In the course and scope of performing any Seconded Employee's job functions, the Seconded Employee will be integrated into the organization of the General Partner, will report into the General Partner's management structure, and will be under the direct management and supervision of the General Partner. The General Partner shall designate one of its officers, who does not also provide services to Williams in connection with Williams' exploration and production operations, to be responsible for the supervisory function set forth in this Section 1.5 on behalf of the General Partner.
     Williams will cause the Williams Entities to provide such suitably qualified and experienced Seconded Employees as it is able to make available to the General Partner, and the General Partner will have the right to approve or reject each such Seconded Employee.
1.6 Seconded Employee Qualifications; Approval
.
 
     Williams shall cause the Williams Entities to second Seconded Employees to the General Partner to provide the General Partner with certain personnel necessary for WPZ to operate, manage, maintain and report the operating results of the assets owned by the Midstream Entities (the "").
2.1 Secondment Services
.
Secondment Services
     The General Partner may terminate or reduce the level of any of the Secondment Services on 30 days' prior written notice to Williams.
2.2 Cancellation or Reduction of Secondment Services
.
     At all times, Williams will cause the Williams Entities to maintain workers' compensation insurance (either through an insurance company or self-insured arrangement) applicable to the Seconded Employees. Williams will cause the Williams Entities to name the General Partner as an also insured employer under such insurance policy. Prior to being assigned any duties by the General Partner, each Seconded Employee must sign an acknowledgement that the Seconded Employee is an employee during the Secondment Period of both the Williams Entities and the General Partner and that for any work place injury, the Seconded Employee's sole remedy will be under such Williams Entity's workers' compensation insurance policy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall preclude a Seconded Employee from participating in benefit programs generally available to employees of Williams Entities to which they are otherwise eligible and shall not imply that any Seconded Employee is entitled to any employee benefits from the General Partner or any of the Partnership Entities.
2.3 Workers' Compensation
.
     WPZ hereby agrees to reimburse the General Partner on a monthly basis, or such other basis as the General Partner may determine, in accordance with the reimbursement provisions of Section 7.4 of the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of WPZ, dated as of August 23, 2005, as amended or restated from time to time, for the amount of all direct and indirect expenses the General Partner determines are paid or incurred on behalf of the Midstream Entities by the General Partner and the Williams Entities (without duplication) in connection with the performance of the Secondment Services during the preceding month (the ""). The General Partner shall in turn promptly pay over to Williams or its designee that portion of the Services Reimbursement that is Seconded Employee Expenses (as defined in Section 4 below).
Services Reimbursement
     Williams and the Williams Entities shall be solely responsible for establishing the terms of and paying all salary or other payments (included but not limited to all other compensation, all benefits and any expense reimbursements) required to be made to the Seconded Employees pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Seconded Employees' employment with Williams
 
and the Williams Entities, and all administrative expenses associated with the payment and delivery of such Seconded Employees' compensation and benefits, including federal and state income tax withholding, payroll taxes, and the like, and the related reporting and administration of payroll. In addition, Williams and the Williams Entities shall be solely responsible for providing any health insurance, disability insurance, life insurance, workers' compensation coverage (as described in greater detail in Section 2.3), unemployment insurance, participation in and contributions to any pension or profit-sharing plans in which a Seconded Employee is eligible to participate by virtue of employment with a Williams Entity and all other direct and indirect costs attributable to such Seconded Employee's compensation and benefits relating to such Seconded Employee's employment with a Williams Entity. Collectively such costs and expenses incurred by Williams and the Williams Entities for the Seconded Employees shall be referred to as the "" and shall be included with the definition of Services Reimbursement, which obligation to reimburse shall be the primary legal responsibility of the General Partner. No Seconded Employee will be entitled to additional compensation or benefits from the Partnership Entities as a result of the performance of services pursuant to this Agreement. Williams agrees to indemnify and hold the General Partner harmless from any and all Losses incurred by the Partnership Entities, or any of the Midstream Entities related to Williams' failure to carry out its responsibilities for the payment of the Seconded Employee Expenses as set forth above, except to the extent that such Losses arise solely out of or result solely from the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of the Partnership Entities or the Midstream Entities.
Seconded Employee Expenses
     The term of this Agreement will commence on the Effective Date and will continue for an initial period of years. Upon the expiration of the initial year period, the term of this Agreement shall automatically extend for an additional 12 month period, unless either Party provides at least 180 days' prior written notice to the other Party, prior to the expiration of such initial period, that the Party wishes for this Agreement to expire at the end of the initial year period. After the initial 12 month renewal period, the term of this Agreement shall automatically extend for additional 12 month periods, unless either Party provides prior written notice, at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the applicable 12 month period, that the Party wishes for this Agreement to expire at the end of such 12 month period. Upon proper notice by a Party to the other Party, in accordance with this Section 5, that the Party wishes for this Agreement to expire on the expiration of the applicable year or 12 month period, this Agreement shall not automatically extend, but shall instead expire upon the expiration of the applicable year or 12 month period and only those provisions that, by their terms, expressly survive this Agreement shall so survive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the General Partner may terminate this Agreement at any time, upon 180 days prior written notice to Williams, and only those provisions that, by their terms, expressly survive this Agreement shall so survive. Furthermore, this Agreement shall terminate on the date the conditions set forth in Section 1.2(d) are satisfied.
[10]
[10]
[10]
[10]
[10]
 
     A party's obligation under this Agreement, other than an obligation to pay money and the indemnification obligations hereunder, shall be excused when and to the extent its performance of that obligation is prevented due to any cause beyond the reasonable control of a party, including the following causes (unless they are within such party's reasonable control): acts of God, strikes, lockouts, acts of the public enemy, wars or warlike action (whether actual or impending), arrests and other restraints of government (civil or military), blockades, embargoes, insurrections, riots, epidemics, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, sabotage, tornadoes, named tropical storms and hurricanes, floods, civil disturbances, terrorism, mechanical breakdown of machinery or equipment, explosions, confiscation or seizure by any government or other public authority and any order of any court of competent jurisdiction, regulatory agency or governmental body having jurisdiction. The party that is prevented from performing its obligation by reason of one or more of the foregoing events (the "") shall promptly notify the other party of that fact and shall exercise due diligence to end its inability to perform as promptly as practicable. However, in no event shall a Delayed Party be required to settle any strike, lockout, or other labor dispute in which it may be involved, but in the event of a strike, lockout, or other labor dispute affecting the Williams Entities, the Williams Entities shall use reasonable efforts to continue to perform the Secondment Services by utilizing its management personnel and that of its Affiliates (as defined in Section 6.8 below).
6.1 Force Majeure.
Delayed Party
     Except as otherwise provided herein, no Party shall sell, assign, or transfer any of its rights, or delegate any of its obligations, under this Agreement to any person without the prior consent of the other Parties except that such prior consent shall not be required if such sale, assignment, or transfer is to an Affiliate of a Party or in connection with a merger, consolidation, or the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of a Party. Each of the Parties hereto specifically intends that each entity comprising the Williams Entities, the Affiliates of WPZ controlled by WPZ (the ""), and the Midstream Entities, as applicable, whether or not a Party to this Agreement, shall be entitled to assert rights and remedies hereunder as third-party beneficiaries hereto with respect to those provisions of this Agreement affording a right, benefit or privilege to any such entity. Other than as set forth in the preceding sentence, nothing in this Agreement, whether express or implied, is intended or shall be construed to confer, directly or indirectly, upon or give to any person (including any Seconded Employee) other than the Parties, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any covenant, condition or other provision contained herein.
6.2 Assignments.
WPZ Entities
     All notices and other communications that are required or permitted to be given to a party under this Agreement shall be sufficient in all respects if given in writing and delivered in person, by electronic mail, by facsimile, by overnight courier, or by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the receiving party at the following address:
6.3 Notices.
 
or to such other address as such party may have given to the other by notice pursuant to this Section. Notice shall be deemed given on the date of delivery, in the case of personal delivery, electronic mail, or facsimile, or on the delivery or refusal date, as specified on the return receipt in the case of certified mail or on the tracking report in the case of overnight courier.
     The parties shall execute and deliver all documents, provide all information and take or refrain from taking action as may be necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this Agreement.
6.4 Further Assurances.
     This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their heirs, executors, administrators, successors, legal representatives, and permitted assigns.
6.5 Binding Effect.
     If any provision of this Agreement is or becomes invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected thereby.
6.6 Invalidity of Provisions.
     The Parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement, and all services provided under this Agreement, are intended to comply with any and all laws and legal obligations and that this Agreement should be construed and interpreted with this purpose in mind. In this regard, the Parties specifically agree as follows:
6.7 Legal Compliance
.
     (a) The Parties will comply with all equal employment opportunity requirements and other applicable employment laws. Where a joint or combined action is required by the law in order to comply with an employment obligation, the parties will cooperate fully and in good faith to comply with the applicable obligation.
     (b) The General Partner acknowledges and agrees that Seconded Employees may utilize the complaint reporting and resolution process of Williams and agrees to cooperate in the investigation and resolution of any complaint that may be made.
     (c) The Parties agree that they will adhere to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, any comparable state law and any law regulating the payment of wages or
 
compensation. The General Partner is solely responsible for ensuring that non-exempt Seconded Employees accurately record their hours and time worked.
     Nothing in this Agreement shall cause any of Williams, the Williams Entities or the Partnership Entities to become members of any other partnership, joint venture, association, syndicate or other entity. Nothing in this Agreement shall cause any Partnership Entity to be considered a Williams Entity, and vice versa. "" means, with respect to any person, any other person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the person in question, with the term "control" meaning the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
6.8 Relationship of the Parties
.
Affiliate
     No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant, duty, agreement, or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute waiver of any such breach of any other covenant, duty, agreement or condition.
6.9 Waiver.
     This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Oklahoma, without regard to the principles of conflicts of law. The proper venue for any lawsuit shall only exist in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
6.10 Applicable Law.
     If a party shall commence any action or proceeding against another party in order to enforce the provisions of this Agreement or to recover damages as a result of the alleged breach of any of the provisions of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover from the other party all reasonable costs in connection therewith, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
6.11 Attorneys' Fees.
     The terms and condition of this Agreement shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement to the full extent necessary for their enforcement and for the protection of the party in whose favor they operate.
6.12 Survival of Terms and Conditions.
     This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement among the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings pertaining thereto. This Agreement may be amended or modified from time to time only by the written agreement of all the Parties; provided, however, that the General Partner may not, without the prior approval of the Conflicts Committee of the Board of Directors of the General Partner, agree to any amendment or modification of this Agreement that, in the reasonable discretion of the General Partner, will have an adverse effect on the holders of common units of WPZ.
6.13 Integration; Amendments.
     This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. A facsimile or electronic signature to this Agreement shall be deemed an original and binding upon the party against whom enforcement is sought.
6.14 Counterparts.
 
     The parties have executed this Secondment Agreement on, and effective as of , the Effective Date.
                    
 
This Exhibit A is attached to the Secondment Agreement (the "") dated [date] by and between The Williams Companies, Inc., Williams Partners L.P. and Williams Partners GP LLC. All defined terms used herein shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Agreement. All information must be filled in for this form to be valid.
Agreement
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements on Form S-3 and Form S-4, and related prospectuses of The Williams Companies, Inc. and in the following registration statements on Form S-8 of The Williams Companies, Inc., of our report dated January 17, 2010, with respect to the combined financial statements of the Contributed Entities, included in Exhibit 99.2 in this Current Report (Form 8-K) of The Williams Companies, Inc., dated January 19, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
     Form S-3:
          Registration Statement Nos. 333-29185, 333-106504, 333-134293, and 333-159559
     Form S-4:
          Registration Statement No. 333-159558
     Form S-8:
          Registration No. 33-58671  The Williams Companies, Inc. Stock Plan for Nonofficer Employees
          Registration No. 333-03957  The Williams Companies, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors
          Registration No. 333-11151  The Williams Companies, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan
          Registration No. 333-40721  The Williams Companies, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan for Nonofficer Employees
          Registration No. 333-51994  The Williams Companies, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan for Nonofficer Employees
          Registration No. 333-85542  The Williams Investment Plus Plan
          Registration No. 333-85546  The Williams Companies, Inc. 2002 Incentive Plan
          Registration No. 333-142985  The Williams Companies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Tulsa, Oklahoma January 17, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
NYSE: WMB
Jan. 19, 2010
Date:
Williams, Williams Partners Announce Strategic Restructuring to Drive Growth, Value
          TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) and Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ) today announced that Williams plans to contribute its gas pipeline and domestic midstream businesses plus its limited- and general-partner interests in Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (NYSE: WMZ) into Williams Partners. The partnership-transforming restructuring is valued at approximately $12 billion.
          The restructuring transactions have been approved by Williams' Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of the general partner of Williams Partners. The Board of Directors of the general partner of Williams Partners acted upon the recommendation of its independent Conflicts Committee.
          The restructuring is intended to drive additional growth and value for Williams' shareholders and Williams Partners' unitholders. The moves will result in two well-capitalized entities that are better positioned to pursue value-adding growth strategies; both expect to have investment-grade credit ratings.
          Following the closing of the asset contribution transactions, Williams Partners intends to make an exchange offer for the publicly held units of Williams Pipeline Partners.
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010     Page 1 of 11
 
CEO Comments
          "The goal of this strategic restructuring is simple: drive more value-creating growth across our natural gas businesses," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
          "As a large, diversified MLP with expected investment-grade credit ratings, Williams Partners will have significantly enhanced access to capital sources. It will be able to self-fund our Gas Pipeline and Midstream growth  both organically and through third-party acquisitions.
          "With the partnership funding the gas pipeline and midstream businesses, we will have additional capital at the parent-company level to allocate to our exploration and production business," Malcolm said. "The result is a structure that will deliver the most value to Williams' shareholders and Williams Partners' unitholders.
          "The enhanced opportunities for growth across all of our businesses will also help bolster the country's critically important natural gas infrastructure  from production and processing in key growth basins to end-user delivery," Malcolm said. "As the cleanest burning fossil fuel that is also abundant domestically, natural gas will play an important role in both creating jobs and securing the energy future of our country."
Transaction Terms and Details
          The gas pipeline assets Williams will contribute to Williams Partners include 100 percent of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, 65 percent of Northwest Pipeline, and 24.5 percent of Gulfstream Pipeline. Williams will also contribute its general-partner and limited-partner interests in Williams Pipeline Partners, which owns the remaining 35 percent of Northwest Pipeline.
          The midstream assets Williams will contribute include its significant, large-scale operations in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions, as well as its recently added business in Pennsylvania's Marcellus Shale. These assets encompass seven processing trains totaling 2.3 billion cubic feet per day (Bcfd) of capacity in the Rockies and four processing trains on the Gulf Coast. The Gulf Coast processing trains are integrated with five major deepwater oil and gas pipeline systems and two production handling platforms to serve producers in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The midstream assets will also include various equity investments in domestic processing and fractionation assets.
          As consideration for the asset contributions, Williams will receive from Williams Partners cash proceeds of approximately $3.5 billion, less Williams Partners' transaction fees and expenses, plus 203 million Williams Partners limited-partner units and will maintain its 2-percent general-partner interest. Williams Partners also will assume approximately $2 billion of existing debt associated with the gas pipeline assets.
          This transaction is expected to be immediately accretive to Williams Partners' distributable cash flow per L.P. unit and is expected to have no material effect on Williams' previous 2009-11 guidance for recurring earnings or cash flows. Williams expects this restructuring will increase recurring earnings and cash flow in the future as it will be able to pursue a greater number of investment and growth opportunities.
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010     Page 2 of 11
 
Williams Partners to Become Significantly Larger, Self-Funding MLP
          Once the transactions are complete, Williams Partners will be a leading diversified master limited partnership. The more robust partnership, with expected investment-grade credit ratings, will be self-funding with its own retained cash flows and enhanced access to debt and MLP equity markets.
          The partnership will benefit from an asset portfolio that includes large-scale, stable interstate natural gas pipelines and a substantial suite of geographically diverse midstream assets. This portfolio of best-in-class gas pipeline and midstream assets also includes a large number of attractive development projects and business opportunities.
          Williams Partners expects to be well-positioned to pursue both asset and business acquisition opportunities.
Additional Benefits to Williams Partners
Additional benefits to Williams Partners and its unitholders include:
CEO Comments on Benefits to Williams Partners
          "We expect the initial accretion following closing of the transactions to allow us to raise Williams Partners' quarterly cash distribution as well as increase the partnership's peer-leading 2010 distribution coverage ratio to 1.3x at our guidance midpoint," Malcolm said.
          "With our increased size and scale, Williams Partners will now be better positioned to compete with the largest MLPs on attractive growth projects, providing a clear path for additional future value creation and distribution growth for our unitholders," Malcolm said.
Williams' Corporate Structure Simplified
          Upon completion of the transactions, Williams will continue to be an integrated natural gas company, but with a simplified corporate structure.
          Williams will retain its full ownership and control of the general partner of Williams Partners. The restructuring will increase Williams' combined general-partner and limited-partner ownership interest in Williams Partners to approximately 84 percent. Williams' total ownership will decline to approximately 80 percent
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010     Page 3 of 11
 
assuming the successful completion of the exchange offer for Williams Pipeline Partners' publicly held units, which is detailed later in this press release. Williams' current total ownership of Williams Partners is 24 percent.
          The company intends to hold all of its limited-partner and general-partner units for the long term. Williams expects the percentage of its limited-partner ownership interest to decline over time as Williams Partners issues new LP units to the public to finance growth.
          At the parent level, Williams will continue to focus on the success of Williams Partners, given its large ownership position, and its preeminent exploration and production business. Williams is the tenth largest natural gas producer in the United States and its primary production areas are in the Piceance, Powder River, San Juan and Fort Worth basins. Williams also has a growing position in the Marcellus Shale in the Appalachian Basin where it recently began operations.
          Williams will retain the Olefins and Canadian midstream businesses at the parent level, where it plans to continue pursuing growth opportunities. In addition, it will retain the remaining 25.5-percent interest in Gulfstream. Williams is retaining this interest in accordance with certain limitations in Gulfstream's governing documents. This interest would be eligible for contribution to Williams Partners in the future.
Additional Benefits to Williams
The restructuring offers Williams and its shareholders a number of other benefits, including:
Financial Segment Reporting to Change, Consolidated Reporting Unchanged
          As a result of the restructuring, Williams will change its financial-segment reporting structure to align with the new parent-level focus, resource allocation management and related governance provisions. Beginning
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010     Page 4 of 11
 
with reporting in first-quarter 2010, Williams' business segments for financial reporting will be Williams Partners, Exploration & Production and Other. The company's consolidated financial reporting will be unchanged.
          Exploration & Production will include the former Gas Marketing segment and the Other segment will include the Canadian and Olefins midstream businesses and the retained 25.5-percent interest in Gulfstream.
          For Williams Partners' reporting, its business segments will be Gas Pipeline and Midstream.
No Substantial Changes to Management Structures
          The underlying operating management structure at Williams is unchanged. Williams' senior management will also continue to lead Williams Partners, given the partnership's importance to Williams. Senior management providing services to both entities will be as follows:
Williams Partners to Fund Transaction with Private Bond Offering, Establish New Credit Facility
          Williams Partners plans to fund the cash portion of the transaction through a private placement of debt securities. Williams Partners has also secured an underwritten commitment from Citi and Barclays Capital for a new $1.5 billion three-year credit facility. This new facility will provide a significant increase in the partnership's liquidity from its existing $450 million credit facility.
          Williams Partners has reviewed its pro forma capital structure with the rating agencies. The partnership expects to achieve investment-grade credit ratings following the completion of the asset contributions and related bond offering.
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010     Page 5 of 11
 
Williams Tender Offer for Debt
          In connection with the restructuring, Williams intends to commence a cash tender offer for up to $3.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of its corporate debt. Williams expects to fund the bond tender offer principally with the cash proceeds it receives from Williams Partners as consideration for the transaction, and, if necessary, cash on hand.
          Williams has reviewed its pro forma capital structure with the rating agencies and expects to retain its investment-grade ratings following the closing of asset contributions and related bond tender offer.
          Williams intends to reduce the size of its senior unsecured credit facility that expires in May 2012 to approximately $900 million, as Williams Partners will be funding Gas Pipeline and Midstream capital projects. Williams will continue to enjoy the benefits of its other unsecured credit facility that expires in December 2013, which is used to facilitate its natural gas production hedging.
          The asset contribution transactions, Williams' bond tender offer and Williams Partners' bond offering are expected to close in the first quarter of 2010.
Williams Partners' Exchange Offer for Williams Pipeline Partners
          Williams Partners intends to launch an exchange offer for the publicly held units of Williams Pipeline Partners at a future date following the closing of the asset contribution transactions.
          Williams Partners will offer a fixed exchange ratio of 0.7584 of its common units for each Williams Pipeline Partners common unit. The ratio is based on Friday, Jan. 15 closing prices on the New York Stock Exchange of $23.35 for Williams Pipeline Partners and $30.79 for Williams Partners.
          The exact timing of the launch will be based upon the filing of necessary offering documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission and upon market conditions. The terms of the exchange offer will be fully described in those documents.
          The asset contribution transaction, the related Williams bond tender and the Williams Partners bond offering are independent of and not conditioned on the successful completion of the Williams Pipeline Partners exchange offer.
Williams' 2009-11 Guidance Unchanged
          Williams' previous 2009-11 guidance for recurring earnings, cash flow and capital expenditures, which was issued on Oct. 29, 2009, is unchanged. The company will provide an update of its 2010-11 outlook when it reports year-end 2009 earnings on Feb. 18.
          In conjunction with the restructuring transactions, Williams expects to incur estimated nonrecurring charges totaling approximately $425 million, net of tax, in the first quarter of 2010. These are comprised primarily of costs associated with its debt tender offer, including the market-value premium. The company
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010     Page 6 of 11
 
expects lower annual interest expenses associated with the new Williams Partners bond offering to substantially offset the economic effect of the market-value premium over book value.
Williams Partners Announces New 2010-11 Guidance, 2009 Guidance Unchanged
          Williams Partners' previous 2009 guidance for distributable cash flow and cash distribution coverage ratio, which was issued on Oct. 29, 2009, is unchanged.
          Williams Partners is providing its initial 2010-11 guidance and related commodity price assumptions for the post-restructuring partnership in the following chart. The guidance for 2010 is pro-forma for a full year of the partnership in its post-restructuring form.
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010     Page 7 of 11
 
Commodity Price Assumptions and
Average NGL Margins
Williams Partners Pro-Forma Guidance
Note: Pro-forma guidance for 2010 assumes full year in post-restructuring form.
 
Financial and Legal Advisors
     Williams' legal advisor is Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP and financial advisors are Barclays Capital and Citi. The Williams Partners Conflicts Committee's legal advisor is Baker Botts L.L.P. and its financial advisor is Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. Securities, Inc..
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010      Page 8 of 11
 
Investor/Analyst Call Details
          Management will discuss the restructuring during a live webcast beginning at 10 a.m. EST today. Participants are encouraged to access the webcast at or . Slides are now available for viewing, downloading and printing on both web sites.
www.williams.com
www.williamslp.com
          A limited number of phone lines also will be available at (888) 503-8171. International callers should dial (719) 457-2646.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
About Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ)
Williams Partners L.P. is a publicly traded master limited partnership that owns natural gas gathering, transportation, processing and treating assets serving regions where producers require large scale and highly reliable services, including the Gulf of Mexico, the San Juan Basin in New Mexico and Colorado, and the Washakie Basin in Wyoming. The partnership also serves the natural gas liquids (NGL) market through its NGL fractionating and storage assets. The general partner is Williams Partners GP LLC. More information about the partnership is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williamslp.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=1296&to=ea&s=0
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010      Page 9 of 11
 
beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Feb. 25, 2009, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at .
www.williams.com
Williams Partners L.P. is a limited partnership formed by The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams). Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will," or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010      Page 10 of 11
 
materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. The reader should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below in addition to the other information in this report. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Many of the factors that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2009, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at .
www.williamslp.com
Important Information
This document is provided for informational purposes only and is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell units of Williams Partners L.P. ("WPZ") or Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. ("WMZ"). WPZ intends to file a registration statement and tender offer documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in connection with the proposed exchange offer for the outstanding common units of WMZ. Those documents, when filed, may be obtained without charge at the SEC's website at . Such documents may also be obtained without charge from WPZ by directing such request to: Williams Partners L.P., One Williams Center, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172, Attention: Investor Relations.
WMZ unit holders should read those filings, and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction, because they will contain important information.
www.sec.gov
Williams (NYSE: WMB), Williams Partners (NYSE: WPZ) Announce Strategic Restructuring  Jan. 19, 2010      Page 11 of 11

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The Board of Directors of
The Williams Companies, Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of the Contributed Entities, as defined in Note 1, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related combined statements of income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of The Williams Companies, Inc.'s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Contributed Entities' internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Contributed Entities' internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of the Contributed Entities at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the combined results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Tulsa, Oklahoma
January 17, 2010
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The accompanying combined financial statements and related notes present the combined financial position, results of operations, cash flows and changes in equity of the following entities that make up the Gas Pipeline and Midstream Gas & Liquids business segments of The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams) to the extent not already owned by Williams Partners L.P. (Williams Partners), including Williams' limited and general partner interests in Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (Pipeline Partners), but excluding its Canadian, Venezuelan and olefins operations, and 25.5% of Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. See Note 3 for a discussion of transactions with related parties.
 
Wholly-owned subsidiaries:
 
Marsh Resources, LLC Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries (Transco) WGP Development, LLC WGPC Holdings LLC and its consolidated subsidiary Williams Energy Solutions, Inc. Williams Field Services Group, LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries (WFSG) Williams Mobile Bay Producers Services, LLC Williams NGL Marketing, LLC Williams Pacific Connector Gas Operator, LLC Williams Pipeline GP LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries Williams Pipeline Services Company
 
Equity investees:
 
24.5% membership interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. 31.45% membership interest in Baton Rouge Fractionators, LLC 29.98% membership interest in Pacific Connector Gas Pipeline, LP 29.98% membership interest in Pacific Connector Gas Pipeline, LLC
 
These combined financial statements are prepared in connection with the proposed acquisition of these entities and investments (Contributed Entities) by Williams Partners as contemplated in the Contribution Agreement by and among Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC, Williams Energy Services, LLC, WGP Gulfstream Pipeline Company, L.L.C., Williams Partners GP LLC (the Contributing Parties), Williams Partners and Williams Partners Operating LLC dated January 15, 2010 (the Contribution Agreement).
 
The accompanying unaudited interim combined financial statements include all normal recurring adjustments that, in the opinion of our management, are necessary to present fairly our financial position at September 30, 2009, and the results of operations and cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2009.
 
We have evaluated our disclosure of subsequent events through January 17, 2010.
 
Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, references in this report to "we," "our," "us" or similar language refer to the Contributed Entities. Our operations are located in the United States and are organized into the following reporting segments: Gas Pipeline and Midstream Gas & Liquids (Midstream).
 
Gas Pipeline includes the following interstate natural gas pipeline assets:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Midstream is currently comprised of the following natural gas gathering, processing and treating facilities located primarily in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions of the United States and oil gathering and transportation facilities in the Gulf Coast region of the United States:
 
 
The Cameron Meadows processing plant was subsequently sold in November 2009. See Note 18.
 
 
Principles of consolidation
 
The combined financial statements include both the accounts of the wholly-owned subsidiaries and the equity investments of Williams noted above. We eliminated all intercompany accounts and transactions. We apply the equity method of accounting for investments in unconsolidated companies in which we and our subsidiaries own 20% to 50% of the voting interest or otherwise exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies of the company. The 51% investment in Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC held by WFSG is accounted for under the equity method due to the significant participatory rights of our partner such that we do not control the investment.
 
On December 11, 2007, we distributed ownership interests in Wamsutter valued at $750 million (with an historical net book value of $278 million) to Williams, who, in turn, sold those ownership interests to Williams Partners. Certain of Williams Partners' interests in Wamsutter have preference in the first $70 million of annual distributions. At December 31, 2008, we and Williams Partners own 35% and 65%, respectively, of the Wamsutter nonpreferential interest, subject to change based on the level of capital projects funded by us and Williams Partners (changed annually as projects are put into service). We consolidate our ownership interest in Wamsutter because we are the operator and the voting provisions of Wamsutter's limited liability company agreement provides our interests with control. See Note 13 for further discussion of the Wamsutter ownership interests.
 
In January 2008, Pipeline Partners completed an initial public offering of 16.25 million common units at a price of $20 per unit. In February 2008, the underwriters exercised their right to purchase an additional 1.65 million common units at the same price. The initial asset of the partnership is a 35% interest in Northwest Pipeline. As a result of these transactions, we now own approximately 47.7% of the interests in Pipeline Partners, including the interests of the general partner (Williams Pipeline GP LLC), which is wholly owned by us, and incentive distribution rights. We consolidate Pipeline Partners within our Gas Pipeline segment due to our control through the general partner.
Table of Contents
 
 
Use of estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the combined financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Estimates and assumptions which, in the opinion of management, are significant to the underlying amounts included in the combined financial statements and for which it would be reasonably possible that future events or information could change those estimates include:
 
 
These estimates are discussed further throughout these notes.
 
Regulatory accounting
 
Transco and Northwest Pipeline are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Their rates established by the FERC are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated services, and their competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. Therefore, our management has determined that it is appropriate for Transco and Northwest Pipeline to account for and report regulatory assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which their rates are established. Accounting for these businesses that are regulated can differ from the accounting requirements for non-regulated businesses. These differences are discussed further throughout these notes.
 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
Our balance includes amounts primarily invested in funds with high-quality, short-term securities and instruments that are issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government. These have maturity dates of three months or less when acquired.
cash and cash equivalents
 
Accounts receivable
 
are carried on a gross basis, with no discounting, less the allowance for doubtful accounts. We do not recognize an allowance for doubtful accounts at the time the revenue which generates the accounts receivable is recognized. We estimate the allowance for doubtful accounts based on existing economic conditions, the financial conditions of the customers and the amount and age of past due accounts. Receivables are considered past due if full payment is not received by the contractual due date. Past due accounts are generally written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts only after all collection attempts have been exhausted.
Accounts receivable
 
Inventory valuation
 
All are stated at the lower of cost or market. We determine the cost of certain natural gas inventories held by Transco using the first-out (LIFO) cost method. We determine the cost of the remaining inventories primarily using the average-cost method. LIFO inventory at December 31, 2007 and 2008 was $55,000 and $11 million, respectively.
inventories
last-in,
Table of Contents
 
 
Property, plant and equipment
 
is recorded at cost.  We base the carrying value of these assets on estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to capitalized costs, useful lives and salvage values. Ordinary maintenance and repair costs are generally expensed as incurred. Costs of major renewals and replacements are capitalized.
Property, plant and equipment
 
As regulated entities, Transco and Northwest Pipeline provide for depreciation using the straight-line method at FERC-prescribed rates. Depreciation for nonregulated entities is provided primarily on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives, except for certain offshore facilities that apply a declining balance method.
 
Northwest Pipeline's levelized rate design for a 2003 pipeline expansion project created a revenue stream that remains constant over the related and customer contract terms. The related levelized depreciation is lower than book depreciation in the early years and higher than book depreciation in the later years of the contract terms. The depreciation component of the levelized incremental rates will equal the accumulated book depreciation by the end of the primary contract terms. FERC has approved the accounting for the differences between book depreciation and the levelized depreciation as a regulatory asset with the offsetting credit recorded to a regulatory credit. Regulatory credits totaling $4 million in 2007 and $3 million in 2008 are recorded in the accompanying . The accompanying reflect the related regulatory assets of $26 million, $28 million and $30 million at December 31, 2007 and 2008 and September 30, 2009, respectively. Such amounts will be amortized over the primary terms of the shipper agreements as such costs are collected through rates.
25-year
15-year
Combined Statements of Income
Combined Balance Sheets
 
Gains or losses from the ordinary sale or retirement of property, plant and equipment for regulated pipelines are credited or charged to accumulated depreciation; other gains or losses are recorded in included in .
other (income) expense  net
operating income
 
We record an asset and a liability upon incurrence equal to the present value of each expected future asset retirement obligation (ARO). The ARO asset is depreciated in a manner consistent with the depreciation of the underlying physical asset. The regulated pipelines record the ARO asset depreciation offset to a regulatory asset. We measure changes in the liability due to passage of time by applying an interest method of allocation. This amount is recognized as an increase in the carrying amount of the liability and as a corresponding accretion expense included in , except for regulated entities, for which the liability is offset by a regulatory asset. The regulatory asset is amortized commensurate with our collection of those costs in rates.
costs and operating expenses
 
Derivative instruments and hedging activities
 
We utilize derivatives to manage a portion of our commodity price risk. These instruments consist primarily of swap agreements, option contracts and forward contracts involving short- and long-term purchases and sales of physical energy commodities. The counterparty to certain of these instruments is a Williams affiliate.
 
We report the fair value of derivatives, except for those for which the normal purchases and normal sales exception has been elected, on the in and as either current or noncurrent. We determine the current and noncurrent classification based on the timing of expected future cash flows of individual contracts. We report these amounts on a gross basis.
Combined Balance Sheets
other current assets, other assets and deferred charges, accrued liabilities
other liabilities and deferred income
Table of Contents
 
 
The accounting for changes in the fair value of a commodity derivative depends on whether the derivative has been designated in a hedging relationship and whether we have elected the normal purchases and normal sales exception. The accounting for the change in fair value can be summarized as follows:
 
 
We have elected the normal purchases and normal sales exception for certain short- and long-term purchases and sales of physical energy commodities. Under accrual accounting, any change in the fair value of these derivatives is not reflected on the balance sheet after the initial election of the exception.
 
We have designated a hedging relationship for certain commodity derivatives. For a derivative to qualify for designation in a hedging relationship, it must meet specific criteria and we must maintain appropriate documentation. We establish hedging relationships pursuant to our risk management policies. We evaluate the hedging relationships at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis to determine whether the hedging relationship is, and is expected to remain, highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the underlying risk being hedged. We also regularly assess whether the hedged forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. If a derivative ceases to be or is no longer expected to be highly effective, or if we believe the likelihood of occurrence of the hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively, and future changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized currently in .
revenues
 
For commodity derivatives designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is reported in and reclassified into earnings in the period in which the hedged item affects earnings. Any ineffective portion of the derivative's change in fair value is recognized currently in Gains or losses deferred in associated with terminated derivatives, derivatives that cease to be highly effective hedges, derivatives for which the forecasted transaction is reasonably possible but no longer probable of occurring, and cash flow hedges that have been otherwise discontinued remain in until the hedged item affects earnings. If it becomes probable that the forecasted transaction designated as the hedged item in a cash flow hedge will not occur, any gain or loss deferred in is recognized in at that time. The change in likelihood is a judgmental decision that includes qualitative assessments made by management.
other comprehensive income (loss)
revenues.
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
revenues
 
For commodity derivatives that are not designated in a hedging relationship, and for which we have not elected the normal purchases and normal sales exception, we report changes in fair value currently in .
revenues
 
Certain gains and losses on derivative instruments included in the are netted together to a single net gain or loss, while other gains and losses are reported on a gross basis. Gains and losses recorded on a net basis include:
Combined Statements of Income
 
 
Gains and losses realized through the settlement of derivatives that require physical delivery are recorded on a gross basis. In reaching our conclusions on this presentation, we evaluated whether we act as principal in
Table of Contents
 
 
the transaction; whether we have the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk; and whether we have latitude in establishing prices.
 
Gas Pipeline revenues
 
Gas Pipeline revenues are primarily from services pursuant to long-term firm transportation and storage agreements. These agreements provide for a demand charge based on the volume of contracted capacity and a commodity charge based on the volume of gas delivered, both at rates specified in our FERC tariffs. We recognize revenues for demand charges ratably over the contract period regardless of the volume of natural gas that is transported or stored. Revenues for commodity charges, from both firm and interruptible transportation services, and storage injection and withdrawal services are recognized when natural gas is delivered at the agreed upon delivery point or when natural gas is injected or withdrawn from the storage facility.
 
As a result of the ratemaking process, certain revenues collected by us may be subject to refunds upon the issuance of final orders by the FERC in pending rate proceedings. We record estimates of rate refund liabilities considering our and other third-party regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel and other risks.
 
Midstream revenues
 
Natural gas gathering and processing services are performed under volumetric-based fee contracts, keep-whole agreements and percent-of-liquids arrangements. Revenues under volumetric-based fee contracts are recorded when services have been performed. Under keep-whole and percent-of-liquids processing contracts, we retain the rights to all or a portion of the NGLs extracted from the producers' natural gas stream and recognize revenues when the extracted NGLs are sold and delivered.
 
We also market NGLs that we purchase from our producer customers. Revenues from marketing NGLs are recognized when the products have been sold and delivered.
 
Impairment of long-lived assets and investments
 
We evaluate the long-lived assets of identifiable business activities for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in our management's judgment, that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. When an indicator of impairment has occurred, we compare our management's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether the carrying value of the assets is recoverable. We apply a probability-weighted approach to consider the likelihood of different cash flow assumptions and possible outcomes including selling in the near term or holding for the remaining estimated useful life. If the carrying value is not recoverable, we determine the amount of the impairment recognized in the financial statements by estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss for the amount that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.
 
For assets identified to be disposed of in the future and considered held for sale, we compare the carrying value to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell to determine if recognition of an impairment is required. Until the assets are disposed of, the estimated fair value, which includes estimated cash flows from operations until the assumed date of sale, is recalculated when related events or circumstances change.
 
We evaluate our investments for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in our management's judgment, that the carrying value of such investments may have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in value. When evidence of loss in value has occurred, we compare our estimate of fair value of the investment to the carrying value of the investment to determine whether an impairment has occurred. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value and we consider the decline in value to be other-than-temporary, the excess of the carrying value over the fair value is recognized in the combined financial statements as an impairment.
Table of Contents
 
 
Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our management's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows and an asset's fair value. Additionally, judgment is used to determine the probability of sale with respect to assets considered for disposal. The use of alternate judgments assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the combined financial statements.
and/or
 
Capitalization of interest
 
We generally capitalize interest during construction on major projects with construction periods of at least three months and a total project cost in excess of $1 million. Our regulated operations capitalize interest on all projects. Interest is capitalized on borrowed funds and, where regulation by the FERC exists, on internally generated funds. Interest capitalized on internally generated funds reported as a component of was $12 million and $5 million in 2007 and 2008, respectively, and $4 million and $7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2009, respectively. The rates used by regulated companies are calculated in accordance with FERC rules. Historically, Williams provided the financing for capital expenditures of the nonregulated companies; hence, the rates used by nonregulated companies were based on Williams' average interest rate on debt during the applicable period of time.
other income  net
 
Income taxes
 
Our operations are currently included in the Williams' consolidated federal income tax return. Following the acquisition by Williams Partners, our operations will be treated as a partnership. Therefore, other than Transco and Northwest Pipeline, our historical operations exclude income taxes for all periods presented. Transco and Northwest Pipeline converted from corporations to limited liability companies on December 31, 2008 and October 1, 2007, respectively, and are not subject to income taxes after those respective dates. The effect of Transco and Northwest Pipeline's change in tax status is included in the in the respective period of the change.
provision (benefit) for income taxes
 
During 2006, the state of Texas passed a law that imposed a tax on us beginning in 2007 based on the net revenues of our assets apportioned to the state of Texas. This tax is included in the
partnership-level
provision (benefit) for income taxes.
 
Earnings per share
 
During the periods presented, the controlling interest in the Contributed Entities was held by Williams. Accordingly, we have not calculated earnings per share.
 
Issuance of equity of consolidated subsidiary
 
Sales of residual equity interests in a consolidated subsidiary are accounted for as capital transactions. No adjustments to equity are made for sales of preferential interests in a subsidiary. No gain or loss is recognized on these transactions.
 
Accounting standards issued but not yet effective
 
In August 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820)  Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value." This Update provides clarification that in circumstances in which a quoted price in an active market for the identical liability is not available, a reporting entity is required to measure fair value using one or more prescribed techniques. The amendments in this Update also clarify that when estimating the fair value of a liability, a reporting entity is not required to include a separate input or adjustment to other inputs relating to the existence of a restriction that prevents the transfer of the liability. Additionally, this Update clarifies that both a quoted price in an active market for the identical liability at the measurement date and the quoted price for the identical liability when traded as an asset in an active market when no adjustments to the quoted price of the asset are required are Level 1 fair
No. 2009-5,
Table of Contents
 
 
value measurements. The guidance provided in this Update is effective for us beginning with the fourth quarter of 2009. This Update will not materially impact our Combined Financial Statements.
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, "Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)" (SFAS No. 167). This Statement amends Interpretation 46(R) to require an entity to perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether the entity's variable interest or interests give it a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity (VIE). This analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the entity that has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE. SFAS No. 167 amends Interpretation 46(R) to replace the quantitative-based risks and rewards approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE. SFAS No. 167 is effective as of the beginning of an entity's first annual reporting period that begins after November 15, 2009 and for interim periods within that first annual reporting period. Earlier application is prohibited. We are assessing the application of this Statement on our Combined Financial Statements, but we do not expect it to have a material impact.
 
 
Many of the Combined Entities have entered into Personnel Services Agreements with Williams for the employees of our operated assets. Under these agreements, Williams is the employer primarily for payroll, benefits and administrative operations and the Contributed Entities are the employers primarily with respect to business operations. Williams directly charges us for the payroll and benefit costs associated with the operations employees and carries the obligations for many employee-related benefits in its financial statements, including the liabilities related to the employee retirement and medical plans. Our share of those costs is charged to us through affiliate billings and reflected in in the accompanying . The Contribution Agreement contemplates that our employees will be transferred to services companies, and we will no longer have employees; therefore, we have presented these costs as affiliate expenses in the table below consistent with how they will be presented subsequent to the proposed transaction.
costs and operating expenses
Combined Statements of Income
 
In addition, all of our general and administrative employees are employees of Williams, and we are charged for certain administrative expenses incurred by Williams. These charges are either directly identifiable or allocated to our operations. Direct charges are for goods and services provided by Williams at our request. Allocated charges are based on a three-factor formula, which considers revenues; property, plant and equipment; and payroll. Our share of direct administrative expenses is reflected in and our share of allocated administrative expenses is reflected in in the accompanying . In management's estimation, the allocation methodologies used are reasonable and result in a reasonable allocation to us of our costs of doing business incurred by Williams.
selling, general and administrative expense,
general corporate expenses
Combined Statements of Income
 
include revenues from transportation and exchange services and rental of communication facilities with subsidiaries of Williams. The rates charged to provide sales and services to affiliates are comparable to those that are charged to similarly-situated nonaffiliated customers.
Gas Pipeline revenues
 
include revenues from the following types of transactions with affiliates:
Midstream revenues
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
also include charges for the following types of transactions with affiliates:
Costs and operating expenses
 
 
Below is a summary of the related party transactions discussed above.
 
 
The and on the represent the receivable and payable positions that result from the transactions with affiliates other than Williams discussed above.
accounts receivable  affiliate
accounts payable  affiliate
Combined Balance Sheets
 
We periodically enter into financial swap contracts with WGM to hedge forecasted NGL sales. These contracts are priced based on market rates at the time of execution and are reflected in and on the (see Note 15).
other current assets, other assets and deferred charges
accrued liabilities
Combined Balance Sheets
 
We historically participated in Williams' cash management program under unsecured promissory note agreements with Williams for both advances to and from Williams. As of December 31, 2007 and 2008 and September 30, 2009, the net advances to Williams are classified in the as follows:
Combined Balance Sheets
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Under the Contribution Agreement, the outstanding advances will be distributed to Williams. Changes in the advances to Williams are presented as distributions to Williams in the and .
Combined Statement of Changes in Equity
Combined Statements of Cash Flows
 
In June 2009, we issued a $26 million note payable to Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC, an equity method investee, in connection with its formation.
 
 
The following table presents significant gains or losses from asset sales, impairments and other accruals or adjustments reflected in within .
other (income) expense  net
segment costs and expenses
 
 
 
Many of the Contributed Entities currently participate in employee benefit plans sponsored by Williams that provide benefits to their employees. The Contribution Agreement contemplates that our employees will be transferred to services companies as discussed in Note 3, and we will no longer be participants in Williams' employee benefit plans. Williams will charge us for the benefits costs associated with providing these benefits to employees.
 
Pension plans
 
We currently participate in noncontributory defined benefit pension plans sponsored by Williams that provide pension benefits for eligible participants. Pension expense for 2007 and 2008 totaled $12 million and $10 million, respectively. At the total Williams plan level, the pension plans had a projected benefit obligation of $896 million and $1,035 million at December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively. The plans were overfunded by $178 million at December 31, 2007 and underfunded by $330 million at December 31, 2008.
Table of Contents
 
 
Postretirement benefits other than pensions
 
We currently participate in a plan sponsored by Williams that provides certain retiree health care and life insurance benefits for eligible participants that generally were employed by Williams on or before December 31, 1991, or December 31, 1995, if they were employees or retirees of Transco Energy Company and its subsidiaries. The accounting for the plan anticipates future cost-sharing changes to the plan that are consistent with Williams' expressed intent to increase the retiree contribution level, generally in line with health care cost increases. Net periodic postretirement benefit expense for 2007 and 2008 totaled $5 million and $5 million, respectively. At the total Williams plan level, the postretirement benefit plans had a projected benefit obligation of $284 million and $273 million at December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively. The plans were underfunded by $92 million and $147 million at December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively.
 
Any differences between the annual expense and amounts currently being recovered in rates are recorded as an adjustment to revenues and collected or refunded through future rate adjustments. A regulatory asset can be recorded only to the extent it is currently funded.
 
Defined contribution plan
 
Our employees participate in a Williams defined contribution plan. We recognized compensation expense of $10 million and $11 million in 2007 and 2008, respectively, for Williams' matching contributions to this plan.
 
Employee Stock-Based Compensation Plan Information
 
The Williams Companies, Inc. 2007 Incentive Plan (Plan) was approved by stockholders on May 17, 2007. The Plan provides for Williams common-stock-based awards to both employees and nonmanagement directors. The Plan permits the granting of various types of awards including, but not limited to, stock options and deferred stock. Awards may be granted for no consideration other than prior and future services or based on certain financial performance targets being achieved.
 
Williams currently bills us directly for compensation expense related to stock-based compensation awards granted directly to our employees based on the fair value of the options. We are also billed for our proportionate share of Williams' stock-based compensation expense though various allocation processes.
 
Total stock-based compensation expense, included in administrative and general expenses, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 was $9 million and $7 million, respectively, excluding amounts allocated from Williams.
 
 
Transco and Northwest Pipeline converted to single member limited liability companies on December 31, 2008 and October 1, 2007, respectively. Each made an election to be treated as a disregarded entity; therefore, they were no longer subject to income tax as of their respective conversion date. The shown herein for 2007 includes Northwest Pipeline's (benefit) provision through September 30, 2007, and the 2008 includes Transco's (benefit) provision through December 31, 2008. Subsequent to the conversion, all deferred taxes were eliminated through income and Transco and Northwest Pipeline no longer provide for income taxes.
provision (benefit) for income taxes
provision (benefit) for income taxes
Table of Contents
 
 
The includes:
provision (benefit) for income taxes
 
 
Reconciliations from the provision for income taxes at the federal statutory rate to the realized are as follows:
provision (benefit) for income taxes
 
 
During the next twelve months, we do not expect to have a material impact on our financial position for settlement of any unrecognized tax benefit associated with matters under audit.
Table of Contents
 
 
Significant components of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2008, are as follows:
 
 
We recognized related interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense. The amounts accrued for interest and penalties were immaterial.
 
As of December 31, 2008, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations of consolidated Williams U.S. income tax returns for 2006 and 2007 were in process. IRS examinations for 1997 through 2005 have been completed at the field level but the years remain open for certain unresolved issues. The statute of limitations for most states expires one year after expiration of the IRS statute. During the next twelve months, we do not expect ultimate resolution of any unrecognized tax benefit to have a material impact on our financial position.
 
Net cash payments made to Williams for income taxes were $93 million and $77 million in 2007 and 2008, respectively.
 
 
at December 31, 2007 and 2008 and at September 30, 2009 are as follows:
Inventories
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
being accounted for using the equity method at December 31, 2007 and 2008 are as follows:
Investments
 
 
Differences between the carrying value of our equity investments and the underlying equity in the net assets of the investees are primarily related to $30 million of impairments previously recognized.
 
Dividends and distributions, including those presented below, received from companies accounted for by the equity method were $48 million in 2007 and $64 million in 2008. These transactions reduced the carrying value of our investments. These dividends and distributions primarily included:
 
 
In addition, we contributed $19 million and $44 million to Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. in 2007 and 2008, respectively. In June 2009, we acquired a 51% ownership interest in Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC (LMM) for $131 million.
 
Guarantees on behalf of investees
 
We have provided guarantees on behalf of certain entities in which we have an equity ownership interest. These generally guarantee operating performance measures and the maximum potential future exposure cannot be determined. There are no expiration dates associated with these guarantees. No amounts have been accrued at December 31, 2008 and 2007 related to these guarantees.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
at December 31, 2007 and 2008 is as follows:
Property, plant and equipment  net
 
 
 
 
Depreciation and amortization expense for was $432 million and $458 million in 2007 and 2008, respectively.
property, plant and equipment  net
 
Regulated includes approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2008 related to amounts in excess of the original cost of the regulated facilities within Gas Pipeline as a result of our prior acquisitions. This amount is being amortized over 40 years using the straight-line amortization method. Current FERC policy does not permit recovery through rates for amounts in excess of original cost of construction.
property, plant and equipment
 
Asset retirement obligations
 
During 2007 and 2008, our overall asset retirement obligation changed as follows:
 
 
The 2008 increase in the obligations associated with changes in estimates reflects additional information available regarding the estimated timing and settlement costs in both our Gas Pipeline and Midstream segments. The accrued obligations relate to gas transmission facilities, underground storage caverns, offshore platforms, fractionation facilities and gas gathering well connections and pipelines. At the end of the useful life of each respective asset, we are legally obligated to remove certain components of gas transmission facilities from the ground, plug storage caverns and remove any related surface equipment, remove surface
Table of Contents
 
 
equipment and restore land at fractionation facilities, dismantle offshore platforms, cap certain gathering pipelines at the wellhead connection and remove any related surface equipment.
 
Beginning in 2009, measurements of asset retirement obligations include, as a component of future expected costs, an estimate of the price that a third party would demand, and could expect to receive, for bearing the uncertainties inherent in the obligations, sometimes referred to as a market-risk premium.
 
 
The regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities included in at December 31, 2007 and 2008 are as follows:
Combined Balance Sheets
 
 
Regulatory assets are included in and . Regulatory liabilities are included in and .
regulatory assets
other assets and deferred charges
other noncurrent liabilities and deferred income
accrued liabilities
 
 
Under our cash-management system with Williams, certain cash accounts reflected negative balances to the extent checks written have not been presented for payment. These negative balances represent obligations and have been reclassified to includes approximately $29 million and $22 million of these negative balances at December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively.
accounts payable. Accounts payable
 
at December 31, 2007 and 2008 are as follows:
Accrued liabilities
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Long-Term Debt
 
at December 31, 2007 and 2008 and September 30, 2009 is:
Long-term debt
 
 
 
 
Revolving credit and letter of credit facilities (credit facilities)
 
Williams has an unsecured, $1.5 billion credit facility with a maturity date of May 1, 2012. Currently, Transco and Northwest Pipeline each have access to $400 million under the credit facility to the extent not otherwise utilized by Williams. Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., which is committed to fund up to $70 million of the $1.5 billion credit facility, filed for bankruptcy in 2008. Williams expects that its ability to borrow under the credit facility is reduced by this committed amount. Consequently, we expect both Transco's and Northwest Pipeline's ability to borrow under the credit facility is reduced by approximately $18 million. The committed amounts of other participating banks under this agreement remain in effect and are not impacted by the above. As of September 30, 2009, letters of credit totaling $222 million, none of which are associated with Transco or Northwest Pipeline, have been issued by the participating institutions. There were no revolving credit loans outstanding as of September 30, 2009. Concurrently with the proposed acquisition of the Contributed Entities by Williams Partners, Transco's and Northwest Pipeline's ability to borrow under this facility is expected to be replaced with similar borrowing capacity under a new credit facility.
 
Interest is calculated based on a choice of two methods: a fluctuating rate equal to the lender's base rate plus an applicable margin, or a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR plus an applicable margin. Williams is required to pay a commitment fee (currently 0.125%) based on the unused portion of the credit facility. The margins and commitment fee are generally based on the specific borrower's senior unsecured long-term debt ratings.
 
The credit facility contains certain affirmative covenants and a number of restrictions on the business of the borrowers, including Transco and Northwest. These restrictions include restrictions on the borrowers' ability to grant liens securing indebtedness, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets and incurrence of indebtedness. Significant financial covenants under the credit agreement include the following:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The credit facility also contains events of default tied to all borrowers which in certain circumstances would cause all lending under the credit facility to terminate and all indebtedness outstanding under the credit facility to be accelerated.
 
Issuances and retirements
 
On January 15, 2008, Transco retired $100 million of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2008, with proceeds borrowed under Williams' $1.5 billion unsecured credit facility.
 
On April 15, 2008, Transco retired a $75 million adjustable rate unsecured note due April 15, 2008, with proceeds borrowed under Williams' $1.5 billion unsecured credit facility.
 
On May 22, 2008, Transco issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.05% senior unsecured notes due 2018 to certain institutional investors in a Rule 144A private debt placement. A portion of these proceeds was used to repay Transco's $100 million and $75 million loans from January 2008 and April 2008, respectively, under Williams' $1.5 billion unsecured credit facility. In September 2008, Transco completed an exchange of these notes for substantially identical new notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
On May 22, 2008, Northwest issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.05% senior unsecured notes due 2018 to certain institutional investors in a Rule 144A private debt placement. These proceeds were used to repay Northwest's $250 million loan from December 2007 under Williams' $1.5 billion unsecured credit facility. In September 2008, Northwest completed an exchange of these notes for substantially identical new notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
On June 1, 2009, we issued a $26 million note payable to LMM in connection with LMM's formation. The note is due through 2012 with interest rates of 8.00% to 10.00%.
 
As of December 31, 2008, aggregate minimum maturities of (excluding unamortized discount and premium) for each of the next five years are as follows:
long-term debt
 
 
Cash payments for interest (net of amounts capitalized) were as follows: 2007  $136 million; 2008  $142 million.
 
Leases-Lessee
 
On October 23, 2003, Transco entered into a lease agreement for space in the Williams Tower in Houston, Texas (Williams Tower). The lease term runs through March 31, 2014.
 
Northwest entered into a leveraged lease agreement for its headquarters building, which became effective during 1982. The agreement had an initial term of approximately 27 years, with options for consecutive renewal terms of approximately 9 years and 10 years. As required by the terms of the lease, Northwest exercised its option to renew the term of the lease for approximately 9 years, beginning October 1, 2009. The major component of the lease payment is set through the initial and first renewal terms of the lease. Various
Table of Contents
 
 
purchase options exist under the building lease, including options involving adverse regulatory developments. Northwest subleases portions of its headquarters building to third parties under agreements with varying terms.
 
Future minimum annual rentals under noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2008, are payable as follows:
 
 
Effective October 1, 2009, Northwest Pipeline assigned its headquarters building lease to another party and, concurrently, entered into a new sublease agreement with that party. This arrangement decreased the future minimum rentals by $1 million annually.
 
Total rent expense, net of sublease revenues, was $15 million in 2007 and $19 million in 2008.
 
 
Wamsutter
 
The noncontrolling interests in Wamsutter at December 31, 2008 represent its Class A membership interests and 65% of its Class C membership interests, both of which are held by Williams Partners. We hold Wamsutter's Class B membership interests and 35% of its Class C membership interests, operate the assets and fund the significant expansion capital expenditures. Class C units are issued to Class A and Class B members based on their funding of expansion capital expenditures placed in service.
 
The Class A membership interests are entitled to $70 million of distributions and net income allocation annually before the Class C membership interests. Of the remaining cash available for distribution, 5% is distributed to the holder of the Class A membership interest and 95% is distributed to holders of the Class C units on a basis. Net income is allocated between the Class A and Class C membership interests in a similar manner as the cash distributions. Our Class B membership interests does not receive distributions or net income allocations.
pro rata
 
Pipeline Partners
 
The noncontrolling interests in Pipeline Partners represent its common units held by the public. We hold 47.7% of the interests in Pipeline Partners, including common units, subordinated units, the general partner interest and incentive distribution rights. The common units are entitled to a minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2875 per unit.
 
 
Fair value is the amount received to sell an asset or the amount paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants (an exit price) at the measurement date. Fair value is a market-based measurement considered from the perspective of a market participant. We use market data or assumptions that
Table of Contents
 
 
we believe market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation. These inputs can be readily observable, market corroborated, or unobservable. We apply both market and income approaches for recurring fair value measurements using the best available information while utilizing valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.
 
Effective January 1, 2008, we implemented new accounting guidance for our assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. As a result, we changed our valuation methodology to consider our nonperformance risk in estimating the fair value of our liabilities. Effective January 1, 2009, we applied these new fair value requirements to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. We applied a prospective transition as we did not have financial instrument transactions that required a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings. These initial adoptions had no material impact on our Combined Financial Statements.
 
The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value, giving the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurement) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurement). We classify fair value balances based on the observability of those inputs. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:
 
 
In valuing certain contracts, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. For disclosure purposes, assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety in the fair value hierarchy level based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the overall fair value measurement. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the placement within the fair value hierarchy levels.
Table of Contents
 
 
The following table presents, by level within the fair value hierarchy, our assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
 
 
Marketable securities consist primarily of money market funds, U.S. equity funds, international equity funds and municipal bonds. Energy derivatives consist primarily of commodity-based contracts with WGM, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Williams, that resemble similar exchange-traded contracts and over-the-counter (OTC) contracts. Exchange-traded contracts include futures, swaps, and options. OTC contracts include forwards, swaps and options.
 
Many contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the market. Our policy is to use a mid-market pricing (the mid-point price between bid and ask prices) convention to value individual positions and then adjust on a portfolio level to a point within the bid and ask range that represents our best estimate of fair value. For offsetting positions by location, the mid-market price is used to measure both the long and short positions.
 
The determination of fair value for our assets and liabilities also incorporates the time value of money and various credit risk factors which can include the credit standing of the counterparties involved, master netting arrangements, the impact of credit enhancements (such as cash collateral posted and letters of credit), and our nonperformance risk on our liabilities. The determination of the fair value of our liabilities does not consider noncash collateral credit enhancements.
 
Exchange-traded contracts include New York Mercantile Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange contracts and are valued based on quoted prices in these active markets and are classified within Level 1.
 
Contracts for which fair value can be estimated from executed transactions or broker quotes corroborated by other market data are generally classified within Level 2. These broker quotes are based on observable market prices at which transactions could currently be executed. In certain instances where these inputs are not observable for all periods, relationships of observable market data and historical observations are used as a means to estimate fair value. Where observable inputs are available for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, the instrument is categorized in Level 2. The instruments included in Level 2 consist primarily of natural gas swaps, options and physical commitments.
 
Certain instruments trade in less active markets with lower availability of pricing information requiring valuation models using inputs that may not be readily observable or corroborated by other market data. These instruments are classified within Level 3 when these inputs have a significant impact on the measurement of fair value. The fair value of options is estimated using an industry standard Black-Scholes option pricing model. Certain inputs into the model are generally observable, such as commodity prices and interest rates, whereas other model inputs, such as implied volatility by location, is unobservable and requires judgment in estimating. The instruments included in Level 3 consist primarily of location based natural gas liquids swaps, options and physical commitments.
Table of Contents
 
 
The following tables present a reconciliation of changes in the fair value of net derivatives classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
 
 
 
Realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in for the above periods are reported in in our .
net income
revenues
Combined Statements of Income
 
During the nine months ended September 30, 2009 there were no assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
 
 
Financial Instruments
 
Fair-value methods
 
We use the following methods and assumptions in estimating our fair-value disclosures for financial instruments:
 
The carrying amounts reported in the approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
:  
Cash and cash equivalents
Combined Balance Sheets
 
  Pursuant to its 2008 rate case settlement, Transco deposits a portion of its collected rates into an external trust (ARO Trust) that is specifically designated to fund future asset retirement obligations. The ARO Trust invests in a portfolio of mutual funds that are classified as available-for-sale and are reported in in the . The fair value of these investments is based on indicative period-end traded market prices.
:
ARO Trust Investments
other assets and deferred charges
Combined Balance Sheets
 
  The carrying amounts reported in the approximate fair value as these instruments are due on demand and have interest rates approximating market.
:
Notes receivable from parent
Combined Balance Sheets
 
The carrying amounts reported in the approximate fair value as these instruments have interest rates approximating market.
:  
Notes and other noncurrent receivables
Combined Balance Sheets
 
The fair value of our publicly traded long-term debt is valued using indicative year-end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on market rates and the prices of similar securities
:  
Long-term debt
Table of Contents
 
 
with similar terms and credit ratings. At December 31, 2007 and 2008 and September 30, 2009, approximately 87%, 100% and 99%, respectively, of our long-term debt was publicly traded.
 
Energy derivatives include futures, forwards, swaps, and options. See Note 14 for discussion of valuation of our energy derivatives.
:  
Energy derivatives
 
Carrying amounts and fair values of our financial instruments
 
 
Energy Commodity Derivatives
 
Risk Management Activities
 
We are exposed to market risk from changes in energy commodity prices within our operations. We may utilize derivatives to manage our exposure to the variability in expected future cash flows from forecasted purchases of natural gas and forecasted sales of NGLs attributable to commodity price risk. Certain of these derivatives utilized for risk management purposes have been designated as cash flow hedges while others have not been designated as cash flow hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting despite hedging our future cash flows on an economic basis.
 
Midstream produces, buys and sells NGLs at different locations throughout the United States. Midstream also buys natural gas to satisfy the required fuel and shrink needed to generate NGLs. To reduce exposure to a decrease in revenues from fluctuations in NGL market prices or increases in costs and operating expenses from fluctuations in natural gas market prices, we may enter into NGL or natural gas swap agreements, financial forward contracts, and financial option contracts to mitigate the price risk on forecasted sales of NGLs and purchases of natural gas. Midstream's cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the term of the hedge. However, ineffectiveness may be recognized primarily as a result of locational differences between the hedging derivative and the hedged item.
 
Volumes
 
Our energy commodity derivatives are comprised of both contracts to purchase commodities (long positions) and contracts to sell commodities (short positions). Derivative transactions are categorized into three types:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The following table depicts the notional amounts of the net long (short) positions in our commodity derivatives portfolio as of September 30, 2009. Natural gas is presented in millions of British Thermal Units (MMBtu) and NGLs are presented in gallons.
 
 
Fair values and gains (losses)
 
The following table presents the fair value of energy commodity derivatives. Our derivatives are included in andin our . Derivatives are classified as current or noncurrent based on the contractual timing of expected future net cash flows of individual contracts. The expected future net cash flows for derivatives classified as current are expected to occur within the next twelve months. The fair value amounts are presented on a gross basis and do not reflect the netting of asset and liability positions permitted under the terms of our master netting arrangements.
other current assets, other assets and deferred charges,
accrued liabilities
Combined Balance Sheets
 
 
The following table presents pre-tax gains and losses for our energy commodity derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, as recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) or revenues.
 
 
There were no gains or losses recognized in income as a result of excluding amounts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness or as a result of reclassifications to earnings following the discontinuance of any cash flow hedges. As of September 30, 2009, we have hedged portions of future cash flows associated with anticipated NGL sales for up to three months. Based on recorded values at September 30, 2009, net losses to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months are immaterial. These recorded values are based on market prices of the commodities as of September 30, 2009. Due to the volatile nature of commodity prices and changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties, actual gains or losses realized in the next twelve months
Table of Contents
 
 
will likely differ from these values. These gains or losses will offset net losses or gains that will be realized in earnings from previous unfavorable or favorable market movements associated with underlying hedged transactions.
 
Gains on our energy commodity derivatives not designated as hedging instruments of $4 million were recognized in during the nine months ended September 30, 2009.
Midstream revenues
 
The cash flow impact of our derivative activities is presented in the as and .
Combined Statements of Cash Flows
changes in other current assets, changes in accrued liabilities
changes in noncurrent assets
 
Credit-risk-related features
 
Our financial swap contracts are with WGM, and the derivative contracts not designated as hedging instruments are physical commodity sale contracts. These agreements do not contain any provisions that require us to post collateral related to net liability positions.
 
Guarantees
 
In addition to the guarantees and payment obligations discussed elsewhere in these footnotes (see Note 8), we have issued guarantees and other similar arrangements as discussed below.
 
In connection with agreements executed to resolve take-or-pay and other contract claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transco entered into certain settlements with producers that may require the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties that the producers may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. Transco, through its agent, WGM, continues to purchase gas under contracts which extend, in some cases, through the life of the associated gas reserves. Certain of these contracts contain royalty indemnification provisions that have no carrying value. Producers have received certain demands and may receive other demands, which could result in claims pursuant to royalty indemnification provisions. Indemnification for royalties will depend on, among other things, the specific lease provisions between the producer and the lessor and the terms of the agreement between the producer and Transco. Consequently, the potential maximum future payments under such indemnification provisions cannot be determined. However, management believes that the probability of material payments is remote.
 
Concentration of Credit Risk
 
Cash equivalents
 
Our cash equivalents are primarily invested in funds with high-quality, short-term securities and instruments that are issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government.
Table of Contents
 
 
Accounts and notes receivable
 
The following table summarizes concentration of receivables, net of allowances, by product or service at December 31, 2007 and 2008:
 
 
Natural gas and NGL customers include pipelines, distribution companies, producers, gas marketers and industrial users primarily located in the eastern and northwestern United States, Rocky Mountains and the Gulf Coast. As a general policy, collateral is not required for receivables, but customers' financial condition and credit worthiness are evaluated regularly.
 
Derivative assets and liabilities
 
We have a risk of loss from counterparties not performing pursuant to the terms of their contractual obligations. Risk of loss is impacted by several factors, including credit considerations. We attempt to minimize credit-risk exposure to derivative counterparties through formal credit policies, consideration of credit ratings from public ratings agencies, monitoring procedures and collateral support under certain circumstances. Our NGL and natural gas financial contracts are with WGM and do not contain any provisions that require either party to post collateral related to net liability positions. Historically, WGM has not passed any counterparty risk back to us when they enter offsetting NGL and natural gas financial contracts with third parties. Our remaining derivatives are physical commodity sale contracts with non-investment grade companies.
 
Revenues
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, there were two customers in our Midstream Gas & Liquids segment for which our sales exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues. The largest customer represented 16% of our 2007 revenues and the other represented 12%. There were no customers for which our sales exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues in 2008.
 
 
Environmental Matters
 
Since 1989, Transco has had studies underway to test certain of its facilities for the presence of toxic and hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation may be necessary. Transco has responded to data requests from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites. Transco has identified polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in compressor systems, soils and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Transco has also been involved in negotiations with the EPA and state agencies to develop screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In addition, Transco commenced negotiations with certain environmental authorities and other parties concerning investigative and remedial actions relative to potential mercury contamination at certain gas metering sites. The costs of any such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation.
Table of Contents
 
 
At December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2009, we had accrued liabilities of $5 million and $4 million, respectively, related to PCB contamination, potential mercury contamination, and other toxic and hazardous substances. Transco has been identified as a potentially responsible party at various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. Based on present volumetric estimates and other factors, we have estimated our aggregate exposure for remediation of these sites to be less than $1 million, which is included in the environmental accrual discussed above. We expect that these costs will be recoverable through Transco's rates.
 
Beginning in the mid-1980s, Northwest Pipeline evaluated many of its facilities for the presence of toxic and hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation might be necessary. Consistent with other natural gas transmission companies, Northwest Pipeline identified PCB contamination in air compressor systems, soils and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Similarly, Northwest Pipeline identified hydrocarbon impacts at these facilities due to the former use of earthen pits and mercury contamination at certain gas metering sites. The PCBs were remediated pursuant to a Consent Decree with the EPA in the late 1980s and Northwest Pipeline conducted a voluntary of the hydrocarbon and mercury impacts in the early 1990s. In 2005, the Washington Department of Ecology required Northwest Pipeline to reevaluate its previous mercury in Washington. Consequently, Northwest Pipeline is conducting additional remediation activities at certain sites to comply with Washington's current environmental standards. At December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2009, we have accrued liabilities of $9 million and $8 million, respectively, for these costs. We expect that these costs will be recoverable through Northwest Pipeline's rates.
clean-up
clean-ups
 
In March 2008, the EPA issued a new air quality standard for ground level ozone. In September 2009, the EPA announced that it would reconsider those standards. The new standard would likely impact the operations of our interstate gas pipelines and cause us to incur additional capital expenditures to comply. At this time we are unable to estimate the cost of these additions that may be required to meet these regulations. We expect that costs associated with these compliance efforts will be recoverable through rates.
 
In September 2007, the EPA requested, and Transco later provided, information regarding natural gas compressor stations in the states of Mississippi and Alabama as part of the EPA's investigation of our compliance with the Clean Air Act. On March 28, 2008, the EPA issued NOVs alleging violations of Clean Air Act requirements at these compressor stations. Transco met with the EPA in May 2008 and submitted its response denying the allegations in June 2008. In July 2009, the EPA requested additional information pertaining to these compressor stations and in August 2009, Transco submitted the requested information.
 
Summary of environmental matters
 
Actual costs incurred for these matters could be substantially greater than amounts accrued depending on the actual number of contaminated sites identified, the actual amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental authorities and other factors, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
 
Other Legal Matters
 
Will Price (formerly Quinque)
 
In 2001, we were named, along with other subsidiaries of Williams, as defendants in a nationwide class action lawsuit in Kansas state court that had been pending against other defendants, generally pipeline and gathering companies, since 2000. The plaintiffs alleged that the defendants have engaged in mismeasurement techniques that distort the heating content of natural gas, resulting in an alleged underpayment of royalties to the class of producer plaintiffs and sought an unspecified amount of damages. The fourth amended petition, which was filed in 2003, deleted all of our defendant entities except two Midstream subsidiaries. All remaining defendants have opposed class certification, and on September 18, 2009, the court denied plaintiffs' most recent motion to certify the class. On October 2, 2009, the plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration of the
Table of Contents
 
 
denial. We are awaiting a decision from the court. The amount of any possible liability cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
 
Rate Matters
 
On March 1, 2001, Transco submitted to the FERC a general rate filing (Docket to recover increased costs. All cost of service, throughput and throughput mix, cost allocation and rate design issues in this rate proceeding have been resolved by settlement or litigation. The resulting rates were effective from September 1, 2001 to March 1, 2007. A tariff matter related to storage service in this proceeding has not yet been resolved.
No. RP01-245)
 
On August 31, 2006, Transco submitted to the FERC a general rate filing (Docket principally designed to recover costs associated with (a) an increase in operation and maintenance expenses and administrative and general expenses; (b) an increase in depreciation expense; (c) the inclusion of costs for asset retirement obligations; (d) an increase in rate base resulting from additional plant; and (e) an increase in rate of return and related taxes. The rates became effective March 1, 2007, subject to refund and the outcome of a hearing. On November 28, 2007, Transco filed with the FERC a Stipulation and Agreement (Agreement) resolving all but one issue in the rate case. On March 7, 2008, the FERC issued an order approving the Agreement without modifications. Pursuant to its terms, the Agreement became effective on June 1, 2008, and refunds of approximately $144 million were issued on July 17, 2008. Transco had previously provided a reserve for the refunds.
No. RP06-569)
 
The one issue reserved for litigation or further settlement relates to Transco's proposal to change the design of the rates for service under one of its storage rate schedules, which was implemented subject to refund on March 1, 2007. A hearing on that issue was held before a FERC Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) in July 2008. In November 2008, the ALJ issued an initial decision in which he determined that Transco's proposed incremental rate design is unjust and unreasonable. The ALJ's decision is subject to review by the FERC. If Transco is unsuccessful in its rehearing request, it would be required to refund approximately $6 million to customers.
 
Summary
 
Litigation, arbitration, regulatory matters, and environmental matters are subject to inherent uncertainties. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on the results of operations in the period in which the ruling occurs. Management, including internal counsel, currently believes that the ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery from customers or other indemnification arrangements, will not have a material adverse effect upon our future liquidity or financial position.
 
Commitments
 
Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and equipment are approximately $466 million at December 31, 2008. In addition, Transco has commitments for gas purchases of approximately $87 million at December 31, 2008, which are expected to be spent over the next ten years.
 
 
Our reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services. The segments are managed separately because each segment requires different technology, marketing strategies and industry knowledge. Pipeline Partners is consolidated within the Gas Pipeline segment. (See Note 1.)
Table of Contents
 
 
Performance Measurement
 
We currently evaluate performance based on from operations, which includes from external and internal customers, . The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1. Intersegment sales are generally accounted for at current market prices as if the sales were to unaffiliated third parties.
segment profit
segment revenues
segment costs and expenses, and equity earnings
 
The primary types of costs and operating expenses by segment can be generally summarized as follows:
 
 
The following table reflects the reconciliation of to and to as reported in the . It also presents other financial information related to long-lived assets.
segment revenues
revenues
segment profit
operating income
Combined Statements of Income
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table reflects and by reporting segment.
total assets
investments
 
 
 
In November 2009, we sold Midstream's Cameron Meadows gas processing plant for $57 million. We expect to recognize a gain on the sale of approximately $40 million in the fourth-quarter 2009.

 
 
These pro forma consolidated financial statements present the impact on our financial position and results of operations of our retirement of approximately $3.0 billion of debt and the contribution of certain of our wholly and partially owned subsidiaries (Contributed Entities) to our consolidated partnership Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ) in exchange for cash and WPZ common units. The Contributed Entities are currently reported within our Gas Pipeline and Midstream Gas & Liquids (Midstream) segments. The aggregate consideration received from WPZ will consist of the following:
 
 
Pro Forma Information
 
The pro forma consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2009 and for the year ended December 31, 2008 and nine months ended September 30, 2009 have been derived from our historical consolidated financial statements. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes and with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes.
 
The pro forma adjustments are based upon currently available information and certain estimates and assumptions; therefore, actual adjustments will differ from the pro forma adjustments. However, management believes that the assumptions provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects of the transactions as contemplated and that the pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to these assumptions and are properly applied in the pro forma financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, references in this report to "we", "our", "us" or like terms refer to The Williams Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The historical financial information is derived from our historical consolidated financial statements.
 
These pro forma consolidated financial statements present the impact on our financial position and results of operations of our retirement of approximately $3.0 billion of debt and the contribution of certain of our wholly and partially owned subsidiaries (Contributed Entities) to our consolidated partnership Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ) in exchange for cash and WPZ common units. The Contributed Entities are currently reported within our Gas Pipeline and Midstream Gas & Liquids (Midstream) segments. The aggregate consideration received from WPZ will consist of the following:
 
 
In conjunction with these transactions, we also expect to amend our $1.5 billion credit facility to reduce the capacity to a total of $900 million, while WPZ expects to establish a new $1.5 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility.
 
The pro forma adjustments have been prepared as if the transactions occurred on September 30, 2009 for the pro forma consolidated balance sheet and on January 1, 2008 for the pro forma consolidated statements of income. The businesses of the Contributed Entities are summarized as follows:
 
Gas Pipeline Businesses
 
We own and operate a combined total of approximately 14,000 miles of pipelines with a total annual throughput of approximately 2,700 trillion British Thermal Units of natural gas and delivery capacity of approximately 12 MMdt of gas. Our Gas Pipeline segment primarily consists of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC and Northwest Pipeline GP. Gas Pipeline also holds interests in joint venture interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline systems including a 50 percent interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. WPZ plans to acquire all of our Gas Pipeline businesses, except that they will only acquire a 24.5 percent interest in Gulfstream. Gas Pipeline also includes Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (WMZ) and WPZ plans to acquire all of our approximately 47.7 percent ownership interest in WMZ, including the interests of the general partner and incentive distribution rights.
peak-day
 
Midstream Gas & Liquids Businesses
 
The Contributed Entities from our Midstream segment have primary service areas concentrated in major producing basins in Colorado, Wyoming, the Gulf Coast and the Gulf of Mexico. In transactions occurring from 2005 through 2007, WPZ acquired significant midstream businesses from us, which we continue to consolidate by virtue of controlling our general partner interest. As part of this transaction, WPZ plans to acquire a significant portion of Midstream's remaining assets, including gathering, processing and treating assets in the West and Gulf Coast regions, NGL marketing services and certain other assets. Midstream's Canadian, Venezuelan and olefins operations are excluded from the transaction.
 
 
(a) Reflects payments related to our tender offer, WPZ's new credit facility, and the contribution transaction, including:
 
 
(b) Reflects $3.5 billion of proceeds from the issuance of WPZ's senior notes, net of estimated initial purchasers' discounts and estimated costs associated with the issuance of the senior notes, both of which will be allocated to the senior notes. These costs will be amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes.
 
(c) Reflects the net income tax receivable resulting from the tax benefit of the items described in note (i) below at an estimated 38 percent rate.
 
 
 -  estimated fees related to WPZ's new $1.5 billion credit facility,
 
 -  estimated initial purchasers' discounts and other direct issuance costs related to WPZ's new $3.5 billion debt issuance,
 
 -  consent payments related to bonds tendered but not purchased due to proration, partially offset by
 
 -  accelerated amortization of original debt issuance costs associated with the retired debt, and
 
 -  accelerated amortization of deferred costs associated with our existing amended credit facility.
 
(e) Reflects an adjustment of income tax payable prior to establishing the net income tax receivable described in note (c) above and the payment of accrued interest on retired debt.
 
(f) Reflects the retirement of approximately $3.0 billion of debt, net of original discount.
 
(g) Reflects the issuance of $3.5 billion of new debt by WPZ.
 
(h) Reflects an adjustment to noncontrolling interest for the change in ownership percentage of WPZ following the completion of their acquisition and the issuance of new common units and general partner units to us.
 
 
 -  cash premium paid to tendering bondholders,
 
 -  professional and advisory fees paid in conjunction with these transactions,
 
 -  accelerated amortization of original debt issuance costs associated with the retired debt,
 
 -  accelerated amortization of original net discount associated with the retired debt,
 
 -  fees paid to dealer managers for the tender offer,
 
 
 -  the estimated tax benefit from these items.
 
 
(j) Reflects the reversal of the net interest expense associated with the retired debt and our amended credit facility. The net amount is comprised of:
 
 -  interest expense on the retired debt,
 
 -  amortized debt issuance costs related to the retired debt,
 
 -  commitment fees and amortized costs related to our amended credit facility, partially offset by
 
 -  net premium amortization related to the retired debt.
 
(k) Reflects total interest expense for WPZ's new $3.5 billion debt issuance, WPZ's new credit facility, and our newly amended credit facility. The amount is comprised of:
 
 -  interest expense on WPZ's new debt,
 
 -  commitment fees and amortized costs related to WPZ's new credit facility,
 
 
 -  commitment fees and amortized costs related to our newly amended credit facility, and
 
 -  amortized debt issuance costs related to WPZ's new debt.
 
(l) Reflects the tax effect of the items described in notes (j) and (k) above and (m) below at an estimated 38 percent rate.
 
(m) This reduction in income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflects the allocation of income from the Contributed Entities net of interest expense on WPZ's new debt, more than offset by the effect of increasing our ownership in WPZ and its income as a result of the common units and general partner units received as consideration.
 
(n) Reflects the reversal of the net interest expense associated with the retired debt and our amended credit facility. The net amount is comprised of:
 
 -  interest expense on the retired debt,
 
 -  commitment fees and amortized costs related to our amended credit facility,
 
 -  amortized debt issuance costs related to the retired debt, partially offset by
 
 -  net premium amortization related to the retired debt.
 
(o) Reflects total interest expense for WPZ's new $3.5 billion debt issuance, WPZ's new credit facility, and our newly amended credit facility. The amount is comprised of:
 
 -  interest expense on WPZ's new debt,
 
 -  commitment fees and amortized costs related to WPZ's new credit facility,
 
 
 -  commitment fees and amortized costs related to our newly amended credit facility, and
 
 -  amortized debt issuance costs related to the new debt.
 
(p) Reflects the tax effect of the items described in notes (n) and (o) above and (q) below at an estimated 38 percent rate.
 
(q) This reduction in income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflects the allocation of income from the Contributed Entities net of interest expense on WPZ's new debt, more than offset by the effect of increasing our ownership in WPZ and its income as a result of the common units and general partner units received as consideration.

Exhibit 99.5
NYSE: WMB
Jan. 19, 2010
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced today that it will offer to purchase for cash up to $3 billion aggregate principal amount of its respective notes in the priority listed below:
 
     To be eligible to receive the Total Consideration, holders of notes must validly tender (and not validly withdraw) their notes at or prior to 5 p.m., New York City time, on Feb. 1, 2010, unless extended or earlier terminated. Holders must validly tender (and not validly withdraw) their notes at or prior to the expiration of the tender offer and consent solicitations to be eligible to receive the Tender Offer Consideration. Tenders of notes may be validly withdrawn and delivery of consents may be validly revoked at any time at or prior to 5 p.m., New York City time, on Feb. 1, 2010, unless extended, but not thereafter.
     The amount of each series of notes that is purchased in the tender offer will be determined in accordance with the Acceptance Priority Level noted in the table above. Williams will purchase any and all of the validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) notes listed above as Acceptance Priority Level 1. Williams will purchase validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) notes listed above as Acceptance Priority Level 2 subject to a cap equal to the $3 billion tender cap minus the aggregate principal amount of Acceptance Priority Level 1 notes accepted for purchase. In the event the tender offer is oversubscribed, Acceptance Priority Level 2 notes will be accepted on a pro rata basis.
 
     In conjunction with this tender offer, Williams is also soliciting consents to modify the related indentures and will pay a consent fee of $2.50 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to all holders that validly tender, including those that are not accepted in the tender offer. The consent fee is included in both the Tender Offer Consideration and Total Consideration.
     The tender offer and consent solicitations will each expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on Feb. 16, 2010, unless extended or earlier terminated.
     Williams is making this tender offer and consent solicitations as part of the strategic restructuring the company jointly announced with Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ) earlier today. Consummation of the tender offer for all series of notes and the consent solicitations is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including closing of the asset contribution transaction with Williams Partners, successful consummation of the Williams Partners private bond offering and establishment of its credit facility, and achieving the requisite consents in the consent solicitation. Please see the earlier news release for detailed information about the restructuring.
     The Dealer Managers and Solicitation Agents for the tender offer and consent solicitations are Barclays Capital Inc. and Citi. Global Bondholder Services Corporation is acting as the Information Agent and as the Depositary for the tender offer and the consent solicitations.
     This press release is neither an offer to purchase, nor a solicitation of an offer to sell, any securities. Williams is making the offer only by, and pursuant to, the terms and conditions of the offer to purchase that is being furnished to the holders of the notes. Holders are urged to read the tender offer documents carefully. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the Information Agent, Global Bondholder Services Corporation, which can be reached at (212) 430-3774 or toll-free at (866) 736-2200.
     Questions regarding the tender offer and consent solicitations may be directed to the Dealer Managers and Solicitation Agents. Barclays Capital Inc. can be reached at (212) 528-7581 or toll-free at (800) 438-3242. Citi can be reached toll-free at (800) 558-3745.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
 
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


