FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20101105112540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: 918/573-2000
Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: 918/573-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On November 3, 2010, the Board of Directors of The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") elected Rory L. Miller as Senior Vice President of Williams effective January 3, 2011. Also on November 3, 2010, the Board of Directors of Williams Partners GP LLC (the "General Partner"), the general partner of Williams Partners L.P. (the "Partnership"), elected Mr. Miller as Senior Vice President  Midstream and director of the General Partner, in each case effective January 3, 2011. Mr. Miller will assume positions currently held by Alan S. Armstrong, who was elected to replace Steven J. Malcolm as President and Chief Executive Officer of Williams and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the General Partner, in each case effective January 3, 2011.
     Mr. Miller, age 50, has served as Vice President of Williams' onshore gathering and processing business since January 2010. From 2004 to December 2009, he was Vice President of Williams' Gulf Coast gathering and processing business. In prior positions with Williams over the past 20 years, Mr. Miller served in other various roles supporting Williams' gathering and processing business.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On November 5, 2010, Williams and the Partnership issued a press regarding the election of Mr. Miller described above. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) 
Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: November 5, 2010
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: November 5, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Nov. 5, 2010
DATE:
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) and Williams Partners L. P. (NYSE: WPZ) today announced that Rory Miller has been elected senior vice president of Williams and senior vice president- Midstream and director of Williams Partners, effective Jan. 3, 2011. Miller, age 50, most recently served as vice president of the company's onshore gathering and processing business.
"Rory has experience across many facets of our midstream business  both offshore and onshore, "said Alan Armstrong, who was recently named successor to Steve Malcolm, Williams' chief executive officer and chairman and CEO of Williams Partners GP LLC. "He has been a key contributor to the midstream leadership team's strategy development and has strong customer relationships that are integral to our business. I know he will be an effective and energetic leader for our midstream business."
Miller's current responsibilities include oversight of the company's midstream operations in the San Juan, Piceance, Green River, Washakie and Appalachian basins. In prior positions with Williams over the past 20 years Miller has served in various onshore and offshore supply-area leadership roles. Before joining Williams, he held similar positions with Tennessee Gas Pipeline and Delhi Gas Pipeline.
Miller is a 1982 graduate of Utah State University where he earned a bachelor's degree in economics. He received his master's degree in organizational development from Case Western Reserve University's Weatherhead School of Management in 2008.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is an integrated natural gas company focused on exploration and production, midstream gathering and processing, and interstate natural gas transportation primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Eastern Seaboard and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Most of the company's interstate gas
 
pipeline and midstream assets are held through its 77-percent ownership interest (including the general-partner interest) in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), a leading diversified master limited partnership. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


