FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20100916074540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
     On September 16, 2010, The Williams Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing updates to its earnings and capital expenditure guidance for 2010-2012, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. Steven J. Malcolm, the Company's chairman of the board of directors, president, and chief executive officer, will discuss the updated guidance in his presentation on September 16, 2010 at the 2010 Barclays Capital CEO Energy-Power Conference. The presentation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
     The information in this report (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2) is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Sept. 16, 2010
DATE:
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) today announced updates to its earnings and capital expenditure guidance for 2010-12.
Steve Malcolm, Williams' chairman, president and chief executive officer, will discuss the updated guidance in his presentation today at the Barclays Capital CEO Energy-Power Conference. His presentation is available for download at .
www.williams.com/investors
"We are adjusting our outlook and earnings guidance to reflect the current state of the economy and commodity markets," Malcolm said. "Despite the lower expected natural gas and NGL margins, we are still projecting steady earnings growth in 2010-12.
"We have demonstrated over the years that we are capable of seizing growth opportunities in a variety of commodity environments," Malcolm said. "There are opportunities for growth across all of our businesses, and we will continue to pursue them with the same discipline that we always have."
The new earnings guidance for 2010-12 reflects lower expected natural gas prices and lower expected natural gas liquid (NGL) margins. Additionally, the company is lowering its capital expenditure guidance for 2011-12, which will result in a slower rate of natural gas production growth during that time frame.
The company's updated assumptions for certain energy commodity prices for 2010-12 and the corresponding guidance for the company's earnings and capital expenditures are displayed in the following table.
 
Commodity Price Assumptions and Financial Outlook
As of Sept. 16, 2010
 
Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes certain financial measures, adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted segment profit that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted segment profit exclude items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations. Both measures provide investors meaningful insight into the company's results from ongoing operations. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to
 
compare a company's performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the company. Neither adjusted diluted earnings per share nor adjusted segment profit are intended to represent an alternative to diluted earnings per share or segment profit. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Certain financial information in this press release is also shown including mark-to-market adjustments for certain hedges and other derivatives in Exploration & Production, such as adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted segment profit. This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses the mark-to-market adjustments to better reflect results on a basis that is more consistent with derivative portfolio cash flows and to aid investor understanding. The adjustments reverse forward unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses from derivatives and add realized gains or losses from derivatives for which mark-to-market income has been previously recognized, with the effect that the resulting adjusted segment profit is presented as if mark-to-market accounting had never been applied to these derivatives. The measure is limited by the fact that it does not reflect potential unrealized future losses or gains on derivative contracts. However, management compensates for this limitation since derivative assets and liabilities do reflect unrealized gains and losses of derivative contracts. Overall, management believes the mark-to-market adjustments provide an alternative measure that more closely matches realized cash flows for these derivatives but does not substitute for actual cash flows.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is an integrated natural gas company focused on exploration and production, midstream gathering and processing, and interstate natural gas transportation primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Eastern Seaboard and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Most of the company's interstate gas pipeline and midstream assets are held through its 80-percent ownership interest (including the general-partner interest) in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), a leading diversified master limited partnership. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. to Adjusted Earnings
 
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliation Segment Profit Guidance  Reported to Adjusted
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliation
Forecast Reported Income from Continuing Operations Adjustments to Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


