FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20110907060130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 6, 2011, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") issued a press release announcing its intention to increase its annual dividend on its common stock by 25 percent, to $1.00 per share. Williams indicated that the increase is effective with Williams' quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share to be paid in December 2011. Williams outlined a new dividend policy that supports continued 10 to 15 percent annual dividend growth.
In such press release, Williams also provided 2011-13 earnings and capital expenditure guidance that reflects the planned separation of its exploration and production business.
The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report (including Exhibit 99.1) is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
     (d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Sept. 6, 2011
DATE:
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced today it plans to increase the annual dividend on its common stock by 25 percent, to $1.00 per share. The company also outlined a new dividend policy that supports continued 10 to 15 percent annual dividend growth.
The dividend increase announced today is effective with Williams' quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share to be paid in December 2011. The new, $0.25 quarterly dividend is double what the company paid in December 2010. Most recently, the company had paid a quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share.
Williams' new dividend policy supports continued high payouts. The company plans to pay out substantially all of the distributions it receives from Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE:WPZ). Longer term, the company expects its Midstream Canada & Olefins segment to contribute significantly to dividend growth. In the near term, Williams plans to reinvest Midstream Canada & Olefins cash flows in attractive growth projects.
Williams also is providing 2011-13 segment profit and capital expenditure guidance that reflects the separation of the company's exploration and production business. See the full chart below.
 
"The significant dividend increase and our new dividend policy underscore our active transformation of Williams into a high-dividend, high-growth energy infrastructure company," said Alan Armstrong, president and chief executive officer.
"We remain committed to separating our exploration and production business. We are poised, when market conditions are suitable, to move forward with an IPO. We plan to fully separate the business with a tax-free spinoff to our shareholders not later than first-quarter 2012.
"Our large-scale midstream and gas pipeline assets are ideally situated in established and growing supply areas and also in close proximity to key markets," Armstrong said. "Through 2013, we expect to invest more than $5 billion in growth projects. Across all parts of our businesses, we have good visibility to significant, additional growth investments that are not yet included in our guidance."
Williams and Williams Partners are committed to maintaining investment-grade credit.
Armstrong will discuss the dividend increase, the company's strategy and 2011-13 guidance in detail during his presentation tomorrow at the 2011 Barclays Capital CEO Energy-Power Conference. A link to the live webcast of his presentation, which is scheduled for approximately 11 a.m. EDT, is available . The presentation will also be posted to the company's website tomorrow morning.
www.williams.com
Williams' assumptions for certain energy commodity prices for 2011-13 and the corresponding guidance for the company's earnings and capital expenditures are displayed in the following table. These reflect the planned separation of the company's exploration and production business.
 
Commodity Price Assumptions and Financial Outlook (Assumes Separation of E&P for All Periods Presented)
 
 
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is an integrated natural gas company focused on exploration and production, midstream gathering and processing, and interstate natural gas transportation primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Eastern Seaboard and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Most of the company's interstate gas pipeline and midstream assets are held through its 75-percent ownership interest (including the general-partner interest) in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), a leading diversified master limited partnership. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these forward looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this announcement. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this announcement. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on Feb. 24, 2011, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at .
www.williams.com
 
Segment profit guidance  reported to adjusted


