FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20110919172457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 19, 2011, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") issued a press release which provided updated and new guidance for certain earnings and cash flow metrics for Williams and Williams Partners L.P. (the "Partnership").
With respect to Williams, the press release provided, for the first time, 2012-13 guidance for adjusted earnings per share assuming Exploration & Production ("E&P") separation and related exclusion of E&P results from Williams' results from continuing operations. The press release also provided updated 2011 guidance for cash flow from continuing operations, including E&P. In addition, the press release introduced 2012-2013 cash flow from continuing operations guidance assuming separation of E&P.
With respect to the Partnership, the press release introduced guidance for 2013 distributable cash flow attributable to partnership operations and cash distribution coverage ratio and updated 2012 guidance for those metrics from guidance provided on August 3, 2011.
The press release and its accompanying reconciliation schedules are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
The information in this report (including Exhibit 99.1) is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) None
     (b) None
     (c) None
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Sept. 19, 2011
DATE:
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) will host its annual Analyst Day tomorrow that will feature an in-depth presentation on the company's transformation into a high-dividend, high-growth energy infrastructure company.
In addition to the strategic and financial overview, Analyst Day will feature in-depth presentations on the Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ) midstream and gas pipeline businesses, as well as Williams' midstream Canada and olefins business.
Presenters will include Alan Armstrong, president and chief executive officer; Don Chappel, chief financial officer; Randy Barnard, president of the gas pipeline business; Rory Miller, president of the midstream business; and other key members of Williams' management team. Williams will not be presenting any information on the company's exploration and production business.
Williams' Analyst Day will be broadcast live via webcast beginning tomorrow at 8:45 a.m. EDT. Participants are encouraged to access the webcast at or . Slides will be available tomorrow morning on both web sites for viewing, downloading and printing. A replay of
www.williams.com
www.williamslp.com
 
the Analyst Day webcast will be available for two weeks following the event at the web sites listed above.
New Adjusted EPS, Cash Flow Guidance for 2011-13
For the first time, Williams is providing 2012-13 guidance for adjusted earnings per share assuming Exploration & Production separation and related exclusion of E&P results from Williams' results from continuing operations. Previous adjusted earnings per share guidance for 2011 issued on Aug. 3, which includes E&P, is unchanged.
Previous 2011 guidance for cash flow from continuing operations, including E&P, is being updated. Cash flow from continuing operations guidance, assuming separation of E&P, is being introduced for 2012-13.
Williams Partners' guidance for 2013 distributable cash flow (DCF) attributable to partnership operations and cash distribution coverage ratio also are being introduced. The previous 2012 guidance for those metrics is updated from guidance provided on Aug. 3, while the previous 2011 guidance is unchanged.
All other Williams and Williams Partners guidance figures provided on Sept. 6 are unchanged. The following chart provides updated and new guidance for certain earnings and cash flow metrics for Williams and Williams Partners.
Select Earnings and Cash Flow Guidance for Williams and Williams Partners L.P. (Includes E&P)
Select Earnings and Cash Flow Guidance for Williams and Williams Partners L.P. (Assumes 1/1/12 Separation of E&P)
 
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is an integrated natural gas company focused on exploration and production, midstream gathering and processing, and interstate natural gas transportation primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Eastern Seaboard and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Most of the company's interstate gas pipeline and midstream assets are held through its 75-percent ownership interest (including the general-partner interest) in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), a leading
 
diversified master limited partnership. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
About Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ)
Williams Partners L.P. is a leading diversified master limited partnership focused on natural gas transportation; gathering, treating, and processing; storage; natural gas liquid (NGL) fractionation; and oil transportation. The partnership owns interests in three major interstate natural gas pipelines that, combined, deliver 14 percent of the natural gas consumed in the United States. The partnership's gathering and processing assets include large-scale operations in the U.S. Rocky Mountains and both onshore and offshore along the Gulf of Mexico. Williams (NYSE: WMB) owns approximately 75 percent of Williams Partners, including the general-partner interest. More information is available at . Go to or to join our email list.
www.williamslp.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=1296&to=ea&s=0
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these forward looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this announcement. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
 
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this announcement. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on Feb. 24, 2011, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at
www.williams.com
.
Williams Partners L.P. is a limited partnership formed by The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams). Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will," or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this announcement. Many of the factors that
 
will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this announcement. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2011, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at
www.williamslp.com
.
 
WMB Non-GAAP Disclaimer
This press release includes certain financial measures, adjusted segment profit, adjusted earnings and adjusted per share measures that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted segment profit, adjusted earnings and adjusted per share measures exclude items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations and reflects mark-to-market adjustments for certain hedges and other derivatives in Exploration & Production. These measures provide investors meaningful insight into the company's results from ongoing operations and better reflect results on a basis that is more consistent with derivative portfolio cash flows. The mark-to-market adjustments reverse forward unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses from derivatives and add realized gains or losses from derivatives for which mark-to-market income has been previously recognized, with the effect that the resulting adjusted segment profit is presented as if mark-to-market accounting had never been applied to these derivatives. The measure is limited by the fact that it does not reflect potential unrealized future losses or gains on derivative contracts. However, management compensates for this limitation since derivative assets and liabilities do reflect unrealized gains and losses of derivative contracts. Overall, management believes the mark-to-market adjustments provide an alternative measure that more closely matches realized cash flows for these derivatives but does not substitute for actual cash flows.
This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare a company's performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the company and aid investor understanding. Neither adjusted segment profit, adjusted earnings nor adjusted per share measures are intended to represent an alternative to segment profit, net income or earnings per share. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
WPZ Non-GAAP Disclaimer
This press release includes certain financial measures  Distributable Cash Flow, Cash Distribution Coverage Ratio, and Adjusted Segment Profit  that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For Williams Partners L.P., Adjusted Segment Profit excludes items of income or loss that we characterize as unrepresentative of our ongoing operations. Management believes Adjusted Segment Profit provides investors meaningful insight into Williams Partners L.P.'s results from ongoing operations.
For Williams Partners L.P. we define Distributable Cash Flow as net income plus depreciation and amortization and cash distributions from our equity investments less our earnings from our equity investments, distributions to noncontrolling interests and maintenance capital expenditures. We also adjust for payments and/or reimbursements under omnibus agreements with Williams and certain other items. Total Distributable Cash Flow is reduced by any amounts associated with operations, which occurred prior to our ownership of the underlying assets to arrive at Distributable Cash Flow attributable to partnership operations.
For Williams Partners L.P. we also calculate the ratio of Distributable Cash Flow attributable to partnership operations to the total cash distributed (Cash Distribution Coverage Ratio). This measure reflects the amount of Distributable Cash Flow relative to our cash distribution. We have also provided this ratio calculated using the most directly comparable GAAP measure, net income.
This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare company performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the Partnership's assets and the cash that the business is generating. Neither Adjusted Segment Profit nor Distributable Cash Flow are intended to represent cash flows for the period, nor are they presented as an alternative to net income or cash flow from operations. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
2011 forecast guidance  reported to adjusted
 
 
Reconciliation of forecasted reported income from continuing operations
to adjusted income from continuing operations after MTM adjustments
 
 
2011 Non-GAAP adjustment detail
 
 
Net income & distributable cash flow
 


