FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20111121213533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On November 21, 2011, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") issued a press release announcing the early tender results and consideration to be paid in its previously announced cash tender offers for certain series of Williams' outstanding notes and debentures for an aggregate purchase price of up to $1 billion. As of the previously announced early tender deadline of 5 p.m., New York City time, on Nov. 21, 2011, approximately $2 billion aggregate principal amount of Notes had been validly tendered and not validly withdrawn. The tender offers are scheduled to expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on December 6, 2011, unless extended.
The press release announcing the early tender results and consideration offered in the tender offers is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
This report is neither an offer to purchase, nor a solicitation of an offer to sell, any securities. Williams is making the offers only by, and pursuant to, the terms and conditions of the Offer to Purchase dated November 7, 2011 and the related Letter of Transmittal.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATED: November 21, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Nov. 21, 2011
DATE:
 
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) today announced the early tender results and consideration to be paid in its previously announced cash tender offers for the series of notes and debentures listed below (the "Notes") for an aggregate purchase price of up to $1 billion ("the Tender Cap"). As of the previously announced early tender deadline of 5 p.m., New York City time, on Nov. 21, 2011, approximately $2 billion aggregate principal amount of Notes had been validly tendered and not validly withdrawn.
 
The reference yields were determined by Barclays Capital and Citigroup, the dealer managers for the tender offers, based on the bid-side price for the applicable U.S. treasury reference security at 2:00 p.m., New York City time, today, as described in the Offer to Purchase dated Nov. 7, 2011.
Holders who tendered Notes at or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Nov. 21, 2011, will be eligible to receive the Total Consideration (as set forth above), and holders who tender Notes after such time and at or prior to the expiration of the tender offers (12:00 midnight, New York City time, on Dec. 6, 2011, unless extended) will be eligible to receive the Tender Offer Consideration (as set forth above). In addition, holders of Notes accepted for purchase will be paid accrued interest to but excluding the settlement date, which is expected to be Dec. 7, 2011. Withdrawal rights for the tender offers expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Nov. 21, 2011.
The amount of each series of Notes that may be accepted for purchase will be determined in accordance with the Acceptance Priority Levels set forth above and may be prorated as described in the Offer to Purchase. All Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn of the series with Acceptance Priority Level 1 will be accepted before any Notes of the series with Acceptance Priority Level 2 and so forth through succeeding levels. If the aggregate purchase price that would be payable for all Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn of any series or group of series with the same Acceptance Priority Level exceeds the remaining amount available under the Tender Cap, such Notes will be accepted for purchase on a pro rata basis. In that event, Notes with an Acceptance Priority Level following the prorated series or group of series will not be accepted for purchase.
The consummation of the tender offers is conditioned upon the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase.
Williams has retained Barclays Capital and Citigroup as dealer managers and Global Bondholder Services Corporation as the depositary and information agent for the tender offers.
For additional information regarding the terms of the tender offers, please contact: Barclays Capital at (800) 438-3242 (toll free) or (212) 528-7581 (collect) or Citigroup at (800) 558-3745 (toll free) or (212) 723-6106 (collect). Requests for documents and questions regarding the tendering of Notes may be directed to Global Bondholder Services Corporation at (866) 736-2200 (toll free) or (212) 430-3774.
This press release is neither an offer to purchase, nor a solicitation of an offer to sell, any securities. Williams is making the tender offers only by, and pursuant to, the terms and conditions of the Offer to Purchase and related Letter of Transmittal that have been furnished to holders of Notes. Holders are urged to read the tender offer documents carefully. Subject to applicable law, Williams may amend, extend or, subject to certain conditions, terminate the tender offers.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is an integrated natural gas company focused on exploration and production, midstream gathering and processing, and interstate natural gas transportation primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Eastern Seaboard and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Most of the company's interstate gas pipeline and midstream assets are held through its 75-percent ownership interest (including the general-partner interest) in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), a leading diversified master limited partnership. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


