FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20110217074627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 17, 2011, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release and its accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are furnished as a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The press release and accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 7.01. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
     On February 17, 2011, Williams issued a press release announcing its domestic and international proved natural gas and oil reserves as of December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release announcing the same is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Feb. 17, 2011
DATE:
Williams Reports Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2010 Financial Results
 
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced an unaudited net loss attributable to Williams, for 2010 of $1,097 million, or a loss of $1.88 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $285 million, or $0.49 per share on a diluted basis for 2009.
 
The net loss for 2010 was primarily the result of significant non-cash impairment charges at the company's Exploration & Production segment during the third quarter due to a decline in forward natural gas prices. These included pre-tax charges of approximately $1 billion for an impairment of goodwill and $678 million related to certain proved and unproved natural gas properties, primarily in the Barnett Shale. First-quarter pre-tax costs of approximately $648 million in conjunction with the strategic restructuring that transformed Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ) into a leading diversified master limited partnership also contributed to the net loss for 2010.
For fourth-quarter 2010, Williams reported net income of $174 million, or $0.29 per share, compared with net income of $172 million, or $0.29 per share for the same period in 2009.
The slight improvement in the fourth-quarter results was driven by higher natural gas liquid (NGL) and olefin profits, partially offset by a lower net realized price on natural gas production.
All prior-period comparisons in this news release are based on recast 2009 results. The recast results reflect the company's updated segment financial reporting following the first-quarter and fourth-quarter 2010 asset drop-down transactions with Williams Partners.
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations
Adjusted income from continuing operations was $760 million, or $1.28 per share, for 2010, compared with $552 million, or $0.94 per share for 2009.
For fourth-quarter 2010, adjusted income from continuing operations was $259 million, or $0.44 per share; compared with $161 million, or $0.27 per share, for the fourth-quarter 2009.
The improvements in the full-year and fourth-quarter results were driven by increases in the Williams Partners and Other segments, partially offset by lower results in the Exploration & Production segment. These results are detailed later in this press release.
The fourth-quarter adjusted results also benefited from $65 million of favorable revisions to the company's estimate of deferred state income taxes.
Adjusted income from continuing operations reflects the removal of items considered unrepresentative of ongoing operations and the effect of mark-to-market accounting and is a non-GAAP measure. Reconciliations to the most relevant GAAP measure are attached to this news release.
 
CEO Comment
"The portfolio of our businesses performed very well in the fourth quarter and drove a solid finish for 2010," said Alan Armstrong, Williams' chief executive officer. "In addition, our financial restructuring in 2010 allowed us to invest more than $4 billion dollars that will drive our expected earnings growth as demonstrated by our 2011-12 guidance.
"The continued demand for large-scale infrastructure to serve the growing resource plays will continue to provide new investment opportunities throughout 2011 and beyond," Armstrong said.
Guidance Update
Williams' assumptions for certain energy commodity prices for 2011-12 and the corresponding guidance for the company's earnings and capital expenditures are displayed in the following table.
Guidance has been updated to reflect higher NGL and oil prices and lower natural gas prices, as well as the previously announced Bakken Shale acquisition.
Please note that 2011-12 earnings and capital expenditure guidance does not reflect the company's previously announced plans to separate into two stand-alone, publicly traded companies. However, this guidance does reflect the company's plan to increase its quarterly dividend to shareholders by 60 percent to $0.20 per Williams share for the first-quarter 2011 dividend, paid in June. An additional 10 to 15 percent increase is targeted with the June 2012 dividend payment.
 
Commodity Price Assumptions and Financial Outlook
 
Business Segment Results
Williams' business segments for financial reporting are Williams Partners, Exploration & Production, and Other. The Williams Partners segment includes the consolidated results of Williams Partners L.P.; Exploration & Production includes the domestic E&P business, gas marketing, and the company's controlling interest in Apco Oil & Gas International, Inc.; and the Other segment includes the company's Canadian midstream and domestic olefins businesses and a 25.5-percent interest in the Gulfstream interstate natural gas pipeline system.
 
 
Williams Partners
Williams Partners is focused on natural gas transportation, gathering, treating, processing and storage; NGL fractionation; and oil transportation.
For 2010, Williams Partners reported segment profit of $1,574 million, compared with $1,317 million for 2009.
The 20 percent increase in Williams Partners' segment profit for the year is primarily due to higher per-unit NGL margins. Slightly higher NGL equity volumes, due to a full year of production at Willow Creek and new fourth-quarter production capacity at Echo Springs, also contributed to the improved results for the year.
There is a more detailed description of Williams Partners' interstate gas pipeline and midstream business results in the partnership's year-end 2010 financial results news release, which is also being issued today.
Exploration & Production
Exploration & Production primarily develops natural gas reserves in the Piceance, Powder River and San Juan basins, the Marcellus and Barnett shales; oil reserves in the Bakken Shale; and internationally in Argentina and Colombia.
The business reported a segment loss of $1,343 million for 2010, compared with segment profit of $391 million for 2009.
 
The segment loss for 2010 resulted from the previously noted third-quarter non-cash impairment charges of approximately $1.7 billion for impairments of goodwill and certain proved and unproved properties, primarily in the Barnett Shale.
Exploration & Production's adjusted segment profit for 2010 was $321 million, compared with $483 million in 2009 on the same adjusted basis.
The decline in segment profit on an adjusted basis is due primarily to lower natural gas production levels, higher gathering, processing and transportation expenses, in addition to higher operating taxes and lease operating expenses. These items were partially offset by higher net realized average prices for natural gas.
Sharply reduced drilling activity in 2009 because of the global recession caused full-year 2010 production to be 4 percent lower. However, increased drilling activity in 2010 began driving quarter-over-quarter production growth in the second quarter.
Total U.S. production increased 4 percent from third-quarter to fourth-quarter 2010. Additionally, Williams expects average annual daily production to increase by 9 percent and 10 percent at guidance midpoints in 2011 and 2012, respectively.
The chart below details Williams' average daily natural gas production for 2010.
During 2010, Williams' net realized average price for U.S. production, inclusive of hedging gains, was $5.23 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (Mcfe), which was 8 percent higher than the $4.85 per Mcfe realized in 2009.
During fourth-quarter 2010, Williams completed the acquisition of approximately 85,800 net acres for $925 million (not including closing adjustments predominantly due to additional drilling) in the Bakken Shale in North Dakota.
 
Williams' entry into the Bakken Shale play follows its entry into Pennsylvania's Marcellus Shale, where the company has accumulated approximately 100,000 net acres over the past year and a half.
In a separate announcement today, Williams announced that its total proved natural gas and oil reserves as of Dec. 31, 2010, were approximately 4.5 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe)  including international reserves of approximately 0.2 Tcfe. Proved, probable, and possible (3P) reserves increased by 7 percent to 15.9 Tcfe from 14.8 Tcfe in 2009. See the separate news release from today for a more detailed discussion of year-end reserves.
Other
Other reported 2010 segment profit of $240 million, compared with a segment loss of $2 million for 2009.
The significant improvement in the Other results for 2010 is due primarily to the favorable impact of higher NGL and olefin production profits from much higher average per-unit margins and the net impact of recognizing $43 million in gains on the Accroven investment in 2010 while recording a $75 million impairment charge on that investment in 2009.
Today's Analyst Call
Management will discuss the year-end and fourth-quarter 2010 results and 2011-12 outlook during a live webcast beginning at 9:30 a.m. EST today. Participants are encouraged to access the webcast and slides for viewing, downloading and printing at .
www.williams.com
A limited number of phone lines also will be available at (888) 298-3451. International callers should dial (719) 325-2313. Replays of the year-end webcast in both streaming and downloadable podcast formats will be available for two weeks following the event at .
www.williams.com
Form 10-K
The company plans to file its 2010 Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission next week. Once filed, the document will be available on both the SEC and Williams websites.
Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes certain financial measures, adjusted segment profit, adjusted earnings and adjusted per share measures that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted segment profit, adjusted earnings and adjusted per share measures exclude
 
items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations and reflects mark-to-market adjustments for certain hedges and other derivatives in Exploration & Production. These measures provide investors meaningful insight into the company's results from ongoing operations and better reflect results on a basis that is more consistent with derivative portfolio cash flows. The mark-to-market adjustments reverse forward unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses from derivatives and add realized gains or losses from derivatives for which mark-to-market income has been previously recognized, with the effect that the resulting adjusted segment profit is presented as if mark-to-market accounting had never been applied to these derivatives. The measure is limited by the fact that it does not reflect potential unrealized future losses or gains on derivative contracts. However, management compensates for this limitation since derivative assets and liabilities do reflect unrealized gains and losses of derivative contracts. Overall, management believes the mark-to-market adjustments provide an alternative measure that more closely matches realized cash flows for these derivatives but does not substitute for actual cash flows.
This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare a company's performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the company and aid investor understanding. Neither adjusted segment profit, adjusted earnings nor adjusted per share measures are intended to represent an alternative to segment profit, net income or earnings per share. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is an integrated natural gas company focused on exploration and production, midstream gathering and processing, and interstate natural gas transportation primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Eastern Seaboard and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Most of the company's interstate gas pipeline and midstream assets are held through its 75-percent ownership interest (including the general-partner interest) in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), a leading diversified master limited partnership. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking
 
statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these forward looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this announcement. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this announcement. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on Feb. 26, 2010, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at .
www.williams.com
The SEC requires oil and gas companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose proved reserves, which are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible  from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and governmental regulations. The SEC permits the optional disclosure of probable and possible reserves. We have elected to use in this presentation, but not in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, "probable" reserves and "possible" reserves, excluding their valuation. The SEC defines "probable" reserves as "those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered." The SEC defines "possible" reserves as "those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than probable reserves." Williams has applied these definitions in estimating probable and possible reserves. Statements of reserves are only estimates and may not correspond to the ultimate quantities of oil and gas recovered. Any reserve estimates provided in this presentation that are not specifically designated as being estimates of proved reserves may include estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with, or contemplated by, the SECs reserves reporting guidelines. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in
 
Williams' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, available from Williams at One Williams Center, Tulsa, OK 74172 (Attn: Investor Relations). You can also obtain this report from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at .
www.sec.gov
The SEC's rules prohibit us from filing resource estimates. Our resource estimations include estimates of hydrocarbon quantities for (i) new areas for which we do not have sufficient information to date to classify as proved, probable or even possible reserves, (ii) other areas to take into account the low level of certainty of recovery of the resources and (iii) uneconomic proved, probable or possible reserves. Resource estimates do not take into account the certainty of resource recovery and are therefore not indicative of the expected future recovery and should not be relied upon. Resource estimates might never be recovered and are contingent on exploration success, technical improvements in drilling access, commerciality and other factors.
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Reconciliation of Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. to Adjusted Income
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Operations
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
Reconciliation of Segment Profit (Loss) to Adjusted Segment Profit (Loss)
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Williams Partners
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Exploration & Production
 
 
 
(UNAUDITED)
Other
 
(UNAUDITED)
Capital Expenditures and Investments
 
 
Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization and Other Selected Financial Data
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
Segment profit guidance  reported to adjusted
The sum of the ranges for the business units may not match the consolidated total due to rounding and other adjustments.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Feb. 17, 2011
DATE:
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced today that its total proved natural gas and oil reserves as of Dec. 31, 2010, were approximately 4.5 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe)  including international reserves of approximately 0.2 Tcfe.
Approximately 94 percent of total proved reserves are natural gas, with approximately 59 percent proved developed and 41 percent proved undeveloped, reflecting a continuation of the increase in the ratio of proved developed to undeveloped.
Under Securities and Exchange Commission reporting rules, material undeveloped oil and gas reserves should not remain undeveloped for five years or more after disclosure without an explanation of the specific circumstances warranting their disclosure. Williams anticipates that all of its disclosed proved reserves can be developed within the next five years per SEC definitions for proved reserves.
Williams has reclassified a net 253 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe) from proved to probable reserves attributable to locations not expected to be developed within five years. This amount is predominately in the Piceance Basin where the company has a large inventory of drilling locations. In total, Williams estimates it has 353 Bcfe of undeveloped reserves that could be classified as proved with an additional two years of development beyond the five-year limit.
 
Adding these reserves to Williams' year-end SEC U.S. proved reserves makes a total of 4.6 Tcfe for a reserves replacement ratio of 188 percent vs. 104 percent on an unadjusted basis. The following table sets out the company's total year-end 2010 SEC U.S. proved reserves and an alternate scenario considering seven years of development activity instead of five.
2010 Year-End U.S. Proved Reserves
Amounts in billions cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe) of natural gas
In 2010, Williams invested almost $2.7 billion of capital in its U.S. exploration and production business. That figure includes $988 million for development drilling and $1.7 billion in growth acquisitions.
"Our new positions in the Bakken and Marcellus turned 2010 into a transformational year," said Ralph Hill, president of Williams' E&P business. "We diversified both geographically and in terms of our product slate.
"We have significant scale in these areas now, similar to the framework we established in the Piceance and Powder River basins," Hill said.
In 2010, Williams participated in 1,162 gross wells in the United States, achieving a drilling success rate of 99 percent.
Williams added 528 Bcfe through 2010 U.S. drilling activity for an adjusted proved developed domestic reserves replacement cost of $1.87 per Mcfe.
Year-end 2010 proved, probable, and possible (3P) reserves increased by 7 percent to 15.9 Tcfe from 14.8 Tcfe at year-end 2009. In accordance with SEC reserves reporting rules, proved reserves were calculated using the average of the first day of the month prices for the twelve months in 2010 held constant. Probable and possible reserves were calculated using forward-market prices.
 
The three-year average proved developed finding and development cost from drilling activity was $2.44 per Mcfe, which is calculated by dividing the three-year total development capital by the three-year net change in proved developed reserves plus production.
International proved reserves for year-end 2010 increased to approximately 35.3 million barrels of oil equivalent, or approximately 0.2 Tcfe, which reflects an increase of 7 percent from the prior year of approximately 32.9 million barrels of oil equivalent for a reserves replacement ratio of 165 percent.
Approximately 94 percent of Williams' year-end 2010 U.S. proved reserves estimates were audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (93%), or Miller and Lentz (1%).
Their judgment determined that Williams' estimates are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE standards).
Approximately 94 percent of proved reserves estimates for international properties were reviewed and certified by Ralph E. Davis and Associates, with the remaining approximately 6 percent reviewed and certified by RPS Energy.
Proved reserves ae estimated quantities that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations.
r
Williams' exploration and production business primarily develops natural gas reserves in the Piceance, Powder River and San Juan basins in the Rocky Mountains, the Marcellus (Pennsylvania) and Barnett (Texas) shales, and oil reserves in the Bakken Shale/Three Forks formations in North Dakota, and internationally in Argentina and Colombia.
 
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is an integrated natural gas company focused on exploration and production, midstream gathering and processing, and interstate natural gas transportation primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Eastern Seaboard and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Most of the company's interstate gas pipeline and midstream assets are held through its 75-percent ownership interest (including the general-partner interest) in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), a leading diversified master limited partnership. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these forward looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You typically can identify forward-looking statements by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this announcement. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
 
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this announcement. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on Feb. 26, 2010, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at .
www.williams.com
The SEC requires oil and gas companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose proved reserves, which are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible  from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and governmental regulations. The SEC permits the optional disclosure of probable and possible reserves. We have elected to use in this presentation, but not in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, "probable" reserves and "possible" reserves, excluding their valuation. The SEC defines "probable" reserves as "those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered." The SEC defines "possible" reserves as "those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than probable reserves." Williams has applied these definitions in estimating probable and possible reserves. Statements of reserves are only estimates and may not correspond to the ultimate quantities of oil and gas recovered. Any reserve estimates provided in this presentation that are not specifically designated as being estimates of proved reserves may include estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with, or contemplated by, the SECs reserves reporting guidelines. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Williams' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, available from Williams at One Williams Center, Tulsa, OK 74172 (Attn: Investor Relations). You can also obtain this report from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at .
www.sec.gov
The SEC's rules prohibit us from filing resource estimates. Our resource estimations include estimates of hydrocarbon quantities for (i) new areas for which we do not have sufficient information to date to classify as proved, probable or even possible reserves, (ii) other areas to take into account the low level of certainty of recovery of the resources and (iii) uneconomic proved, probable or possible reserves. Resource estimates do not take into account the certainty of resource recovery and are therefore not indicative of the expected future recovery and should not be relied upon. Resource estimates might never be recovered and are contingent on exploration success, technical improvements in drilling access, commerciality and other factors.


