FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20120425171224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On April 25, 2012, The Williams Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release and accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
The press release and accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
April 25, 2012
DATE:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) announced first-quarter 2012 unaudited net income attributable to Williams of $423 million, or $0.70 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $321 million, or $0.54 per share on a diluted basis for first-quarter 2011.
On a continuing basis, improved results in the Williams Partners and Midstream Canada & Olefins segments were more than offset by the absence of a $124 million income tax benefit primarily associated with a federal settlement that was recorded during first-quarter 2011. The absence of the tax benefit drove the slight decline in income from continuing operations in first-quarter 2012.
 
The increase in first-quarter 2012 net income is primarily due to gains in discontinued operations associated with the sale of Williams' former assets in Venezuela. The agreement to sell those assets was announced on March 26.
Prior-period results throughout this release have been recast to reflect the separation of Williams' former exploration and production business on Dec. 31, 2011. The results of the former exploration and production business are reported in discontinued operations for first-quarter 2011.
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations
Adjusted income from continuing operations was $236 million, or $0.39 per share, for first-quarter 2012, compared with $169 million, or $0.28 per share for first-quarter 2011.
The increase in the adjusted income from continuing operations for first-quarter 2012 was due to improved results in both the Williams Partners and Midstream Canada & Olefins segments. Higher fee-based revenues and natural gas liquid (NGL) margins at Williams Partners and higher ethylene margins at Midstream Canada & Olefins drove the improved results. There is a more detailed description of the business results later in this press release.
Adjusted income from continuing operations reflects the removal of items considered unrepresentative of ongoing operations and are non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations to the most relevant GAAP measures are attached to this news release.
CEO Comment
, Williams' president and chief executive officer, made the following comments:
Alan Armstrong
"We've made a strong start to 2012, with our businesses performing well and driving a 39 percent increase in our adjusted earnings per share.
"Expansion projects at Williams Partners drove strong increases in fee-based revenues, while Midstream Canada & Olefins continues to perform well.
"Growth projects across our businesses are ongoing; we completed the financing transactions and are poised to complete Williams Partners'  a major milestone in our goal to be the leading gathering, processing and transportation solution provider for producers in the Marcellus Shale.
Caiman acquisition
 
"We're also continuing to work on projects that will serve the booming petrochemical industry in North America. The expansion of our Geismar olefins production facility is under way and we expect to place our Boreal pipeline in Canada into service in May, slightly ahead of schedule."
Business Segment Results
Williams' business segments for financial reporting are Williams Partners, Midstream Canada & Olefins, and Other. The Williams Partners segment includes the consolidated results of (NYSE:WPZ), and includes the results of Williams' Canadian midstream and domestic olefins business.
Williams Partners L.P.
Midstream Canada & Olefins
 
 
 
Williams Partners
Williams Partners is focused on natural gas transportation, gathering, treating, processing and storage; NGL fractionation; and oil transportation.
For first-quarter 2012, Williams Partners reported segment profit of $488 million, compared with $437 million for first-quarter 2011.
 
Higher fee-based revenues and NGL margins in the partnership's midstream business, as well as improved results in the gas pipeline business, drove the improvement in the first quarter. A decline in margins related to the marketing of NGLs for the partnership and third parties, together with higher selling, general and administrative expenses partially offset these improvements.
The improvement in Williams Partners' gas pipeline business was primarily due to increased revenue from expansion projects placed into service in 2011.
Williams Partners
 
 
Fee-based revenues in the partnership's midstream business increased by 19 percent in first-quarter 2012. The increase was driven by higher volumes in the partnership's Susquehanna Supply Hub area of the Marcellus Shale, as well as higher volumes on the Perdido Norte gas and oil pipelines in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Also, gathering volumes in the West were higher than first-quarter 2011 when severe winter weather conditions in the Rockies reduced gas production volumes.
Lower average natural gas prices, partially offset by lower ethane prices, as well as an increase in NGL equity volumes sold, drove the 17-percent increase in Williams Partners' NGL margins in the first quarter. The decline in NGL margins from fourth-quarter 2011 to first-quarter 2012 was due to significantly lower ethane prices. A large number of ethane cracker turnarounds was the primary driver of the lower ethane prices.
There is a more detailed description of Williams Partners' interstate gas pipeline and midstream business results in the partnership's first-quarter 2012 financial results news release, which is also being issued today.
 
Midstream Canada & Olefins
Midstream Canada & Olefins includes Williams' operations in the United States and Canada focused on recovering and producing ethylene, propylene, NGLs and other related products.
Midstream Canada & Olefins reported segment profit of $103 million for first-quarter 2012, compared with $74 million for first-quarter 2011.
Higher per-unit Geismar ethylene production margins, as well as higher volumes, were the primary driver of the improved segment profit in first-quarter 2012.
Other
The Other segment benefited from gains related to the 2010 sale of the company's Accroven investment in Venezuela of $53 million in 2012 and $11 million in 2011.
Earnings Guidance Slightly Increased, Dividend Guidance Reaffirmed
Williams' 2012 and 2014 adjusted earnings per share guidance, issued on March 19 in conjunction with Williams Partners' Caiman acquisition, is being slightly increased. Previous adjusted earnings per share guidance for 2013 is unchanged.
Williams' guidance midpoints for expected adjusted earnings per share are $1.40 in 2012, $1.55 in 2013 and $1.83 in 2014. The projected adjusted earnings per share amount of $1.83 in 2014 is a 49-percent increase over Williams' 2011 adjusted earnings per share of $1.23.
The company's capital expenditure outlook for 2012 and 2014 is unchanged from the guidance issued on March 19. Capital expenditure guidance for 2013 is being increased by $75 million at the midpoint, primarily to reflect Williams Partners' Virginia Southside expansion project on the Transco system.
The company also continues to expect a full-year 2012 dividend to shareholders of $1.20 per share. The planned 2012 dividend is a 55 percent increase over the full-year 2011 dividend to shareholders of $0.775 per share. The company also continues to expect an increase of its dividend by 20 percent in both 2013 and 2014.
Williams' 2012-14 commodity price assumptions and guidance data is available in today's earnings presentation that will be posted shortly at .
www.williams.com/investors
 
Annual Analyst Day Meeting Set for May 22
Williams plans to host its annual Analyst Day on Tuesday, May 22. The event will feature in-depth presentations on Williams Partners' midstream and gas pipeline businesses, as well as Williams' midstream Canada and olefins business.
Presenters will include Alan Armstrong, president and chief executive officer; Don Chappel, chief financial officer; Randy Barnard, president of the gas pipeline business; Rory Miller, president of the midstream business; and other key members of Williams' management team.
Williams' Analyst Day will be broadcast live via webcast beginning on May 22 at 8:45 a.m. EDT. Participants can access the webcast at or . Slides will be available on the morning of the event on both web sites for viewing, downloading and printing. A replay of the Analyst Day webcast will be available for two weeks following the event at the web sites listed above.
www.williams.com
www.williamslp.com
First-Quarter Materials to be Posted Shortly; Q&A Webcast Scheduled for Tomorrow
Williams' first-quarter 2012 financial results package will be posted shortly at . The package will include the data book and analyst package, and the investor presentation with a recorded commentary from CEO Alan Armstrong.
www.williams.com
The company will host the first-quarter Q&A live webcast on Thursday, April 26 at 9:30 a.m. EDT. A link to the live webcast of the event, as well as replays in both streaming and downloadable podcast formats, will be available at . A limited number of phone lines will be available at (888) 428-9498. International callers should dial (719) 325-2425.
www.williams.com
Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes certain financial measures  adjusted segment profit, fee-based revenues, adjusted income from continuing operations ("earnings") and adjusted earnings per share  that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted segment profit, adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share measures exclude items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations. Management believes these measures provide investors meaningful insight into the company's results from ongoing operations. Fee-based Revenues includes total revenues less commodity-based and tracked revenue. Such excluded items can be volatile due to changing market conditions, which are largely beyond our management's control. Fee-based revenues provides investors with information about the growth of our revenues that are not subject to this volatility.
 
This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare a company's performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the company and aid investor understanding. Neither adjusted segment profit, fee-based revenues, adjusted earnings, nor adjusted earnings per share measures are intended to represent an alternative to revenues, segment profit, net income or earnings per share. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is one of the leading energy infrastructure companies in North America. It owns interests in or operates 15,000 miles of interstate gas pipelines, 1,000 miles of NGL transportation pipelines, and more than 10,000 miles of oil and gas gathering pipelines. The company's facilities have daily gas processing capacity of 6.6 billion cubic feet of natural gas and NGL production of more than 200,000 barrels per day. Williams owns a 69-percent ownership interest in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), one of the largest diversified energy master limited partnerships. Williams Partners owns most of Williams' interstate gas pipeline and domestic midstream assets. The company's headquarters is in Tulsa, Okla.
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management's plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this announcement. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on Feb. 28, 2012, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at .
www.williams.com
 
 
Reconciliation of Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. to Adjusted Income
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
Note: The sum of earnings per share for the quarters may not equal the total earnings per share for the year due to changes in the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding.
 
Consolidated Statement of Income
(UNAUDITED)
 
Note: The sum of earnings (loss) per share for the quarters may not equal the total earnings (loss) per share for the year due to changes in the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding.
 
Reconciliation of Segment Profit (Loss) to Adjusted Segment Profit (Loss)
(UNAUDITED)
 
Note: Segment profit (loss) includes equity earnings (losses) and income (loss) from investments reported in investing income  net in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Equity earnings (losses) results from investments accounted for under the equity method. Income (loss) from investments results from the management of certain equity investments.
 
Williams Partners
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
Midstream Canada & Olefins
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
Capital Expenditures and Investments
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization and Other Selected Financial Data
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
2012 Forecast GuidanceReported to Adjusted
 
Reconciliation of Forecasted Reported Income from Continuing Operations to Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations
 
Note: All amounts attributable to Williams
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliation of Fee Revenues to Total Segment Revenues
(UNAUDITED)
 
 


