FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20120801172345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.    .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 1, 2012, The Williams Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the press release and accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
The press release and accompanying financial highlights and operating statistics and reconciliation schedules are being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01.    .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Aug. 1, 2012
DATE:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TULSA, Okla.  (NYSE: WMB) announced second-quarter 2012 unaudited net income attributable to Williams of $132 million, or $0.21 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $227 million, or $0.38 per share on a diluted basis for second-quarter 2011.
Williams
 
A sharp decline in natural gas liquid (NGL) margins and other factors at Williams Partners, as well as the absence of $56 million in income from discontinued operations in second-quarter 2011, drove the decline in net income during second-quarter 2012.
For the first half of 2012, Williams reported net income of $555 million, or $0.90 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $548 million, or $0.92 per share, for the same time period in 2011.
The increase in year-to-date 2012 net income is primarily due to gains associated with the sale of Williams' former assets in Venezuela. A number of factors mostly offset this benefit, including the absence of a $124 million income tax benefit primarily associated with a federal settlement that was recorded during first-quarter 2011; and the previously noted decline in NGL margins at Williams Partners and other factors during the second quarter of 2012.
Prior-period results throughout this release have been recast to reflect the separation of Williams' former exploration and production business on Dec. 31, 2011. The results of the former exploration and production business are reported in discontinued operations for 2011.
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations
Adjusted income from continuing operations was $138 million, or $0.22 per share, for second-quarter 2012, compared with $172 million, or $0.29 per share for second-quarter 2011. The second-quarter adjusted results are $0.01 higher than the estimate of $0.21 per share that the company provided in its July 23 guidance news release.
The decline in adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 2012 is due to lower results at Williams Partners driven by the sharply lower NGL margins and other factors in the second quarter.
Year-to-date through June 30, adjusted income from continuing operations was $374 million, or $0.61 per share, compared with $341 million, or $0.57 per share for the first half of 2011.
The increase in adjusted income from continuing operations for the first half of 2012 was due to improvement in the Midstream Canada & Olefins segment, driven by a strong first quarter, and decreased interest expense reflecting both corporate debt retirements in December 2011 and increased capitalized interest at Midstream Canada & Olefins associated with construction projects. Lower second-quarter results in the Williams Partners segment partially offset these benefits in the year-to-date period.
 
Adjusted income from continuing operations reflects the removal of items considered unrepresentative of ongoing operations and is a non-GAAP measure. Reconciliation to the most relevant GAAP measure is attached to this news release.
CEO Comment
, Williams' president and chief executive officer, made the following comments:
Alan Armstrong
"As we previously announced, the second-quarter results were driven down by a sharp decline in NGL prices. While we lowered our 2012 and 2013 earnings guidance, we raised our 2014 earnings guidance and reaffirmed our commitment to delivering strong dividend growth.
"We continue to see growth in Williams Partners' fee-based revenue, particularly in the partnership's midstream business, where the fee-based revenue was up 19 percent during the second quarter; we expect that trend to continue, as Williams Partners' fee-based business is expected to be more than 80 percent of its total business by 2014.
"Furthermore, the proposed drop-down of the Geismar facility will significantly benefit both Williams and Williams Partners. We expect to continue to see volatility in the natural gas-to-ethane spread as domestic NGL markets go through growth spurts and periods of oversupply prior to significant new cracking capacity coming online in 2015 and beyond. This will shift Williams Partners' commodity exposure from ethane to ethylene which we expect to be in tighter supply during this same period."
Business Segment Results
Williams' business segments for financial reporting are Williams Partners, Midstream Canada & Olefins, and Other. The Williams Partners segment includes the consolidated results of (NYSE:WPZ), and includes the results of Williams' Canadian midstream and domestic olefins business
Williams Partners L.P.
Midstream Canada & Olefins
.
 
 
 
Williams Partners
Williams Partners is focused on natural gas transportation, gathering, treating, processing and storage; NGL fractionation; and oil transportation.
For second-quarter 2012, Williams Partners reported segment profit of $339 million, compared with $471 million for second-quarter 2011. Year-to-date through June 30, Williams Partners reported $827 million in segment profit, compared with $908 million for the same period in 2011.
The decline in Williams Partners' segment profit during the second quarter and year-to-date 2012 is primarily due to a significant decline in NGL prices, primarily in the second quarter of 2012, which led to lower NGL margins and lower marketing margins in Williams Partners' midstream business. Other factors also negatively affected the second-quarter results, including higher expenses, primarily associated with the partnership's recent acquisitions. An increase in fee-based revenue, including an increase of 19 percent in the partnership's midstream business, partially offset the negative impacts of lower NGL prices and other factors.
 
Williams Partners
 
 
The increase in fee-based revenues during second-quarter 2012 was primarily due to new volumes on Williams Partners' recently acquired Ohio Valley Midstream system and Susquehanna Supply Hub gathering assets in the Marcellus Shale and higher volumes on the Perdido Norte gas and oil pipelines in the western deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
As previously announced, Williams Partners maintained its outlook for strong annual cash distribution growth. It expects an increase of 8 percent in 2012 and 9 percent in both 2013 and 2014 at guidance midpoints.
There is a more detailed description of Williams Partners' interstate gas pipeline and midstream business results in the partnership's second-quarter 2012 financial results news release, which is also being issued today.
Midstream Canada & Olefins
Midstream Canada & Olefins includes Williams' operations in the United States and Canada focused on recovering, transporting, storing and producing ethylene, propylene, NGLs and other related products.
Midstream Canada & Olefins reported segment profit of $68 million for second-quarter 2012, compared with $72 million for second-quarter 2011.
The slight decline in segment profit during second-quarter 2012 was due to lower Canadian NGL product margins driven by lower sales volumes and lower per-unit margins. The lower sales volumes were due to the impact of filling the new Boreal Pipeline, which was placed into service in June. These items were mostly offset by higher Geismar ethylene product margins.
For the first half of 2012, Midstream Canada & Olefins reported segment profit of $171 million, compared with $146 million for the first half of 2011. The increase in segment profit for the first half of 2012 was primarily due to strong
 
results in the first quarter, driven by higher Geismar ethylene product sales margins and higher Geismar butadiene and other product margins. These items were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance costs and lower Canadian NGL product margins.
Other
The Other segment benefited from gains related to the 2010 sale of the company's Accroven investment in Venezuela of $53 million in the year-to-date 2012 period and $11 million in the year-to-date 2011 period.
Guidance Unchanged from July 23 Announcement
Williams' guidance issued for dividends, earnings and capital expenditures for 2012-14 is unchanged. Williams continues to expect to pay a full-year 2012 shareholder dividend of $1.20 per share, a 55 percent increase over 2011. As well, the company expects the full-year dividend it pays shareholders in each of 2013 and 2014 to increase by 20 percent  to $1.44 and $1.75 per share, respectively.
on July 23
Williams' revised guidance midpoints for full-year 2012 and 2013 are, respectively, $1.15 and $1.38 for adjusted earnings per share. For 2014, the company's guidance for adjusted earnings per share is a range with midpoint of $1.95  a level 59 percent higher than the $1.23 it reported in 2011.
As previously reported on July 23, Williams' guidance ranges were based on lower near-term NGL prices resulting from record warm winter, high third-party ethylene cracker downtime, growing supplies and other factors.
Williams continues to expect the influence of NGL prices on its earnings to diminish over the next few years as it transitions to a business mix that is increasingly fee-based in its Williams Partners segment. The company's 2013 and 2014 earnings expectations reflect that shift to greater fee-based business; the benefit of projects coming into service; and some improvement from current NGL market conditions.
The previously reported increase in 2014 earnings guidance is based on the ethylene crack spread recovering to the first-half 2012 level, the strength of the company's fundamental businesses, growth and some improvement in NGL prices.
For capital and investing expenditures, the company's guidance includes ranges with midpoints of $6.7 billion in 2012, $3.6 billion in 2013 and $2.6 billion in 2014. The 2013 and 2014 ranges do not include a number of potential projects in development that have not yet been placed into guidance.
 
Second-Quarter Materials to be Posted Shortly; Q&A Webcast Scheduled for Tomorrow
Williams' second-quarter 2012 financial results package will be posted shortly at . The package will include the data book and analyst package, and the investor presentation with a recorded commentary from CEO Alan Armstrong.
www.williams.com
The company will host the second-quarter Q&A live webcast on Thursday, Aug. 2 at 9:30 a.m. EDT. A link to the live webcast of the event, as well as replays in both streaming and downloadable podcast formats, will be available at . A limited number of phone lines will be available at (888) 430-8690. International callers should dial (719) 325-2356.
www.williams.com
Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes certain financial measures  adjusted segment profit, fee-based revenues, adjusted income from continuing operations ("earnings") and adjusted earnings per share  that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted segment profit, adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share measures exclude items of income or loss that the company characterizes as unrepresentative of its ongoing operations. Management believes these measures provide investors meaningful insight into the company's results from ongoing operations. Fee-based revenues include total revenues less commodity-based and tracked revenue. Such excluded items can be volatile due to changing market conditions, which are largely beyond our management's control. Fee-based revenues provide investors with information about the growth of our revenues that are not subject to this volatility.
This press release is accompanied by a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare a company's performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the company and aid investor understanding. Neither fee-based revenues, adjusted segment profit, adjusted earnings, nor adjusted earnings per share measures are intended to represent an alternative to revenues, segment profit, net income or earnings per share. They should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
Williams is one of the leading energy infrastructure companies in North America. It owns interests in or operates 15,000 miles of interstate gas pipelines, 1,000 miles of NGL transportation pipelines, and more than 10,000 miles of oil and gas gathering pipelines. The company's facilities have daily gas processing capacity of 6.6 billion cubic feet of natural gas and NGL production of more than 200,000 barrels per day. Williams owns a 68-percent ownership interest in (NYSE: WPZ), one of the largest diversified energy master limited partnerships. Williams Partners owns most of Williams' interstate gas pipeline and domestic midstream assets. The company's headquarters is in Tulsa, Okla.
Williams Partners L.P.
 
Our reports, filings, and other public announcements may include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management's plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "continues," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "potential," "projects," "scheduled," "will" "guidance," "in service date" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:
,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this announcement. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.
Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on Feb. 28, 2012, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available from our offices or from our website at .
www.williams.com
 
 
Reconciliation of Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. to Adjusted Income
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
Note: The sum of earnings per share for the quarters may not equal the total earnings per share for the year due to changes in the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding.
 
Consolidated Statement of Income
(UNAUDITED)
 
Note: The sum of earnings (loss) per share for the quarters may not equal the total earnings (loss) per share for the year due to changes in the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding.
 
Reconciliation of Segment Profit (Loss) to Adjusted Segment Profit (Loss)
(UNAUDITED)
 
Note: Segment profit (loss) includes equity earnings (losses) and income (loss) from investments reported in investing income - net in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Equity earnings (losses) results from investments accounted for under the equity method. Income (loss) from investments results from the management of certain equity investments.
 
Williams Partners
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
Midstream Canada & Olefins
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
Capital Expenditures and Investments
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization and Other Selected Financial Data
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
2012 Forecast GuidanceReported to Adjusted
 
Segment Profit GuidanceReported to Adjusted
 
Reconciliation of Forecasted Reported Income from Continuing Operations to Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations
 
Note: All amounts attributable to Williams
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliation of Fee Revenues to Total Segment Revenues
(UNAUDITED)
 
 


