FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20120125165442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 19, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Company") increased the size of the Board to 12 and elected John A. Hagg, Steven W. Nance, and Murray D. Smith to the Companys Board of Directors to serve until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Beginning March 1, 2012, Mr. Hagg will serve on the Boards Audit and Finance Committees, and Messrs. Nance and Smith will serve on the Boards Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees. There are no arrangements or understandings between Messrs. Hagg, Nance, and Smith and any other person pursuant to which they were selected as a director of the Company. There are no relationships between the Company or its subsidiaries, on one hand, and Messrs. Hagg, Nance, or Smith, on the other hand, that would require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. A copy of the press release publicly announcing election of Messrs. Hagg, Nance, and Smith is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits Ex. 99.1 - Copy of press release dated January 25, 2012 reporting the election of Messrs. John A. Hagg, Steven W. Nance, and Murray D. Smith to the Company's Board of Directors
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Williams (NYSE: WMB) One Williams Center Tulsa, OK 74172 800-Williams www.williams.com
Jan. 25, 2012
DATE:
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) announced today that three new members have been elected to the company's Board of Directors.  The new members are John Andrew Hagg, Steven W. Nance and Murray D. Smith.
"John, Steve and Murray all bring significant leadership experience as well as a deep knowledge across multiple disciplines in the North American energy industry to the Williams board," said Alan Armstrong, Williams' president and chief executive officer.
The new directors succeed William R. Granberry, George A. Lorch and William G. Lowrie on the Williams board, all of whom resigned and were elected as initial directors of Williams' former exploration and production business, WPX Energy, Inc. (NYSE:WPX).
Williams completed the separation of its former exploration and production business with the Dec. 31, 2011, spinoff of WPX Energy.  The spinoff is part of Williams' strategy to unlock shareholder value and transform itself into a high-dividend, high-growth energy infrastructure company.
John A. Hagg has 35 years of experience as a senior executive in the petroleum industry working in the exploration and production, service and financial sectors in Canada and the United States.  He is the currently chairman of Strad Energy Services Ltd., a public company providing drilling and production services to exploration and production companies in the United States and Canada.
John A. Hagg
He's also currently chairman of Clark Builders and a director of TMX Group Inc., and The Fraser Institute.  Hagg resides in Calgary, Alberta.
Steven W. Nance has more than 30 years of leadership experience in the oil and gas industry.  He is currently president and manager of Steele Creek Energy, LLC, a private company with investments in oil and natural gas.  He is also currently a director for Cloud Peak Energy Inc. (NYSE:CLD). 
Steven W. Nance
Nance also previously served as president of Peoples Energy Production Company and he was also previously chairman, president and chief executive officer of XPLOR Energy.  He resides in The Woodlands, Texas.
Murray D. Smith has extensive experience in the energy industry and public service in Alberta, Canada. He served as Minister of Energy for Alberta from 2001 to 2004, where he was responsible for gaining global recognition for Alberta's oil reserves.  He later also served as a diplomat, representing Alberta in Washington, D.C.
Murray D. Smith
He is currently a member of the energy advisory board of TD Securities Inc., the advisory board of Hatch, a Canada-based global engineering firm, and president of Murray Smith and Associates, which provides strategic advice to clients in the North American energy sector.  He is also a board member of Surge Energy Inc. (SGY.TO), an oil-focused oil and gas company with operations throughout Alberta, Manitoba and North Dakota; and N Solv Corporation, which owns proprietary technology for water-free oil sands in-situ extraction.  He resides in Calgary, Alberta.
Beginning March 1, 2012, Hagg will serve on the board's Audit and Finance committees, and Nance and Smith will serve on the board's Compensation and Nominating and Governance committees.
Committee Assignments
 Williams has 12 members on its board of directors. The full list is available at .
www.williams.com
Williams is one of the leading energy infrastructure companies in North America. It owns interests in or operates 15,000 miles of interstate gas pipelines, 1,000 miles of NGL transportation pipelines, and more than 10,000 miles of oil and gas gathering pipelines. The company's facilities have daily gas processing capacity of 6.6 billion cubic feet of natural gas and NGL production of more than 200,000 barrels per day. Williams owns the general-partner interest and a 73 percent limited-partner ownership interest in Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ), one of the largest diversified energy master limited partnerships. The company's headquarters is in Tulsa, Okla. More information is available at . Williams is in the process of separating its exploration and production business via a tax-free spinoff. For more information on that business, please visit . Go to to join our e-mail list.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
www.williams.com
www.wpxenergy.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


