ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the statement of financial condition and related note, as well as the forward looking statements included elsewhere in this report. To date, NYSE Euronext has not conducted any material activities other than those incidental to its formation and the matters contemplated by the Combination Agreement, such as the formation of Jefferson Merger Sub, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of NYSE Euronext) and the making of certain required regulatory filings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext authorized NYSE Euronext to accept the offer of NYSE Group to purchase and subscribe for one share of common stock at the price of $100 per share. This purchase was effected in the second quarter of 2006. Pursuant to the terms of the Combination Agreement described above, Euronexts business will be brought under NYSE Euronext through an exchange offer (the Offer) and a post closing reorganization, and NYSE Groups business will be brought under NYSE Euronext through a merger (the Merger). On January 5, 2007, NYSE Euronext and NYSE Group entered into a 2.5 billion credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), by and among NYSE Euronext, as borrower, NYSE Group, as guarantor until the completion of the Merger, the lender parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;rale, as documentation agent, and the presenting banks referred to therein. The Credit Agreement is a 364 day revolving facility with availability of funds in U.S. dollars or Euros. The purpose of the Credit Agreement is limited to the funding of the cash consideration payable to Euronext shareholders who tender their shares in the Offer. NYSE Euronext may elect to have revolving loans under the Credit Agreement borrowed in U.S. dollars or Euros, with various interest rate options. On the effective date of the Credit Agreement, no borrowings were funded under the Credit Agreement. In addition, NYSE Euronext will pay a commitment fee of 0.02% per annum of the unused commitment amount, commencing on the effective date of the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is unsecured and contains customary representations and warranties (including, but not limited to, those relating to organization and authorization, compliance with laws and litigation) and customary events of default (including, but not limited to, monetary defaults, covenant defaults and bankruptcy events). The Credit Agreement does not contain a financial covenant. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, NYSE Euronext did not conduct any material activities other than those incidental to its formation and the matters contemplated by the Combination Agreement. Therefore, NYSE Euronext did not incur any significant risk. 3 Table of Contents 
 
