FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20030722163045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 22, 2003, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. A copy of this press release is furnished with this report as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein. This information, furnished under this "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure," is intended to be furnished under "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in accordance with SEC release No. 33-8216. The information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
(c)
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 22, 2003
 
 
 
 
.
 

 
 
 
 
July 22, 2003
 
 
HIGHLIGHTS:
 
Continuing Operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Condition:
 
 
 
 
OVERALL RESULTS:
 
Continuing Operations:
 
Reported sales for the Company's and businesses combined increased 7.5% in the second quarter of 2003 compared to the same quarter of 2002, bringing the year-to-date gain to 9.2%. Currency benefits contributed 8.2% and 8.3% of the second quarter and year-to-date gains, respectively. Our earlier expectation for improvement in currency adjusted quarterly sales growth rates was impacted by continued soft market conditions in the U.S. pharmaceutical sector, the spread of this trend to Europe during the second quarter and general deterioration in the global economy.
Scientific Research, Biotechnology
Fine Chemicals
 
Reported operating and pretax income margins in the second quarter of 2003 remained consistent with first quarter 2003 levels at 21.8% and 21.0% of sales, respectively, representing a modest improvement over levels for the comparable periods of 2002. Diluted net income per share for the second quarter of 2003 rose 15.5% to $.67 from $.58 in 2002, including a $.09 benefit from currency exchange rates. Year-to-date diluted EPS was up 16.4% to $1.35, including a $.15 currency exchange rate benefit.
 
Discontinued () Operations:
Diagnostics
 
Activity in the Diagnostics business in the second quarter was minimal, resulting in no change to the previously reported diluted EPS for 2003. Sales from inventory liquidations provided diluted EPS of $.02 in the first quarter and year-to-date. Reductions in related inventory reserves and other costs to discontinue this business provided an additional $.02 to both first quarter and year-to-date diluted EPS through favorable adjustments to previously recorded losses. All activities related to discontinuing this business have been completed.
 
RESULTS FOR CONTINUING OPERATIONS (all percentage comparisons are to comparable periods in 2002):
 
Reported sales in the second quarter increased 7.5% to $327.1 million from $304.3 million in 2002. The reported year-to-date gain was 9.2%, with reported sales increasing to $661.8 million in 2003 from $605.9 million in 2002. The weaker U.S. dollar contributed 8.2% and 8.3% of the second quarter and year-to-date gains, respectively. Price increases provided another 3.2% of the second quarter and year-to-date growth, equivalent to that achieved for all of 2002. Overall unit volumes for the second quarter declined nearly 4% as units sold in both and continued to decline sequentially, offset only slightly by modest volume growth in Reported sales growth, currency benefits and currency adjusted sales changes (a measure used by management and believed useful to investors to judge the Company's controllable, local currency growth) were as follows:
Scientific Research
Biotechnology
Fine Chemicals.
 
 
Currency adjusted sales in the second quarter benefited from price increases of 4.2%, largely in line with the gain achieved in both the first quarter of 2003 and for the full year of 2002. We continue to monitor market prices and believe our current prices are in line with those of our competitors. A sequential decline in quarterly unit volume in the U.S. due to continued demand declines from pharmaceutical companies was matched with stable demand in other key domestic customer sectors. Currency adjusted sales in international markets that had been increasing in both Q1 2003 and for all of 2002 had little growth in the second quarter of 2003 as sales to pharmaceutical customers in Europe began to show similar trends to those experienced earlier in the U.S.
Scientific Research:
 
The 2.0% currency adjusted gain in the second quarter of 2003 reflects a price gain of 2.7% offset by a volume decline of 0.7%. Consistent with first quarter performance, second quarter volume growth was impacted by reduced demand for synthetic DNA from U.S. customers. Second quarter growth was also affected by slower growth in sales of various animal-sourced serum products, particularly in Europe, due to constrained market supply.
Biotechnology:
 
: Continuing enhancement and promotion of the Company's web site (rated #1 by in 2002) increased electronic orders to 27% of our U.S. and 19% of our worldwide research sales in Q2, marking more than four consecutive years of sequential quarterly gains.
Web-based Research
(Scientific Research and Biotechnology)
Sales
Bioinformatics
 
Currency adjusted sales in the second quarter were in-line with last year's second quarter after declining in the first quarter of 2003. Increased sales efforts for larger quantities of catalog products and sustained strong growth in international markets were largely offset by the continuing weaker demand from U.S. pharmaceutical customers that had begun in the second half of 2002. We are encouraged by the increase in booked orders to record levels and expect these orders to boost quarterly sales growth in the remaining quarters of 2003.
Fine Chemicals:
 
INCOME ANALYSIS:
 
The Company's reported Q2 and year-to-date net income and diluted earnings per share for continuing and discontinued operations, before and after currency impacts in 2003, are summarized below:
 
 
 
Reported pretax income from continuing operations was 21.0% of sales for the second quarter and first six months of 2003, up from 20.4% and 20.5% of sales for the second quarter and first six months of 2002, respectively, due mainly to lower interest costs from both reduced rates and borrowings. Reported operating income levels were 21.8% of sales in the second quarter and first six months of 2003, a modest improvement from the levels in the comparable periods of 2002. At $7.6 million year-
 
to-date, continuing process improvement activities are on track to hit our cost reduction goal of $15 million in 2003. Coupled with reductions in bad debt and advertising costs, these savings have enabled us to offset higher insurance, employee benefit, utility and legal defense costs thus far this year.
 
The effective tax rate for the second quarter remained at the first quarter level of 30.2%, reflecting benefits from modest increases in various tax credits as well as reductions in overall international and state tax rates versus prior year levels. The effective tax rate for all of 2003 should remain near this level, with minor variations in upcoming quarters based on changes in activity levels in tax credit generating functions and sales mix changes in geographic areas due primarily to new strategic sales and marketing initiatives.
 
OUTLOOK:
 
We expect our overall currency adjusted sales growth rate to progressively improve in the upcoming quarters of 2003. Price gains are expected to remain at the roughly 3% increase achieved to date. We believe that overall market softness will likely persist, with accelerating spending in life science areas offset by continuing pharmaceutical consolidation and political and healthcare concerns in selected countries. Recently launched sales and marketing initiatives and new product introductions are expected to progressively improve unit volumes in the upcoming quarters of 2003. Our focus on increasing both the coverage of existing key accounts and the number of new key accounts, as well as on improving sales lead follow-up and conversion, is beginning to bear fruit. Roughly one-half of our planned addition of 30 new U.S. sales representatives has been completed to date, although market demand for experienced sales people is making recruiting new representatives and retaining existing staff more difficult than expected. To address competitive activities outside the U.S., 12 additional sales representatives have also been hired in Europe. New marketing programs are focused on higher growth areas such as molecular biology and cell signaling, with new campaigns in other key life science and fine chemicals areas scheduled to follow. While these initiatives gain momentum, efforts to gain market share by promoting existing products and capabilities are also expected to enhance short-term sales growth, as evidenced by our success to date in in promoting the sale of larger quantities of catalog products to offset declines in our large-order custom manufacturing business.
Fine Chemicals
 
At current rates of exchange, we anticipate that currency will continue to benefit both sales and earnings growth during the final two quarters of 2003, although at reduced rates from those enjoyed to date. Continued benefits from process improvement initiatives and lower interest costs should continue to offset the increasing costs of our new sales and marketing initiatives, employee benefits and insurance, allowing us to maintain pre-tax margins at just over 20%. Additional modest share repurchase activities should also benefit EPS. Based on these expectations and all known factors, management is raising its estimate of projected diluted EPS from continuing operations for all of 2003 to a new range of $2.65 to $2.70.
 
With over 50% of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's controllable, local currency performance. While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur during the remainder of 2003 to applicable rates of exchange and are thus unable to provide a reconciliation of the projected non-GAAP currency adjusted internal growth rates to reported GAAP growth rates for the year 2003 as required by Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies.
 
OTHER INFORMATION:
 
Through June 30, 2003, a total of 33.0 million shares (out of an authorized repurchase of 35.0 million shares) had been acquired since beginning the program in late 1999 at an average purchase price of $33.73 per share. There were 70.8 million shares outstanding at June 30, 2003. The Company expects to continue share repurchases to acquire the remaining 2.0 million authorized shares, but the timing and number of shares purchased, if any, will depend upon market conditions and other factors.
Share Repurchase:
 
More active management of working capital continued in the second quarter. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding at June 30, 2003 remained at the 54 days achieved at March 31, 2003, a reduction of 3 days from December 31, 2002 levels. Proactive inventory management reduced inventory levels yet again to 7.4 months on hand at June 30, 2003, down from 8.0 months at year-end 2002. Since December 31, 2002, reported inventories have declined by $10.6 million, with increased valuations of $1.9 million due to currency exchange rates masking a $12.5 million reduction in quantities on shelves. These initiatives, together with increased cash from operations and lower capital expenditure levels, combined to generatesufficient cash flow to reduce total borrowings by another $42 million during the second quarter of 2003. We have reduced our debt year-to-date by $74 million. At June 30, 2003, short-term borrowings were $16 million at a weighted average interest rate of 0.9% and long-term debt was $177 million at a weighted average interest rate of 6.6%. The Company's return on equity was 19.8%, essentially equivalent to that at March 31, 2003 despite a $23 million second quarter increase in equity from the effect of stronger international exchange rates on net asset values. At current exchange rates and expected operating performance levels, we expect to fully achieve our 20% goal in 2003, one year earlier than initially promised back in late 1999.
Working Capital, Debt and ROE:
 
CEO's STATEMENT:
 
Commenting on second quarter performance and our outlook for 2003, Chairman and CEO David Harvey said, "I am pleased with our ability to maintain profit margins and strong growth in earnings per share against the backdrop of difficult broader macroeconomic conditions. While our recent sales growth has been impacted by global economic conditions and pharmaceutical industry consolidation, it was with the very expectation of these conditions that we reorganized to launch our new sales and marketing initiatives at the beginning of the year. We, like others, underestimated the magnitude of these conditions. But we recognize them now and we've redoubled our efforts to preserve our world class service, to focus even more heavily on quality and to accelerate planned new sales and marketing initiatives with renewed vigor. As we've maintained all along, we've set high standards  ones not easily achieved  to distinguish ourselves from our competitors. We've hit them in the past and we believe they are still achievable over the long-term. We look to improve on our recent sales growth in the remaining quarters of 2003."
 
Continuing to reflect on the Company's achievements thus far, Harvey commented, "I am also pleased with the great strides we've made in making more effective use of our assets. Profits are strong. Cash flows are strong. And we're gaining on fully productive use of our existing facilities. Our challenge is to invest our cash in opportunities that provide returns comparable to or better than current levels. While recent acquisitions in our markets may have been attractive to others, they would not have provided our desired returns. We continue to actively seek acquisition and licensing opportunities, but only those that will meet both our growth and return objectives."
 
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and chemical manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 34 countries and has 6,000 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to the success of our Customers, Employees and Shareholders through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com
 
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to future performance, goals, strategic actions and initiatives and similar intentions and beliefs, including without limitation the "Highlights", "Outlook", "CEO's Statement" and "Other Information-Share Repurchase" sections contained above and other statements regarding the Company's expectations, goals, beliefs, intentions and the like regarding future sales, earnings, return on equity and other matters. These statements involve assumptions regarding Company operations, investments and acquisitions and conditions in the markets the Company serves. Although the Company believes its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in this news release, due to, but not limited to, such factors as (1) changes in pricing and the competitive environment, (2) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates, (3) changes in research funding, (4) uncertainties surrounding government healthcare reform, (5) government regulations applicable to the business, (6) the impact of fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, (7) the effectiveness of the Company's further implementation of its global software systems, (8) the ability to retain customers, suppliers and employees and (9) the outcome of the matters described in Note 13- Contingent Liabilities and Commitments-in the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2003. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Cautionary Statement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


