FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20040816144812.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
 
On August 13, 2004, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation issued a press release announcing the election of Jai Nagarkatti as the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer. A copy of this press release is furnished with this report as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 16, 2004
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
August 13, 2004
 
 
The Sigma-Aldrich Corporation's Board of Directors announced today the election of Jai Nagarkatti, 57, (President of the Scientific Research Business Unit) as President and Chief Operating Officer. David R. Harvey, 65, will relinquish his role as President but continue as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
 
David R. Harvey, speaking on behalf of the Board, stated "This organizational change further strengthens the ability of our company to deliver long-term shareholder value. Overall our aim remains to improve the services we provide customers worldwide by fully recognizing and better utilizing the talents of our committed employees."
 
Reporting to Nagarkatti in his new role will be the Company's three business units of Scientific Research, Biotechnology and Fine Chemicals. Other functions will continue to report directly to Harvey.
 
Nagarkatti's 28-year Sigma-Aldrich career has spanned R&D, manufacturing, operations and sales and marketing. Since the beginning of 2003, he has been President of Scientific Research, the Company's largest business unit. Previously he was President of the Fine Chemicals business.
 
Jai Nagarkatti, a U.S. citizen, was born in Hyderabad, India. He obtained his Master's degree in chemistry at Osmania University in Hyderabad and subsequently a Ph.D. in organic chemistry at Texas A&M University-Commerce.
 
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and chemical manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 34 countries and has over 6,000 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to the success of our Customers, Employees and Shareholders through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com


