FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20040723094834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 22, 2004, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the release is furnished with this report as exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 23, 2004
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
July 22, 2004
 
 
HIGHLIGHTS:
 
Continuing Operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Condition:
 
 
 
Outlook:
 
 
 
OVERALL RESULTS:
 
Continuing Operations:
 
Reported sales increased 6.6% in the second quarter of 2004 compared to the same quarter in 2003, with a year-to-date gain of 8.3%. Currency benefits provided 3.7% and 5.8% of the second quarter and year-to-date gains, respectively, as major international currencies weakened against the U.S. dollar during the second quarter. The April 2004 acquisition of Ultrafine and June 22, 2004 acquisition of Tetrionics contributed 0.6 and 0.3 percentage points to the second quarter and year-to date growth, respectively. Overall, currency adjusted internal sales grew by 2.3%, improving on the 2.1% currency adjusted growth achieved in Q1. Research sales (and ) growth improved in both U.S. and international markets for the second successive quarter as increased sales efforts, supported by improved marketing programs, were further helped by improved conditions in the pharmaceutical industry that produced a modest gain in our sales to both U.S. and European pharmaceutical customers. sales in the second quarter, excluding the acquisition benefit, were affected by the variable timing of large orders from U.S. pharmaceutical and other manufacturers, largely offsetting the improved currency adjusted performance in Research sales.
Scientific Research
Biotechnology
Fine Chemicals
 
Reported operating and pretax income margins in the second quarter of 2004 were 23.8% and 23.1% of sales, respectively, continuing the margin improvement achieved in the first quarter of 2004. Currency and process improvement benefits, higher average sales prices, favorable product mix and lower interest costs more than offset increased costs from new sales and marketing initiatives.
 
Reported diluted net income per share for the second quarter of 2004 rose 26.9% to $.85 from $.67 in 2003, including an $.11 benefit from currency exchange rates and $.05 from an international tax benefit. Year-to-date diluted EPS increased 29.6% to $1.75, with $.23 and $.10 from currency rate and tax benefits, respectively. The Q2 earnings contribution from acquired businesses was negligible, with results in future quarters of 2004 expected to be slightly accretive.
 
SALES RESULTS FOR CONTINUING OPERATIONS (all percentage comparisons are to comparable periods in 2003):
 
Reported sales in the second quarter increased 6.6% to $348.6 million from $327.0 million in 2003. The reported year-to-date gain was 8.3%, with sales increasing to $716.7 million from $661.7 million in 2003. The weaker U.S. dollar contributed 3.7% and 5.8% of the second quarter and year-to-date gains, respectively. Overall price increases in the second quarter remained consistent with the 2.3% gain achieved in the first quarter of 2004, but below the 3.0% achieved in 2003 due largely to conscious pricing decisions reflective of lower worldwide inflation rates. Consistent with performance in the final quarter of 2003 and the first quarter of 2004, overall unit volumes for the second quarter again showed improvement. Gains in Research units sold were exactly offset by a volume decline in to produce flat unit sales in Q2, excluding the acquisition contribution. While this performance represents a modest improvement from the 0.2% volume decline in Q1, it is a major improvement from results achieved in any of the quarterly periods in 2003. Reported sales growth, currency benefits and currency adjusted sales changes were as follows:
Fine Chemicals
 
 
Currency adjusted sales in the second quarter benefited from an average price increase of 2.9%, equal to that achieved in Q1. Sales volume increased 0.6%, reversing the declines experienced over the last six quarters. The benefits of our aggressive global sales and marketing activities were further helped by a modest improvement in demand from U.S. and European pharmaceutical customers.
Scientific Research:
 
A price gain of 2.7% in Q2 was largely in-line with the 2.6% achieved in Q1 and the 2.8% gain achieved in 2003. While improved sales to pharmaceutical customers equivalent to that achieved in reduced the volume decline from the 1.7% in Q1 to 0.6% in Q2, demand continues to be affected by reduced worldwide demand for synthetic DNA and declines in the sale of various animal-sourced serum products in U.S. and international markets.
Biotechnology:
Scientific Research
 
and combined) Sales: Electronic ordering by U.S. research customers through the Company's web site (rated #1 by in three
Web-based Research (
Scientific Research
Biotechnology
Bioinformatics
 
successive annual surveys) increased to 32% of Research sales in the second quarter, driving worldwide sales through the web to 23% of consolidated Research sales in Q2.
 
The second quarter acquisitions of Ultrafine and Tetrionics added 3.4% to this unit's growth in Q2. Currency adjusted sales excluding this acquisition benefit declined 1.4% from Q2 2003, reflecting the traditional inconsistent quarterly sales patterns in this business. This performance reflects strong sales growth in most major industry sectors in Europe that was offset by lower demand due to the timing of orders from U.S. pharmaceutical and other manufacturers. Booked orders for future delivery, one partial indicator of possible future sales results, were strong.
Fine Chemicals:
 
INCOME ANALYSIS:
 
The Company's reported Q2 and year-to-date net income and diluted earnings per share for continuing and discontinued operations, before and after currency impacts and an international tax benefit in 2004, are summarized below:
 
 
Reported operating income improved to 23.8% and 23.6% of sales for the second quarter and first six months of 2004, respectively, up from 21.8% of sales for both the second quarter and first six months of 2003. The operating income margin improvement in 2004 over 2003 reflects improved gross margins and a small decline in R&D spending levels partially offset by planned additions to our sales force and new marketing programs. This is also a modest improvement from the 23.4% of sales
 
achieved in the first quarter of 2004, with the increase due to a lower level of non-sales related operating expenses resulting from process improvement activities and other cost reductions.
 
Gross margins exceeded 53% in the first two quarters of 2004, representing the highest level achieved since launching our new sales, process improvement and profit initiatives in 2000. This gross margin improvement came from continued currency benefits, higher average sales prices, favorable product mix and increased cost reductions from process improvement activities. R&D spending in Q2 2004 was 2.9% of sales, consistent with the Q1 2004 level, but below the 3.2% of sales level for the first half of 2003. While maintaining our commitment to new product development in 2004, we expect to boost these expenditures to the previously announced level of 4% of sales over the next several years. S,G&A expenses increased as a percentage of sales in Q2 2004 compared to last year's second quarter as savings from process improvement activities only partially offset cost increases for sales force additions and new marketing programs. These programs were initially launched in 2003 and further expanded during the first half of 2004 as part of an overall program to drive sales growth at above market levels.
 
Reported pretax income from continuing operations was 23.1% and 23.0% of sales for the second quarter and first six months of 2004, respectively, up from 21.0% for the second quarter and first six months of 2003. This improvement reflects the operating results noted above and reduced interest costs in 2004 compared to 2003 due to reduced interest rates and amounts borrowed, as well as interest earned on higher cash balances in 2004.
 
The tax rate reduction from 30.2% in 2003 to 26.0% in 2004 reflects benefits from changing our worldwide organizational structure to align our legal entities with our international operating organization. Absent changes in U.S. federal taxes described in the following "Outlook" section, we expect to maintain our effective tax rate at roughly 26% for all of 2004.
 
OUTLOOK:
 
We continue to expect our overall currency adjusted sales growth to improve in the second half of 2004. Our ongoing sales and marketing efforts and anticipated rebounds in the U.S. and international markets, particularly in the pharmaceutical sector, are expected to boost currency adjusted internal sales gains in the second half of 2004. Price gains are expected to continue roughly in-line with the 2.3% gain achieved to date. The second quarter acquisitions of Ultrafine and Tetrionics are expected to add about 2% to otherwise reportable growth in the final two quarters of the year. Overall, we expect to achieve a currency adjusted sales gain for the full year in the 4-5% range. Combined with currency benefits realized in the first half of 2004 and those expected in the second half if rates remain at June 30, 2004 levels, total reported sales are expected to grow by 8-10% for the full year.
 
We are encouraged by our growth in currency adjusted sales in the first two quarters of 2004, but continue to believe that our worldwide markets will remain below their traditional currency adjusted growth pace of 4-5% for the remainder of 2004 and perhaps even into 2005. While these market conditions have deferred the timing of more robust internal sales growth, we believe they have also led to an increased level of acquisition activity in life science and high technology areas in both research and fine chemicals. We continue to have interest in acquisitions that can meet our long-term growth and return goals and will continue to evaluate opportunities even though recent additions will fully provide our 2% growth goal from acquisitions for the second half of 2004.
 
At current exchange rates, we also expect continued, though more modest, profit benefits from the weaker U.S. dollar. Process improvement activities are expected to exceed earlier expectations for a $15 million benefit in 2004, with potential savings approaching the $18-19 million realized in each of
 
the last two years within reach. Operating and pretax profit margins may moderate from improved first half levels, but are expected to remain above the 21.8% and 21.0% levels, respectively, achieved for 2003. Our two recent acquisitions are expected to contribute similar profit margins. Absent an adverse general resolution of U.S. federal tax issues regarding export tax benefits and/or continuation of R&D tax credits, our effective tax rate is expected to remain at roughly 26% through 2004. Additional modest share repurchase activities may also benefit EPS.
 
Based on the increased process improvement savings and sales expectations described above, a modest positive EPS contribution from acquisitions, somewhat reduced expectations for currency benefits from the recent strengthening of the dollar and all other known factors, management's expectation for diluted EPS from continuing operations for all of 2004 has been raised by $.05 to a new range of $3.30 to $3.35. This EPS expectation represents a 23-25% increase over the $2.68 reported for 2003, with approximately 80% of the increase contributed by currency and the reduction in our effective tax rate.
 
CEO's STATEMENT:
 
Commenting on second quarter performance and expectations for the remainder of 2004, Chairman and CEO David Harvey said: "I remain pleased with and encouraged by our year-to-date results. The gains achieved in the second quarter show that our efforts to boost sales growth are beginning to produce desired results. And, our process improvement program continues to beat our goals. Coupling these efforts with the positive momentum we have seen in our underlying markets, I look forward to improving further on the Company's first half results. Though it's early, we're delighted with how smoothly initial integration efforts have gone on our two recent additions in Fine Chemicals  Ultrafine and Tetrionics. Overall, we really believe we're moving in the right direction."
 
"Whatever general growth opportunities world economies may provide, our goal remains to take share by exceeding market rates of growth. We intend to supplement current sales and marketing initiatives with even more effort to boost internet based sales. Our web site was recognized as #1 in recent surveys and we will accept nothing less here than to remain the undisputed internet leader. We also intend to boost R&D expenditures, having recently added a new and experienced vice president to better coordinate and exploit our efforts here and abroad. Our goal remains to add new products and provide innovative solutions that meet or exceed our research and fine chemicals customers' needs. Finally, we'll continue to seek acquisitions that offer the opportunity to meet our growth and return objectives."
 
"Our stock price remains strong, having reached a new all time-high at the end of the second quarter. While appreciative of the market's reaction to our results, we are far from complacent. Our team remains committed to delivering even more value to both customers and shareholders. Demand appears to be resurgent, providing us with both new challenges and new opportunities. I remain confident that our course will enable us to achieve the long-term growth and returns we seek in life sciences and high technology."
 
OTHER INFORMATION:
 
The Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures to supplement its GAAP disclosures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Company's industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
With over 50% of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's controllable, local currency performance. While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur during 2004 to applicable rates of exchange and are thus unable to provide a reconciliation of the projected non-GAAP, currency adjusted internal growth rates to reported GAAP growth rates for the year 2004 as required by Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies.
 
Management also reports both GAAP and adjusted sales and income amounts and comparisons to reflect what it believes is ongoing and/or comparable operating results excluding currency impacts and unusual and/or non-recurring items, including the international tax benefit in 2004. Management excludes these unusual and/or non-recurring items in judging its performance and believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as well.
 
Another 0.2 million shares were acquired in the second quarter of 2004, bringing the total acquired in 2004 to 0.4 million shares and the total acquired since beginning the program in late 1999 to 35.4 million shares at average purchase prices of $57.45 per share and $35.11 per share, respectively. There were 69.1 million shares outstanding at June 30, 2004. The Company expects to continue share repurchases to acquire the remaining 4.6 million authorized shares, but the timing and number of shares purchased, if any, will depend upon market conditions and other factors.
Share Repurchase:
 
In the first six months of 2004, cash generated from operating activities and active management of working capital enabled the Company to fund the second quarter acquisitions that required $74 million, repay $16 million in short-term borrowings, increase dividend payouts by 86%, and continue its share repurchase program. We continue to search for other acquisition opportunities to reinvest cash and improve returns, but these must offer the same growth and return opportunities as our recently completed transactions.
Cash, Working Capital and Debt:
 
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding at June 30, 2004 were 53 days, a one-day improvement from the December 31, 2003 level. Ongoing active management programs maintained inventory levels at June 30, 2004 at the 7.2 months on hand achieved at March 31, 2004, a 5% reduction from the December 31, 2003 level of 7.6 months. Reported inventories declined by $17.6 million since December 31, 2003, with the majority of this decrease coming from active management programs and only $3.6 million of this reduction due to currency rate changes since December 31
st
.
 
At June 30, 2004, short-term borrowings were $50.6 million at a weighted average interest rate of 1.5% and long-term debt was $179.0 million at a weighted average interest rate of 6.5%.
 
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and chemical manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 34 countries and has over 6,000 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to the success of our Customers, Employees and Shareholders through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at www.sigma-aldrich.com
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
 
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to future performance, goals, strategic actions and initiatives and similar intentions and beliefs, including without limitation the "Highlights", "Income Analysis", "Outlook", "CEO's Statement", "Other Information-Share Repurchase" and "Other Information-Cash, Working Capital and Debt" sections contained above and other statements regarding the Company's expectations, goals, beliefs, intentions and the like regarding future sales, earnings, share repurchases and other matters. These statements involve assumptions regarding Company operations, investments and acquisitions and conditions in the markets the Company serves. Although the Company believes its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in this news release, due to, but not limited to, such factors as (1) changes in pricing and the competitive environment, (2) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, (3) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates, (4) changes in research funding, (5) uncertainties surrounding government healthcare reform, (6) government regulations applicable to the business, (7) the impact of fluctuations in interest rates, (8) the effectiveness of the Company's further implementation of its global software systems, (9) the ability to retain customers, suppliers and employees, (10) the success of research and development activities, (11) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from international operations, (12) the impact of acquisitions and success in integrating and obtaining projected results from the acquisitions, and (13) the outcome of the matters described in Note 11- Contingent Liabilities and Commitments-in the Company's Form 10-K report for the period ended December 31, 2003. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Cautionary Statement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


