FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20050119093014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 18, 2005, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (the "Company") entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with CSL Limited, CSL International Pty Ltd and CSL UK Holdings Limited (together, "CSL") to purchase from CSL all of the outstanding capital securities of JRH Biosciences Pty Ltd., CSL US Inc. and JRH Biosciences Limited (together, the "Companies"). The Companies collectively comprise CSL's "JRH Biosciences" division which (i) collects non-human sera and other animal (non-human) by-products, (ii) researches, manufactures, markets and sells cell culture enabling consumable products and services primarily for use in the development and manufacture of biopharmaceuticals and for general research and quality control purposes in diagnostic, academic, governmental and industrial applications, (iii) markets and sells animal by-products and (iv) distributes sterile disposable containers for the purpose of transporting and storing liquid solutions and research plastic wares. The purchase agreement has been unanimously approved by the Company's board of directors.
 
The purchase agreement contains representations and warranties and covenants of CSL and the Company. Losses incurred by the Company and certain affiliated parties as a result of breaches by CSL of their representations and warranties and covenants or related to certain liabilities allocated to CSL are subject to indemnification by CSL. Subject to certain exceptions, indemnification for breaches of representations and warranties are subject to a de minimis claim amount of $50,000, an aggregate deductible amount of $2,000,000 and an aggregate cap of $111,000,000. Losses incurred by CSL and certain affiliated parties as a result of breaches by the Company of its representations and warranties and covenants or related to certain liabilities allocated to the Company are subject to indemnification by the Company. Subject to certain exceptions, indemnification for breaches of representations and warranties are subject to a de minimis claim amount of $50,000.
 
The acquisition will close on the last business day of the month in which certain customary conditions set forth in the purchase agreement have been met. The conditions to closing include, without limitation, (i) expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (ii) completion of certain regulatory consents in Australia and Germany, (iii) no law or order prohibiting consummation of the acquisition, (iv) no event resulting in a material adverse effect on the JRH Biosciences business, (v) continued material accuracy of all representations and warranties of the Company and CSL set forth in the purchase agreement, (vi) performance by the Company and CSL of all of their obligations under the purchase agreement, and (vii) the execution and delivery of transition services agreements between the Company and CSL.
 
The acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of 2005. If the acquisition has not closed by May 31, 2005, either the Company or CSL may terminate the purchase agreement, provided that if the acquisition has not closed by reason of ongoing government review described in (i) or (ii) of the foregoing paragraph, this termination right shall first become exercisable on July 31, 2005.
 
The purchase price is $370,000,000, subject to adjustment for the difference at the closing date between cash and indebtedness of the Companies and between the net working capital of the Companies relative to their net working capital as of September 30, 2004. The purchase price is to be paid in cash.
 
A copy of the Company's press release, dated January 18, 2005, relating to the purchase agreement is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
On January 18, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing expected diluted earnings per share guidance for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2004, as well as, an agreement to acquire JRH Biosciences (JRH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSL Limited, expected 2005 revenues from the acquisition, and diluted earnings guidance for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (the "Press Release"). A copy of the Press Release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
In addition, the Company announced in the Press Release that a conference call would be held on January 19, 2005, to discuss its financial and operating future expectations. A slide presentation for use in conjunction with this conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Within the presentation the Company has presented certain financial information that has not been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("Non-GAAP Measures"). The Company has presented Non-GAAP Measures for (i) currency adjusted diluted net income per share growth; (ii) currency adjusted sales growth; and (iii) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"). The most directly comparable GAAP measures are presented more directly before such Non-GAAP measures in the attached investor presentation and a reconciliation is included either with those measures or elsewhere in the slide presentation.
 
The Company defines currency adjusted diluted net income per share and currency adjusted sales growth as diluted net income per share and sales growth, respectively, each computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), adjusted for foreign currency exchange rates. With over 50% of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company uses currency adjusted growth for both diluted net income per share and sales, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's controllable local currency performance. The Company defines EBITDA as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which is adjusted from JRH's GAAP results to exclude certain items. These non-GAAP adjustments are provided to enhance the investor's overall understanding of JRH's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. The Company believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain items that the Company believes are not indicative of JRH's core liquidity. The non-GAAP measures are included to provide the Company and its investors with an alternative method for assessing the liquidity in a manner that is focused on the performance of ongoing operations and to provide a more consistent basis for comparison between quarters. For example, EBITDA can be used to measure a company's ability to service debt, fund capital expenditures and expand its business. Further, these non-GAAP results are one of the primary indicators that the Company uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. In addition, since the Company has historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community, the Company believes the inclusion of non-GAAP numbers provide consistency in financial reporting. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
This information should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of liquidity as promulgated under GAAP, nor should it be considered as an indicator of our overall financial performance. Investors should recognize these measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other registrants and that the measures presented are not a substitute or alternatives for measures of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP, such as net income as a measure of operating results or cash flows as a measure of liquidity.
 
The slide presentation for use in conjunction with the Company's conference call will be posted to the Company's website located at http://ir.sigmaaldrich.com, although the Company reserves the right to discontinue its availability at any time.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of such section, nor shall such information or exhibits be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 19, 2005
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
January 18, 2005
 
 
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (Nasdaq: SIAL) announced today that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire the JRH Biosciences division (JRH) of CSL Limited for $370 million in cash, subject to normal closing adjustments. JRH is a leading global supplier of cell culture and sera products to the biopharmaceutical industry with 2004 sales of approximately $150 million, which are expected to increase by approximately 10% in 2005. As much as ten months of JRH's operating results will be added to Sigma-Aldrich's performance in 2005 depending on the closing date for the transaction.
 
"The acquisition of JRH should benefit both customers and shareholders," said David Harvey, Sigma-Aldrich's Chairman and CEO. "It strengthens Sigma-Aldrich's ability to meet customers' needs in supplying cell culture products to the fast growing biopharmaceutical production market and enhances our overall position in the broad life science research market. With JRH's history of profitable sales growth, its addition is expected to help us meet or exceed our long-term growth and return goals."
 
JRH is headquartered in Lenexa, Kansas, and has major manufacturing facilities in the United States, Europe and Australia and serum collection and processing centers in the United States and Australia. The company's product lines include sera, cell culture media used in the production of therapeutic proteins, reagent growth factors and biological material containers. JRH has approximately 400 employees.
 
"This acquisition is a true complement to our existing cell culture business," said Frank Wicks, President, SAFC. "JRH and its employees have built a vibrant business serving primarily biopharmaceutical manufacturing customers. Their addition will provide Sigma-Aldrich with an assured supply of sera to better serve both our research and industrial customers. We see many opportunities to achieve future growth in sales and profits, including increased utilization of our existing manufacturing facilities and better leverage of our R&D capabilities."
 
Management reaffirmed its 2004 full-year estimate of diluted earnings per share of $3.30 to $3.35. For 2005, diluted earnings per share are expected to be $3.45 to $3.55, including dilution from the acquisition of approximately $.10 per share due largely to a charge of approximately $.18 per share to increase acquired inventory to its fair value. This estimated range also assumes that exchange rates remain at December 31, 2004 levels throughout 2005 and a 2005 effective tax rate of approximately 29%. The acquisition is expected to be accretive to earnings after 2005 and to make a positive contribution to cash flow in 2005 and after.
 
Sigma-Aldrich expects to fund the acquisition with a combination of existing cash, short-term debt and three-year term debt. The company expects to remain within its targeted debt to capital ratio of 30-35% after the transaction.
 
The transaction has been approved by the boards of directors of both companies and, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary terms and conditions, is expected to close in the first quarter of 2005.
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. acted as financial advisor to Sigma-Aldrich for this transaction.
 
A conference call and slide webcast will be held on Wednesday, January 19, 2005, at 10:00 am CT to review the pending acquisition, related financial results and other matters. Interested parties may listen to the live conference over the Internet available at http://ir.sigmaaldrich.com . Users can click the webcast icon to access this file. For the webcast on http://ir.sigmaaldrich.com users will need to have Media Player software, which can be downloaded at http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/9series/player.aspx.
 
For those unable to participate in the live conference, a replay will be available from 12:30pm CT on January 19th until 12:30 pm CT on January 25th by calling 1-800-642-1687 (USA) and/or 706-645-9291 (International). The access code is 3506352.
 
OTHER INFORMATION:
 
The Company regularly uses certain non-GAAP financial measures to supplement its GAAP disclosures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Company's industry.
:
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
With over 50% of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's controllable, local currency performance. While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur during 2005 to applicable rates of exchange and are thus unable to provide GAAP growth rates for the year 2005 as required by Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our projected results and related growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies.
 
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and chemical manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 34 countries and has over 6,000 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to the success of our Customers, Employees and Shareholders through leadership in and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at www.sigma-aldrich.com
:
About Sigma-Aldrich
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
,
High Technology
Service
 
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to future performance, goals, strategic actions and initiatives and similar intentions and beliefs, and other statements regarding the Company's expectations, goals, beliefs, intentions and the like regarding future sales, earnings per share and other matters. These statements involve assumptions regarding Company and JRH operations, investments and acquisitions and conditions in the markets the Company and JRH serve. Although the Company believes its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in this news release, due to, but not limited to, such factors as (1) changes in pricing and the competitive environment, (2) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, (3) other changes in the business environment in which the Company and JRH operate, (4) changes in research funding, (5) uncertainties surrounding government healthcare reform, (6) government regulations applicable to the business, (7) the impact of fluctuations in interest rates, (8) the effectiveness of the Company's further implementation of its global software systems, (9) the ability to retain customers, suppliers and employees, (10) the success of research and development activities, (11) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations, (12) the impact of acquisitions and success in integrating and obtaining projected results from the acquisitions, including JRH, (13) the outcome of the matters described in Note 11- Contingent Liabilities and Commitments-in the Company's Form 10-K report for the period ended December 31, 2003 and (14) the preliminary nature of the 2004 diluted earnings per share estimate. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
:
Cautionary Statement
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation
Leveraging Life Science and High Technology For Growth
1
 
Cautionary Statements
Our presentation today will include forward looking statements about the Company's future performance, goals, strategic actions and initiatives and similar expectations, intentions and beliefs, including expectations for sales and earnings growth, cash flow, and debt outstanding assumptions regarding Company and JRH operations, investments and acquisitions and conditions in the markets the Company and JRH serve. While we believe that these expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors and we can give no assurance that the goals will be achieved. Actual results may differ materially from those stated or implied during this meeting or contained in other Company communications due to, but not limited to, such factors as (1) changes in pricing and the competitive environment, (2) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, (3) other changes in the business environment in which the Company and JRH operate, (4) changes in research funding, (5) uncertainties surrounding government healthcare reform, (6) government regulations applicable to the business, (7) the impact of fluctuations in interest rates, (8) the effectiveness of the Company's further implementation of its global software systems, (9) the ability to retain customers, suppliers and employees, (10) the success of research and development activities, (11) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations, (12) the impact of acquisitions and success in integrating and obtaining projected results from the acquisitions, including JRH, (13) the outcome of the matters described in Note 11  Contingent Liabilities and Commitments  in the Company's Form 10-K report for the period ended December 31, 2003 and (14) the preliminary nature of the 2004 diluted earnings per share estimate. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update the matters covered in this presentation.
Due to the significance of sales denominated in international currencies, management uses currency-adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to assist investors in judging the Company's controllable, local currency performance. While able to report historical currency impacts, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur in applicable rates of exchange during 2005 and thereafter. Thus, we are unable to provide GAAP growth rates for such future periods as required by Regulation G adopted by the SEC. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies.
2
 
Forecast  2004
Growth
Sales ($1.4 billion)
Reported >8 %
Currency Benefit 5 %
Currency Adjusted - Total 3 %
- Acquisitions 1 %
- Internal 2 %
EPS ($3.30 - $3.35/share)
Reported 23 - 25 %
Currency Benefit 14 - 14 %
Currency Adjusted 9 - 11 %
Return On Equity >21 %
Large Currency Advantage In Sales & EPS
3
 
Acquisition Criteria
Sales & Profit Growth >10%
Life Science And/Or High Technology Emphasis
Build, Not Destroy, Shareholder Value
2% Sales Growth Target
4
 
2004 Acquisitions  Ultrafine and Tetrionics
Add 1% Each Year To Sales Growth In Years 1 & 2
Grow 10%
Strong Capabilities For Pharmaceutical Industry
Strong Development Resources
Strategic Technical Competency
Capabilities To Serve Pharma Customers
5
 
Introducing SAFC
Develop & Communicate A New Brand Image
Highlight Our Manufacturing Capabilities
Scale-Up
Custom
cGMP
Incorporate Our Acquisitions
Move From Top 25 To Top 10 FC Company
Achieve 12% Growth Goal
New Identity For Fine Chemicals
6
 
JRH BioSciences - Background
Leading Supplier Of Cell Culture Products To Biopharmaceutical Manufacturers
Entered Cell Culture Media Market In 1971
Acquired By CSL Limited In 1994
Strong Historical Growth Rates (Sales & Profits)
Strong Customer Base, Primary Supplier For Approved Pharmaceutical Products
Strong Customer Focus
7
 
JRH BioSciences
#2 Overall In Cell Culture Market ($150M), Strong #2 Industrial ($135M), #5 Research ($15M)
Locations In U.S., U.K. And Australia
High Quality Operations, Facilities Pushing Capacity, Expanding Media Production
Second Entrant Into Industrial Market
Primary Processor Of Serum
Research Business Not A Focus
Strong Industrial Customer Base & Pipeline
Very Successful In Industrial Cell Culture Sector
8
 
Sigma-Aldrich
#4 Overall In Cell Culture Market ($75M), #5 Industrial ($15M), #3 Research ($60M)
Underutilized "State-Of-The-Art" Industrial Facilities
Late Entrant To Industrial Market
Strong R&D Capabilities
Research Business Driven By Reagents, Not Media
Limited Penetration, Customers And Pipeline In Industrial Market
"Locked Out" Of Industrial Cell Culture Sector
9
 
JRH + Sigma-Aldrich $225 Million
#2 Overall To Invitrogen
#1 In Industrial Market - $150M
#2 In Research Market - $75M
Leverage Sigma-Aldrich R&D
Leverage Sigma-Aldrich Facilities
Share Best Practices
Challenging The Cell Culture Market Leader
10
 
Proposed Acquisition of JRH BioSciences
Acquisition Cost: $370 million (1)
Targeted Close: Dependent on regulatory approval. Expected on or before 3/31.
Expected Annual Sales - 2005: $165 million
Expected EBITDA - 2005: $37 million (2)
Expected Impact On EPS
- 2005 (10 months) $(0.10) (3)
- 2006 $0.16 (3)
Expected Operating Cash Flow
- 2005 (10 months) $17 million
- 2006 $23 million
(1) Excludes any cash and/or debt of JRH Biosciences. Subject to adjustment for working capital changes.
(2) The JRH net loss for 2005 of $7 million is reconciled to EBITDA of $37 million by adding back the following items: Income Taxes ($4 million); Interest Expense ($12 million); Depreciation & Amortization ($11 million); and Inventory Revaluation ($17 million)
(3) Includes inventory write-up impact of $0.18 per share and $.04 per share in 2005 and 2006, respectively.
Assumes closing of JRH acquisition on March 1, 2005.
11
 
JRH Acquisition Synergies
Improvement In COGS By Utilizing New Technologies & Our Facilities
Modest SG&A Consolidation
Increased Sigma-Aldrich Research Serum Sales Due To Availability
Pull-Through Sales Of Our Other Products
Synergies Important But Not Deal Determining
12
 
JRH Acquisition - Customer
Benefits
Makes Sigma-Aldrich A Leading And Complete Supplier To Biopharmaceutical Customers (Research To Industrial Capabilities)
Assured Supply Of Sera At Competitive Prices
Enhanced Cell Culture Production Capabilities
World Class R&D Capabilities
13
 
JRH Acquisition  Shareholder Benefits
Investment In Future Growth
Acquisition Of A Quality Company That Is A Leader In Its Field
Increased Sales Due To Serum Availability
Pull Through Sales Of Other Products
Industrial Market Growth Exceeds Research Market
Accretive to EPS After Year 1
Adds To Cash Flow
Reinvests Cash At Desired Return Level
Low Integration Risk
Leverage Sigma-Aldrich Facility Capacity
Still No Dominant Customer
14
 
2005 Projections With JRH BioSciences
Growth
Sales ($1.650 - 1.700 bil)
Reported 18 - 21 %
Currency Benefit 6 - 6 %
Currency Adjusted 12 - 15 %
EPS ($3.45 - 3.55) 5 - 8 %
Return On Equity 20 %
Key Assumptions
12/31/04 FX Rates
Effective Tax Rate Of 29%
Repurchase Of 1.5 Million Shares
JRH Closing On March 1, 2005
15
 
2005 Debt Projections ($'s In Millions)
WithoutAcquisition With JRH
Projected Debt @ 12/31/05
- Private Placement Due Sept. 2010 $100 $100
- Private Placement Due Nov. 2006 75 75
- New 3 Year Term Debt Due Feb. 2008  150
- Short-Term Debt 95 200
- Other 3 3
TOTAL $273 $528
Debt To Total Capitalization 18.0% 28.0%
16
 
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation
Future Based On
Leveraging Life Science and High Technology For Growth
17


