FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20051110162431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On November 8, 2005, at a meeting held by the Board of Directors, Avi M. Nash, head of Avi Nash LLC, a management consulting firm, was elected to his first term as a Director of the Company. Prior to launching his firm in 2003, Mr. Nash was with Goldman Sachs, where he started in 1987. During his time with Goldman Sachs, Mr. Nash held the positions of Vice President (1989-1996), Managing Director (1996-1998) and Partner (1998-2002).
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 10, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
ST. LOUIS, November 8, 2005 - At a meeting held today, the Board of Directors of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation elected Avi M. Nash as a Director of the Company.
 
Mr. Nash (age 52) heads a management consulting firm, Avi Nash LLC, that works with global chemical industry leaders in mergers and acquisitions, capital market transactions and other strategic matters. Prior to launching his firm in 2003, he was a partner at Goldman Sachs and led that firm's investment research in Global Chemicals. Previously he worked at Booz, Allen & Hamilton and UOP Inc.
 
In announcing the election, David Harvey, Chairman and CEO of Sigma-Aldrich, said "We are extremely pleased to have Avi Nash join our Board. His broad insights in the chemical sector and related industries will help Sigma-Aldrich in its efforts to enhance an already strong leadership position in Life Science and High Technology."
 
Sigma-Aldrich (NASDAQ: is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 35 countries and has over 6,800 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating Customers' success through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at .
About Sigma-Aldrich:
SIAL)
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com


