FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20050712125128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On July 11, 2005, Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing a new organization to accelerate customers' success and growth. A copy of this press release is furnished with this report as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 12, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
July 11, 2005
 
 
Sigma-Aldrich announced today a new organization consisting of four customer-centric business units, each headed by a President reporting to the Company's President & COO, intended to further enhance its ability to serve its diverse base of more than sixty thousand commercial accounts comprising one million individual customers worldwide and the potential for above market growth rates.
 
After an extensive six month study which included interviews with nearly 650 customers around the globe, the Company is reorganizing its two existing life science and high technology Research businesses  and  into three units, each with its own distinctive competencies to meet the needs of carefully defined customer segments:
Scientific Research
Biotechnology
 
 
 
 
The Company's final business   which stands separate from these Research units and represents 25% of the Company's current sales after the recent acquisition of JRH Biosciences, offers fine chemical products and flexible service solutions for customers in the three key industrial market segments of Pharma, Biosciences and Hi-Tech. will continue to be led by Frank Wicks, 52, who has served as the unit's President since January 2003.
SAFC
SAFC
 
Both Cottier and Yousaf will join Julien, Wicks, Chairman & CEO David Harvey, 66, President & COO Jai Nagarkatti, 58, and Chief Administrative Officer & CFO Michael Hogan, 52, as members of the Company's Executive Management Group.
 
While these organizational changes are effective immediately, the Company plans to continue to report its sales results for its three existing , and business units
Scientific Research
Biotechnology
SAFC
 
through 2005 and begin reporting under the new four-unit structure in 2006. Further details regarding the Company's goals, high-level strategies and growth initiatives for this new organization will be shared at its annual business review for shareholders and analysts on Tuesday, August 16, 2005 at 8:30 a.m. (Central Daylight Time). Information provided at that session will be simultaneously web cast over the Sigma-Aldrich website (). Details about how to access this web cast will be shared in a separate release. A replay will be available on the Company's web site until Tuesday, August 23, 2005.
www.sigma-aldrich.com
 
Commenting on the new organization, President & COO Jai Nagarkatti said: "We're excited about our new organization and the opportunities its sharpened focus on meeting customers' needs is expected to provide for driving the potential for even better and more profitable growth. This latest change in our evolution towards a truly customer-centric company builds on the success of our past initiatives. Resting firmly on the base of historically profitable operations and a strong balance sheet, we believe this latest change and the strategies that support it should enable us to simultaneously excel in serving our customers, deliver 10% top and bottom line growth long-term for our shareholders and provide exciting and challenging opportunities for our employees."
 
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 35 countries and has over 6,800 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating Customers' success through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com
 
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to future performance, goals, strategic actions and initiatives and similar intentions and beliefs. Although the Company believes its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in this news release, due to, but not limited to, such factors as (1) changes in pricing and the competitive environment, (2) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, (3) the ability to reinvest cash generated from operations in acquisitions and the impact of and success in integrating and obtaining projected results from such acquisitions, (4) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates, (5) changes in research funding, (6) uncertainties surrounding government healthcare reform, (7) government regulations applicable to the business, (8) the impact of fluctuations in interest rates, (9) the effectiveness of the Company's further implementation of its global software systems and electronic ordering, (10) the ability to retain customers, suppliers and employees, (11) the success of research and development activities, and (12) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Cautionary Statement:
 


