FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20050504151727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On May 2, 2005, the Corporate Governance Committee, in order to remain at a competitive level, set the Director's Compensation annual retainer and meeting fees for 2005-2006, effective July 1, 2005. The annual retainer will be $40,000 and the meeting fees will be as follows:
 
 
Participation via conference call reduces the meeting fees by 50%.
 
In addition to the annual retainer and meeting fees the Directors received 5,000 stock options.
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On May 3, 2005, at the annual shareholders meeting, the following directors were re-elected: Nina V. Fedoroff, David R. Harvey, W. Lee McCollum, William C. O'Neil, Jr., J. Pedro Reinhard, D. Dean Spatz and Barrett A. Toan. Timothy R. G. Sear, Chairman of Alcon, Inc., was elected to his first term as a Director. Jerome W. Sandweiss retired as a Director after serving 30 years.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On May 3, 2005, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation issued a press release announcing the Company's quarterly dividend and the election of the Company's directors. A copy of this press release is furnished with this report as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 4, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
May 3, 2005
 
SIGMA-ALDRICH DIRECTORS ELECTED AND QUARTERLY DIVIDEND DECLARED
 
At the annual shareholders meeting held today in St. Louis, the following directors were re-elected: Nina V. Fedoroff, David R. Harvey, W. Lee McCollum, William C. O'Neil, Jr., J. Pedro Reinhard, D. Dean Spatz and Barrett A. Toan. Timothy R. G. Sear, Chairman of Alcon, Inc., was elected to his first term as a Director. Jerome W. Sandweiss retired as a Director after serving for 30 years. Shareholders also ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accountant for 2005.
 
At the Board of Directors meeting held today, the Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.19 per share. The dividend is payable on June 15, 2005 to shareholders of record on June 1, 2005.
 
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and chemical manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 34 countries and has over 6,000 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to the success of our Customers, Employees and Shareholders through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com


