FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20061116094906.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 14, 2006, Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing that Steven M. Paul was elected as a Director of the Company. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d)
Exhibits
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 14, 2006
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
November 14, 2006
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI  At a meeting held today, the Board of Directors of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation elected Steven M. Paul, M.D. as a Director of the Company.
Dr. Paul (age 56) is Executive Vice President for Science and Technology and President of the Lilly Research Laboratories of Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY), a $15 billion pharmaceutical company based in Indianapolis, Indiana.
Prior to assuming his current position, Dr. Paul served as Scientific Director of the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Maryland.
In announcing the election, David Harvey, Chairman of Sigma-Aldrich, said, "We are extremely pleased to have Steven Paul join our Board. His scientific background and broad business insights will help Sigma-Aldrich in its efforts to enhance an already strong leadership position in Life Science and High Technology."
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 35 countries and has 7,200 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating Customers' success through leadership in and. For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at www.sigma-aldrich.com.
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science, High Technology
Service


