FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20060920104351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 19, 2006 Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing that it had reached a settlement with Enzo Biochem, Inc., Enzo Life Sciences, and Yale University. The settlement resolves all issues regarding the lawsuit filed on October 23, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against Sigma-Aldrich. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 20, 2006
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
September 19, 2006
St. Louis, MO  Sigma-Aldrich Corporation and named subsidiaries announced today that it has reached a settlement with Enzo Biochem, Inc., Enzo Life Sciences, and Yale University. The settlement between the parties and the stipulation and order of dismissal with prejudice of all claims and defenses brought or raised by any party in the action was approved by Judge John E. Sprizzo last week. The settlement resolves all issues regarding the lawsuit filed on October 23, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against Sigma-Aldrich.
Terms of the settlement were not disclosed. The settlement will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation.
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals, and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 35 countries and has 7,200 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating our Customers' success through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at .
:
About Sigma-Aldrich
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com


