FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20060504164515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On May 2, 2006 Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release indicating the shareholders approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The purpose of this 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan is to motivate key personnel to produce a superior return to the shareholders of the Company by offering such individuals an opportunity to realize stock appreciation, by facilitating stock ownership and by rewarding them for achieving a high level of corporate performance. The Plan is also intended to facilitate recruiting and retaining key personnel of outstanding ability. The Plan is amended and restated effective for Awards granted on or after January 1, 2006. Awards granted prior to January 1, 2006 shall be governed by the terms of the Plan as in effect prior to this restatement. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 2, 2006 Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release indicating the shareholders approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
The following Exhibits are file with this Current Report on From 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 4, 2006
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
May 2, 2006
At the annual shareholders meeting held today in St. Louis, the following directors were re-elected: Nina V. Fedoroff, David R. Harvey, W. Lee McCollum, Jai P. Nagarkatti, Avi M. Nash, William C. O'Neil, Jr., J. Pedro Reinhard, Timothy R. G. Sear, D. Dean Spatz and Barrett A. Toan. Shareholders also ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accountant for 2006 and approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
At the Board of Directors meeting held today, the Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.21 per share. The dividend is payable on June 15, 2006 to shareholders of record on June 1, 2006.
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading Life Science and High Technology company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 35 countries and has 7,000 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating our Customers' success through leadership in Life Science, High Technology and Service. For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at
About Sigma-Aldrich:
www.sigma-aldrich.com


