FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20060816161550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 15, 2006, Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing that Rich Keffer was appointed as the Company's Corporate Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary effective August 28, 2006. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 15, 2006
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
August 15, 2006
ST. LOUIS, MO - Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (NASDAQ: SIAL) is pleased to announce Rich Keffer, 51, has been named Corporate Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary, effective August 28, 2006. In his new role, Keffer will join the company's executive management team and manage its legal services and corporate governance processes. He will report to Jai Nagarkatti, President & CEO.
Keffer, an experienced General Counsel, brings twenty-five years of corporate legal experience to Sigma-Aldrich from large global public companies in the consumer products, chemical and pharmaceutical industries. His most recent General Counsel experience was with D&K Healthcare, which was acquired by McKesson in 2005.
Keffer earned his Juris Doctorate from Washington University School of Law and a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Greenville College. Rich, his wife Judy, and family reside in St. Louis.
"We're excited to welcome Rich to Sigma-Aldrich," said Jai Nagarkatti, President & CEO. "His successful public company General Counsel experience will enhance overall corporate governance practices and help us better manage legal services in our growing global businesses. And, his tremendous depth of experience in mergers and acquisitions will help us achieve our growth plans as we continue to build sustainable shareholder value."
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 35 countries and has 7,200 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating Customers' success through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com


