FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20060608131534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Amendment to the Employment Agreement with Dr. Harvey
On May 19, 2006, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), executed an amendment ("Amendment") to the original employment agreement ("Agreement") previously entered into with David R. Harvey ("Chairman") effective as of January 1, 2006. The Amendment extended the term of the Chairman's employment for a one-year term beginning on the date of the first Annual General Meeting following January 1, 2006 and terminating on the second Annual General Meeting following January 1, 2006. All other terms and conditions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect during this one-year extension. Under the Agreement, Dr. Harvey will serve as the Company's Chairman or in any other capacity, as determined by the Board of Directors. The original employment agreement was filed in a Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 16, 2006, incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following Exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
WHEREAS, the Sigma-Aldrich Corporation ("Company") and David Harvey ("Chairman") previously entered into an employment agreement ("Agreement") effective as of January 1, 2006; and
WHEREAS, the Company and the Chairman desire to extend the Term of that Agreement for an additional year in accordance with Section 2.4 of the Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the Company and Chairman hereby agree to amend the Agreement in accordance with Section 2.4 thereof, as follows:
The Term is extended by the parties pursuant to this written agreement for an additional one-year period beginning on the date of the first Annual General Meeting following January 1, 2006 and terminating on the second Annual General Meeting following January 1, 2006. All other terms and conditions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect during this one-year extension. The Term may be further extended by the parties by written agreement for successive additional one-year periods in accordance with Section 2.4.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment to the Agreement this 19th day of May, 2006.
 


