FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20061213171452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 11, 2006, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation amended its $150 million revolving credit facility established in February 2005 by exercising the $150 million accordion feature of the facility. The revised $300 million revolving credit facility will mature on December 11, 2011. The facility will provide back-up liquidity for the commercial paper program and be used for general corporate purposes. Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Wachovia Bank, N.A. served as co-arrangers for the eight-bank syndicate participating in this facility. The agreement includes a requirement that Consolidated Debt not exceed 25% of Consolidated Net Worth. Other covenants of the original credit agreement were not materially amended. The interest rates under the facility are based on LIBOR. The amendment includes standard financial covenants and other customary terms and conditions for an agreement of this type.
This press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1. The Note Purchase Agreement is filed at Exhibit 10.1.
 
See Item 1.01 above.
 
(d)
Exhibits
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 13, 2006
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (the "") is made as of December 11, 2006 (the ""), by and among SIGMA-ALDRICH CORPORATION (the ""), the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereof (the "") and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, in its capacity as administrative agent (the "") under that certain Credit Agreement dated as of February 23, 2005 by and among the Borrower, the financial institutions party thereto and the Administrative Agent (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified as of the date hereof, the ""). Defined terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning given to them in the Credit Agreement.
Amendment
Effective Date
Borrower
Lenders
Administrative Agent
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower has requested that the aggregate Revolving Commitments be increased from $150,000,000 to $300,000,000;
Section 2.08
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, each Increasing Lender and any Assuming Lender have agreed to a Revolving Commitment Increase under the Credit Agreement to increase the aggregate Revolving Commitments to $300,000,000, and in connection therewith each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender has agreed to extend a Revolving Commitment in the amount set forth on Annex I hereto (which Annex I shall amend and restate of the Credit Agreement), in each case, on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
Schedule 1.01
WHEREAS, immediately after giving effect to the Revolving Commitment Increase described herein, the Borrower has requested that the Administrative Agent and the Lenders amend the Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (after giving effect to the Revolving Commitment Increase described herein) have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth above, the terms and conditions contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto have agreed to the following amendments to the Credit Agreement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means December 11, 2006.
First Amendment Effective Date
 
 
Section 2.09 .
Mandatory Termination of Commitments; Extension of Commitments
(a) The Revolving Commitments shall terminate on the Revolving Loan Termination Date, and any Revolving Loans then outstanding (together with accrued interest thereon) shall be due and payable on such date.
(b)(i) The Borrower may request a one-year extension of the Revolving Loan Termination Date by submitting a written request for an extension to the Administrative Agent (an "") no earlier than 90 days but not later than 45 days prior to the first and/or second anniversary of the First Amendment Effective Date (such anniversary being an ""). Promptly upon receipt of an Extension Request, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender with a Revolving Commitment thereof and shall request each such Lender to approve the Extension Request. Each Lender approving the Extension Request shall deliver its written consent no earlier than 30 days but no later than 20 days prior to such Anniversary Date (it being understood and agreed that such consent may be given or withheld in such Lender's sole and absolute discretion). If any Lender with a Revolving Commitment shall fail to notify the Administrative Agent in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Revolving Loan Termination Date by the 20th day prior to such Anniversary Date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender (as defined below) with respect to such request. The election of any Lender to agree to an Extension Request shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree. The Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Borrower written notification of the Lenders' decisions no later than 15 days prior to such Anniversary Date.
Extension Request
Anniversary Date
(ii) If all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with Section 2.09(b)(i), the Revolving Loan Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at such next Anniversary Date (the ""), be extended for one calendar year; provided that no such extension shall become effective under this sentence unless, (i) on the applicable Extension Date, (x), no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (y) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained
Extension Date
 
in this Agreement shall be true in all material respects on and as of such Extension Date and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated such date and executed by the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower and (ii) the Administrative Agent shall have received documents consistent with those delivered on the First Amendment Effective Date as to the corporate power and authority of the Borrower to borrow hereunder after giving effect to such extension. If Lenders holding more than 50% of the Revolving Commitments, but less than all of the Lenders with Revolving Commitments, consent in writing to any such request in accordance with Section 2.09(b)(i), unless the Borrower shall deliver written notice to the Administrative Agent terminating such requested extension not less than ten Business Days prior to the proposed Extension Date (it being understood and agreed that any Extension Request issued in connection with any such terminated extension shall constitute an Extension Request for purposes of determining the then remaining available number of Extension Requests under Section 2.09(b)(i)), the Revolving Loan Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a "") but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a ""). To the extent that the Revolving Loan Termination Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.09(b) and the Revolving Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with Section 2.09(b)(iii) on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Revolving Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Revolving Loan Termination Date without any further notice or other action by the Borrower, such Lender or any other Person and the Borrower shall pay all Revolving Loans, together with accrued but unpaid interest thereon, and all other amounts owing under this Agreement to such Non-Consenting Lender on such unextended Revolving Loan Termination Date; provided that such Non-Consenting Lender shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of, and subject to, those provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents which survive payment of the Loans and other obligations of the Borrower hereunder and termination of the applicable agreement. It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Borrower for any requested extension of the Revolving Loan Termination Date.
Consenting Lender
Non-Consenting Lender
(iii) If less than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to Section 2.09(b)(i), the Borrower may arrange for one or more Persons (who may be Consenting Lenders) acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Banks (each an "") (x) to assume, effective as of the Extension Date or such other date as may be agreed among the Borrower, the Non-Consenting Lender, such Extension Assuming Lender and the Administrative Agent, any Non-Consenting Lender's Revolving Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender and (y) to accept, effective as of the Extension Date or such later date as any Extension Assuming Lender executes and delivers an
Extension Assuming Lender
 
Assignment and Assumption Agreement, the Revolving Loan Termination Date applicable to Consenting Lenders; provided, however, that the amount of the Revolving Commitment of any such Extension Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $5,000,000 unless the amount of the Revolving Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than $5,000,000, in which case such Extension Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; and provided further that:
 
 
 
provided further that such Non-Consenting Lender shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of, and subject to, those provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents which survive payment of the Revolving Loans and other obligations of the Borrower hereunder and termination of the applicable agreement. At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Extension Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption Agreement, duly executed by such Extension Assuming Lender, such Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (acting reasonably) as to the increase in the amount of its Revolving Commitment and (C) each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.09(b) shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent any Revolving Note held by such Non-Consenting Lender. Upon the payment of all amounts referred to in clauses (1), (2) and (3) of this Section 2.09(b)(iii), each such Extension Assuming Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Credit Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder arising after the Extension Date shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
 
(iv) If Lenders holding more than 50% of the Revolving Commitments (after giving effect to any assignments pursuant to Section 2.09(b)(iii)) consent in a writing delivered to the Administrative Agent to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assignment and Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Borrower, and, so long as (i) on the Extension Date, (x), no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (y) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in this Agreement shall be true in all material respects on and as of such Extension Date and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated such date and executed by the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower and (ii) the Administrative Agent shall have received documents consistent with those delivered on the Effective Date as to the corporate power and authority of the Borrower to borrow hereunder after giving effect to such extension, the Revolving Loan Termination Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional one-year period as described in Section 2.09(b)(ii), and all references in this Agreement, and in any Revolving Notes to the "Revolving Loan Termination Date" shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each Extension Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Revolving Loan Termination Date as so extended. Promptly following each Extension Date, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Extension Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Revolving Loan Termination Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such Extension Assuming Lender.
 
Section 5.06 . Only so long as the following covenant shall also be effective pursuant to any other instrument or agreement to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower shall be party: The Borrower will not, at any time, permit Consolidated Net Worth to be less than $750,000,000.
Consolidated Net Worth
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
S P A N. 1
IGNATURE
AGE
TO
MENDMENT
O
 
S P A N. 1
IGNATURE
AGE
TO
MENDMENT
O
 
S P A N. 1
IGNATURE
AGE
TO
MENDMENT
O
ANNEX I
 
 
ANNEX II
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
December 11, 2006
SIGMA-ALDRICH (NASDAQ:SIAL) AMENDS CREDIT FACILITY
 Sigma-Aldrich announced today that it has amended the terms of its $150 million revolving credit facility established in February 2005 by exercising the $150 million accordion feature of the facility. The revised $300 million revolving credit facility will mature on December 11, 2011. The facility will provide back-up liquidity for the commercial paper program and be used for general corporate purposes.
ST. LOUIS, MO
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Wachovia Bank, N.A. served as co-arrangers for the eight-bank syndicate participating in this facility. Wells Fargo Bank, National Association acted as the administrative agent.
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 35 countries and has 7,200 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating Customers' success through leadership in and. For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at www.sigma-aldrich.com.
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science, High Technology
Service


