FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20070809125543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On August 6, 2007, Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing that Dr. Nina Fedoroff had resigned as a Director of the Company. The resignation was effective on August 6, 2007, as a result of Dr. Fedoroff's appointment to the position of Science and Technology Adviser to the U.S. Secretary of State. In order to accept the appointment, Dr. Fedoroff was required to resign her Director role with Sigma-Aldrich Corporation. Dr. Fedoroff was serving on the Company's Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. Dr. Fedoroff's letter of resignation to the Company is furnished as Exhibit 17.1. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 9, 2007
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 17.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
August 6, 2007
 
 
 
 
David R. Harvey
Chairman of the Board
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation
3050 Spruce Street
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear David:
I hereby resign as a Director and Member of the Corporate Governance Committee of Sigma-Aldrich Corporate, effective August 6, 2007.
Sincerely,
Nina Fedoroff
Willaman Professor of Life Sciences
Evan Pugh Professor
 
 
An Equal Opportunity University

Exhibit 99.1
From: David R. Harvey, Chairman
August 6, 2007
ST. LOUIS, MO U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has named Nina V. Fedoroff, a long-time member of the Board of Directors of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, to be her new Science and Technology Adviser. She was nominated for the position by the National Academy of Sciences. To accept the appointment, Fedoroff resigned as a Director of Sigma-Aldrich. Fedoroff is the Verne M. Willaman Chair in Life Sciences and an Evan Pugh Professor at Penn State University. During her three-year term as Science and Technology Adviser, she will be on leave from Penn State.
In the position of Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary, Fedoroff will serve as the Department of State's chief scientist and principal liaison with the national and international scientific and engineering communities. Fedoroff is the third person to hold this position since its establishment in 2000. She will be responsible for enhancing science and technology literacy and capacity at the State Department, increasing the number of scientists and engineers working in Washington and in missions abroad, strengthening and building bridges to the scientific and engineering communities, and providing advice on current and emerging science and technology issues as they impact foreign policy.
In addition to serving on the Sigma-Aldrich Board since 1996, she served as a member of the National Science Board. She is also a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi honorary societies. Fedoroff has received numerous awards and honors in the field of science, recently receiving the 2006 National Medal of Science from President George W. Bush.
David R. Harvey, Chairman, said, "We congratulate Dr. Fedoroff on this prestigious appointment and wish her well in this new position. We also thank her for her years of service to Sigma-Aldrich. She has been a key contributor to our Company with her wealth of scientific knowledge and research experience".
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 36 countries and has 7,700 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating Customers' success through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com


