FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20070314161504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On March 13, 2007, certain subsidiaries of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation established a new $200 million multi-currency senior revolving credit facility in Europe. The new $200 million credit facility will mature on March 13, 2014. The multi-currency revolving credit facility will be used for general purposes, including any acquisitions, by the Company's European operations. Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. served as co-lead arrangers and joint bookrunners for the seven-bank syndicate participating in this facility. The agreement includes a requirement that the Capitalization Ratio not exceed 0.55 to 1.0. Additionally, Consolidated Net Worth must not be less than $750 million. The interest rates under the facility are based on LIBOR, EURIBOR and other standard financial market indexes. The credit facility includes standard financial covenants and other customary terms and conditions for an agreement of this type.
This press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1. The Credit Facility Agreement is filed at Exhibit 10.1.
 
See Item 1.01 above.
 
(d)
Exhibits
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 14, 2007
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
is dated 13 March 2007 and made between:
THIS AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
In this Agreement:
"" means a document substantially in the form set out in Schedule 6 ().
Accession Letter
Form of Accession Letter
"" means a company which becomes an Additional Borrower in accordance with Clause 25 ().
Additional Borrower
Changes to the Obligors
"" has the meaning given to it in Schedule 4 ().
Additional Cost Rate
Mandatory Cost formulae
"" means a company which becomes an Additional Guarantor in accordance with Clause 25 ().
Additional Guarantor
Changes to the Obligors
"" means an Additional Borrower or an Additional Guarantor.
Additional Obligor
"" means, in relation to any person, a Subsidiary of that person or a Holding Company of that person or any other Subsidiary of that Holding Company.
Affiliate
"" means an authorisation, consent, approval, resolution, licence, exemption, filing, notarisation or registration.
Authorisation
"" means any of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Corporate Controller or any Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company or any other officer designated by the Company in writing to the Administrative Agent, in each case acting singly.
Authorised Officer
"" means the period from and including the date of this Agreement to and including the Termination Date.
Availability Period
"" means a Lender's Commitment minus:
Available Commitment
 
 
other than that Lender's participation in any Utilisations that are due to be repaid or prepaid on or before the proposed Utilisation Date.
"" means the aggregate for the time being of each Lender's Available Commitment.
Available Facility
"" means U.S. Dollars.
Base Currency
"" means, in relation to a Utilisation, the amount specified in the Utilisation Request delivered by a Borrower for that Utilisation (or, if the amount requested is not denominated in the Base Currency, that amount converted into the Base Currency at the Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange on the date which is three Business Days before the Utilisation Date or, if later, on the date the Facility Agent receives the Utilisation Request and, in the case of a Letter of Credit, as adjusted under Clause 5A.8 ()) adjusted to reflect any repayment, prepayment, consolidation or division of the Utilisation.
Base Currency Amount
Revaluation of Letters of Credit
"" means the board of directors of the Company as it may be constituted at any relevant time.
Board of Directors
"" means an Original Borrower or an Additional Borrower unless it has ceased to be a Borrower in accordance with Clause 25 ().
Borrower
Changes to the Obligors
"" means the amount (if any) by which:
Break Costs
 
 
exceeds:
 
"" means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in London, San Francisco, New York and:
Business Day
 
 
"" means at any date, the ratio of (x) Consolidated Debt, to (y) the sum of Consolidated Debt and Consolidated Net Worth.
Capitalisation Ratio
"" of any person means the obligation to pay rent or other payment amounts under a lease of (or other indebtedness arrangements conveying the right to use) real or personal property of such person which is required to be classified and accounted for as an asset and a liability on the face of a balance sheet of such person in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligation
"" means:
Commitment
 
 
to the extent not cancelled, reduced or transferred by it under this Agreement, or a Swingline Commitment or a Euro Swingline Commitment.
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set out in Schedule 8 (Form of Compliance Certificate).
Compliance Certificate
"" means a confidentiality undertaking substantially in a recommended form of the LMA as set out in Schedule 10 () or in any other form agreed between the Company and the Facility Agent.
Confidentiality Undertaking
LMA Form of Confidentiality Undertaking
"" means at any date the Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis as of such date.
Consolidated Debt
 
"" means, at any time: (a) the total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries which would be shown as assets on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of such time prepared in accordance with GAAP, after eliminating all amounts properly attributable to minority interests, if any, in the stock and surplus of Subsidiaries; minus (b) the total liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries which would be shown as liabilities on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of such time prepared in accordance with GAAP; minus (c) any consolidated balance sheet foreign currency translation adjustment.
Consolidated Net Worth
"" of any person means at any date, without duplication, (i) all obligations of such person for borrowed money, (ii) all obligations of such person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) all fixed or contingent reimbursement obligations of such person with respect to letters of credit, (iv) all obligations of such person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable, deferred compensation items, and like expense accruals arising in the ordinary course of business), except, in the case of property, to the extent that the rights and remedies of the obligor with respect to such obligations are limited to repossession or sale of such property, (v) all Capital Lease Obligations of such person, (vi) all obligations of such person for Swaps, (vii) all Debt of others secured by a Security on any asset of such person, whether or not such Debt is assumed by such person, (viii) the aggregate amount of uncollected accounts receivable of such person subject at such time to a sale of receivables (or similar transaction) regardless of whether such transaction is effected without recourse to such person or in a manner that would not be reflected on the balance sheet of such person in accordance with GAAP, (ix) all Synthetic Lease Obligations, and (x) all Debt of others Guaranteed by such person. The amount of any Debt secured by a Security pursuant to paragraph (vii) above shall be an amount equal to the lesser of (x) the aggregate outstanding amount of Debt secured by such Security and (y) the greater of the aggregate book value and the aggregate fair market value of the assets subject to such Security.
Debt
"" means an Event of Default or any event or circumstance specified in Clause 23 () which would (with the expiry of a grace period, the giving of notice, the making of any determination under the Finance Documents or any combination of any of the foregoing) be an Event of Default.
Default
Events of Default
"" means either or both of:
Disruption Event
 
 
 
 
and which (in either such case) is not caused by, and is beyond the control of, the Party whose operations are disrupted.
"" means any and all federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules or other governmental restrictions relating to the environment or to emissions, discharges or releases of pollutants, contaminants, petroleum or petroleum products, chemicals or toxic or hazardous substances or wastes into the environment including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, ground water, or land, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, petroleum or petroleum products, chemicals or toxic or hazardous substances or wastes or the clean up or other remediation thereof and any and all judgments, orders, decrees, permits, grants, franchises, licenses or agreements relating to the foregoing to which the Company or any Subsidiary is a party or which is otherwise applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary.
Environmental Laws
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, of the United States of America, or any successor statute.
ERISA
"" means the Company and all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Company, are treated, on or after the date of this Agreement, as a single employer under Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Group
"" means, in relation to any Loan in euro:
EURIBOR
 
 
as of the Specified Time on the Quotation Day for the offering of deposits in euro for a period comparable to the Interest Period of the relevant Loan.
"" means:
Euro Swingline Commitment
 
 
to the extent not cancelled, reduced or transferred by it under this Agreement.
"" means the Euro swingline loan facility made available under this Agreement as described in Clause 5F ().
Euro Swingline Facility
Euro Swingline Loans
"" means:
Euro Swingline Lender
 
 
which in each case has not ceased to be a Party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
"" means a loan made or to be made under the Euro Swingline Facility or the principal amount outstanding for the time being of that loan.
Euro Swingline Loan
"" means any event or circumstance specified as such in Clause 23 ().
Event of Default
Events of Default
"" means the revolving credit facility made available under this Agreement, as described in Clause 2 (), the Swingline Facility or the Euro Swingline Facility.
Facility
The Facility
"" means the Facility Agent's spot rate of exchange for the purchase of the relevant currency with the Base Currency in the London foreign exchange market at or about 11:00 a.m. on a particular day.
Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange
"" means the office or offices notified by a Lender to the Facility Agent in writing on or before the date it becomes a Lender (or, following that date, by not less than five Business Days' written notice) as the office or offices through which it will perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Facility Office
"" means any letter or letters dated on or about the date of this Agreement between the Arranger and the Company (or the Facility Agent and the Company) setting out any of the fees referred to in Clause 12 ().
Fee Letter
Fees
"" means this Agreement, any Fee Letter, any Accession Letter, any Resignation Letter, any Compliance Certificate and any Utilisation Request.
Finance Document
"" means the Facility Agent, the Arranger or a Lender.
Finance Party
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the jurisdiction of the relevant Obligor.
GAAP
"" means the Company and its Subsidiaries for the time being.
Group
 
"" by any person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Debt of any other person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such person (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to take or pay, or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (ii) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Debt of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part); provided that the term "" shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The term "" used as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
Guarantee
Guarantee
"" means an Original Guarantor or an Additional Guarantor, unless it has ceased to be a Guarantor in accordance with Clause 25 ().
Guarantor
Changes to the Obligors
"" means the guidelines S-02.122.1 in relation to bonds of April 1999 as issued by the Swiss Federal Tax Administration (), S-02.122.2 in relation to customer credit balances of April 1999 as issued by the Swiss Federal Tax Administration () and S-02.123 in relation to inter bank transactions of 22 September 1986 as issued by the Swiss Federal Tax Administration (), each as amended, supplemented or replaced from time to time.
Guidelines
Merkblatt S-02.122.1 vom April 1999 betreffend "Obligationen"
Merkblatt S-02.122.2 vom April 1999 betreffend Kundenguthaben
Merkblatt S-02.123 vom 22 September 1986 betreffend Zinsen von Bankguthaben, deren Glubiger Banken sind Interbankguthaben
"" means, in relation to a company or corporation, any other company or corporation in respect of which it is a Subsidiary.
Holding Company
"" means, in relation to a Loan, each period determined in accordance with Clause 10 () and, in relation to an Unpaid Sum, each period determined in accordance with Clause 9.4 ().
Interest Period
Interest Periods
Default interest
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, of the United States of America or any successor statute.
Internal Revenue Code
"" means any investment in any person, whether by means of share purchase, capital contribution, loan, time deposit or otherwise.
Investment
"" means:
Lender
 
 
which in each case has not ceased to be a Party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
"" means a letter of credit, substantially in the form set out in Schedule 12 () or in any other form requested by a Borrower and agreed by the Issuing Bank.
Letter of Credit
Form of Letter of Credit
 
"" means, in relation to any Loan:
LIBOR
 
 
as of the Specified Time on the Quotation Day for the offering of deposits in the currency of that Loan and for a period comparable to the Interest Period for that Loan.
"" means a loan made or to be made under the Facility or the principal amount outstanding for the time being of that loan, a Swingline Loan or a Euro Swingline Loan.
Loan
"" means the Loan Market Association.
LMA
"" means:
Majority Lenders
 
 
"" means the percentage rate per annum calculated by the Facility Agent in accordance with Schedule 4 ().
Mandatory Cost
Mandatory Cost formulae
"" means the percentage rate per annum which is applicable at such time with respect to a Loan as set forth in the Pricing Schedule.
Margin
"" means a material adverse effect on:
Material Adverse Effect
 
 
 
"" of any Obligor means consolidated assets and other property of such Obligor having a fair market value or book value (whichever is higher), as determined in good faith by senior management of such Obligor, as of the last day of the most recently completed financial quarter of such Obligor in excess of U.S.$30,000,000 or the equivalent in other currencies.
Material Assets
 
"" means Debt (other than the Utilisations) of the Company and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries, arising in one or more related or unrelated transactions, in an aggregate principal amount exceeding U.S.$30,000,000 or the equivalent in other currencies.
Material Debt
"" means at any time a Plan or Plans having aggregate Unfunded Liabilities in excess of U.S.$10,000,000.
Material Plan
"" means a period starting on one day in a calendar month and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the next calendar month, except that:
Month
 
 
 
The above rules will only apply to the last Month of any period.
"" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 4001(a) (3) of ERISA to which any member of the ERISA Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions or has within the preceding five plan years made contributions, including for these purposes any person which ceased to be a member of the ERISA Group during such five-year period.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means any lender that is not a Swiss or foreign bank as specified in the Guidelines.
Non-Qualifying Bank Creditor
"" means a Borrower or a Guarantor.
Obligor
"" means a currency (other than the Base Currency) which complies with the conditions set out in Clause 4.3 ().
Optional Currency
Conditions relating to Optional Currencies
"" means:
Original Financial Statements
 
 
"" means an Original Borrower or an Original Guarantor.
Original Obligor
 
"" means any member state of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the euro as its lawful currency in accordance with legislation of the European Community relating to Economic and Monetary Union.
Participating Member State
"" means a party to this Agreement.
Party
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
"" has the meaning given to it in Clause 22.4 ().
Permitted Disposition
Disposals
"" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code and either (i) is maintained, or contributed to, by any member of the ERISA Group for employees of any member of the ERISA Group or (ii) has at any time within the preceding five years been maintained, or contributed to, by any person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group for employees of any person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group.
Plan
"" means the pricing schedule set out in Schedule 13 ().
Pricing Schedule
Pricing Schedule
"" means a Swiss or foreign bank as specified in the Guidelines.
Qualifying Bank Creditor
"" has the meaning given to it in Clause 13 ().
Qualifying Lender
Tax gross-up and indemnities
"" means, in relation to any period for which an interest rate is to be determined:
Quotation Day
 
 
 
unless market practice differs in the Relevant Interbank Market for a currency, in which case the Quotation Day for that currency will be determined by the Facility Agent in accordance with market practice in the Relevant Interbank Market (and if quotations would normally be given by leading banks in the Relevant Interbank Market on more than one day, the Quotation Day will be the last of those days).
"" means, the principal London offices of Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and the principal Luxembourg office of Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S.A. or such other banks as may be appointed by the Facility Agent in consultation with the Company.
Reference Banks
 
"" means in relation to euro, the European interbank market and, in relation to any other currency, the London interbank market.
Relevant Interbank Market
"" means each of the representations set out in Clause 19 () other than Clauses 19.5 (), 19.6 (), 19.7 (), 19.8 (), 19.9 () and 19.19 ().
Repeating Representations
Representations
Authorisations
Deduction of Tax
No filing or stamp taxes
No default
Financial Statements
Compliance with Laws
"" means a letter substantially in the form set out in Schedule 7 ().
Resignation Letter
Form of Resignation Letter
"" means one or more Loans:
Rollover Loan
 
 
 
 
"" of any person means an arrangement with any lender or investor or to which such lender or investor is a party providing for the leasing by such person of any property that has been or is being sold, conveyed, transferred or otherwise disposed of by such person to such lender or investor or to any person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender or investor on the security of such property.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" means:
Screen Rate
 
 
displayed on the appropriate page of the Telerate screen. If the agreed page is replaced or service ceases to be available, the Facility Agent may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate after consultation with the Company and the Lenders.
"" means a mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or other security interest securing any obligation of any person or any other agreement or arrangement having a similar effect.
Security
 
"" means a time determined in accordance with Schedule 11 ().
Specified Time
Timetables
"" of a person means any corporation, association, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture or other business entity of which more than 50 per cent. of the voting stock, membership interests or other equity interests (in the case of persons other than corporations), is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the person or one or more Subsidiaries of the person, or a combination thereof.
Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any person, payment obligations with respect to interest rate swaps, currency swaps and similar obligations (other than forward currency contracts) obligating such person to make payments, whether periodically or upon the happening of a contingency. For the purposes of this Agreement, the amount of the obligation under any Swap shall be the amount determined in respect thereof as of the end of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of such person, based on the assumption that such Swap had terminated at the end of such fiscal quarter, and in making such determination, if any agreement relating to such Swap provides for the netting of amounts payable by and to such person thereunder or if any such agreement provides for the simultaneous payment of amounts by and to such person, then and in each such case, the amount of such obligations shall be the net amount so determined.
Swaps
"" means:
Swingline Commitment
 
 
to the extent not cancelled, reduced or transferred by it under this Agreement.
"" means the U.S. Dollar Swingline Loan Facility made available under this Agreement as described in Clause 5D ().
Swingline Facility
Swingline Loans
"" means:
Swingline Lender
 
 
which in each case has not ceased to be a Party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
"" means a loan made or to be made under the Swingline Facility or the principal amount outstanding for the time being of that loan.
Swingline Loan
 
"" means a Borrower which is incorporated under the laws of the Swiss Confederation or is resident for Swiss tax purposes in the Swiss Confederation.
Swiss Borrower
"" means of any person means the obligation to pay rent or other payment amounts under a lease of (or other indebtedness arrangements conveying the right to use) real or personal property of such person which may be classified and accounted for as an operating lease or off-balance sheet liability for accounting purposes but as a secured or unsecured loan for tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code.
Synthetic Lease Obligation
"" means Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system.
TARGET
"" means any day on which TARGET is open for the settlement of payments in euro.
TARGET Day
"" means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any penalty or interest payable in connection with any failure to pay or any delay in paying any of the same).
Tax
"" means the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Taxes Act
"" means seven years from the date of this Agreement.
Termination Date
"" means the aggregate of the Commitments, being U.S.$200,000,000 at the date of this Agreement.
Total Commitments
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set out in Schedule 5 () or any other form agreed between the Facility Agent and the Company.
Transfer Certificate
Form of Transfer Certificate
"" means, in relation to a transfer, the later of:
Transfer Date
 
 
"" means, with respect to any Plan at any time, the amount (if any) by which (i) the present value of all benefits under such Plan exceeds (ii) the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such benefits (excluding any accrued but unpaid contributions), all determined as of the then most recent valuation date for such Plan, but only to the extent that such excess represents a potential liability of a member of the ERISA Group to the PBGC or any other person under Title IV of ERISA.
Unfunded Liability
"" means any sum due and payable but unpaid by an Obligor under the Finance Documents.
Unpaid Sum
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the United States of America.
U.S. Dollars
U.S.$
"" means a Loan or a Letter of Credit.
Utilisation
 
"" means the date on which a Utilisation is made.
Utilisation Date
"" means a notice substantially in the form set out in Schedule 3 ().
Utilisation Request
Utilisation Request
"" means value added tax implemented by member states of the European Union pursuant to Directive 2006/112/EC and legislation supplemental thereto, and any tax of a similar nature imposed under the laws of any jurisdiction which is not a member state of the European Union.
VAT
"" means capital stock of any class or classes (however designated) having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of the Company, other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
Voting Stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Lenders make available to the Borrowers a multicurrency revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount equal to the Total Commitments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this event, the relevant Lender and the Affiliate will participate in that Utilisation in the manner provided for in paragraph (ii) above.
 
 
 
Each Borrower shall apply all amounts borrowed by it under the Facility towards general corporate and working capital purposes, including acquisitions, and for the refinancing of existing indebtedness, including (where lawful to do so) indebtedness of the Company.
 
No Finance Party is bound to monitor or verify the application of any amount borrowed pursuant to this Agreement.
 
 
No Borrower may deliver a Utilisation Request unless the Facility Agent has received all of the documents and other evidence listed in Part I of Schedule 2 () in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent. The Facility Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders promptly upon being so satisfied.
Conditions precedent
 
The Lenders will only be obliged to comply with Clause 5.4 () if on the date of the Utilisation Request and on the proposed Utilisation Date:
Lenders' participation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Borrower may utilise the Facility by delivery to the Facility Agent of a duly completed Utilisation Request not later than the Specified Time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Total Commitments shall be immediately cancelled at the end of the Availability Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the amount by which a Letter of Credit is repaid or prepaid under sub-paragraphs (viii)(A) and (viii)(B) above is the amount of the relevant cash cover or reduction; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility may be utilised by way of Letters of Credit.
 
A Borrower may request a Letter of Credit to be issued by delivery to the Facility Agent of a duly completed Utilisation Request substantially in the form of Part II of Schedule 3 () not later than the Specified Time.
Utilisation Request - Letters of Credit
 
Each Utilisation Request for a Letter of Credit is irrevocable and will not be regarded as having been duly completed unless:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Letter of Credit or any amount outstanding under a Letter of Credit becomes immediately payable under this Agreement, the Borrower that requested the issue of that Letter of Credit shall repay or prepay that amount immediately.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Obligor will be entitled to any right of contribution or indemnity from any Finance Party in respect of any payment it may make under this Clause 5B.6.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without affecting the responsibility of any Obligor for information supplied by it or on its behalf in connection with any Finance Document, each Lender confirms to the Issuing Bank that it has been, and will continue to be, solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with any Finance Document including, but not limited to, those listed in paragraphs (a) to (d) of Clause 26.14 ().
Credit appraisal by the Lenders
 
The address, fax number and telex number (and the department or officer, if any, for whose attention the communication is to be made) of the Issuing Bank for any communication or document to be made or delivered under or in connection with the Finance Documents is that notified in writing to the Facility Agent prior to the date of this Agreement or any substitute address, fax number, telex number or department or officer as the Issuing Bank may notify to the Facility Agent by not less than five Business Days' notice.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, an amendment or waiver which relates to the rights or obligations of the Issuing Bank may not be effected without the consent of the Issuing Bank.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
do not apply to Swingline Loans.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Swingline Lenders make available to the Borrowers a U.S. Dollar swingline loan facility in an aggregate amount equal to the Total Swingline Commitments.
 
Each Borrower shall apply all amounts borrowed by it under the Swingline Facility towards general corporate and working capital purposes, including acquisitions, and for the refinancing of existing indebtedness, including (where lawful to do so) indebtedness of the Company. A Swingline Loan may not be applied in repayment or prepayment of another Swingline Loan.
 
 
 
 
The "" of a Lender means the proportion borne by:
Proportion
 
 
The "" means, in relation to a Swingline Loan, any principal not repaid and/or any interest accrued but unpaid on that Swingline Loan calculated from the Utilisation Date to the Loss Sharing Date.
Unpaid Amount
The "" of a Lender means that part of the Unpaid Amount (if any) owed to that Lender (or its Affiliate) (before any redistribution under this Clause 5D.3 ()).
Unpaid Swingline Participation
Repayment
 
The "" of a Swingline Lender is an amount equal to its Unpaid Swingline Participation minus its (or its Affiliate's) Proportion of the Unpaid Amount.
Shortfall
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other term of this Agreement, each Lender shall ensure that at all times its Overall Commitment is not less than:
 
 
 
 
 
(i) "" of a Euro Swingline Lender means (but without limiting Clause 5E.5 ()) that Lender's Euro Swingline Commitment, expressed in U.S. Dollars, minus:
Available Euro Swingline Commitment
Relationship with Facility
 
 
other than that Lender's participation in any Euro Swingline Loans that are due to be repaid or prepaid on or before the proposed Utilisation Date.
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of this Clause, the Reference Banks are the Reference Banks defined in Clause 1 in relation to EURIBOR.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
do not apply to Euro Swingline Loans.
 
A Borrower may utilise the Euro Swingline Facility by delivery to the Facility Agent of a duly completed Utilisation Request in the form of Part IV of Schedule 3 () not later than the Specified Time.
Utilisation Request - Euro Swingline Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) no Default is continuing or would result from the proposed Utilisation; and
(ii) the Repeating Representations to be made by each Obligor are true in all material respects.
 
 
5E.5
Relationship with the Facility
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Euro Swingline Lenders make available to the Borrowers a euro swingline loan facility in an aggregate amount equal to the Total Euro Swingline Commitments.
5F.2
Purpose
Each Borrower shall apply all amounts borrowed by it under the Euro Swingline Facility towards general corporate and working capital purposes, including acquisitions, and for the refinancing of existing indebtedness, including (where lawful to do so) indebtedness of the Company. A Swingline Loan may not be applied in repayment or prepayment of another Euro Swingline Loan.
5F.3
Repayment
 
 
 
The "" of a Lender means the proportion borne by:
Proportion
 
 
The "" means, in relation to a Euro Swingline Loan, any principal not repaid and/or any interest accrued but unpaid on that Euro Swingline Loan calculated from the Utilisation Date to the Loss Sharing Date.
Unpaid Amount
 
The "" of a Lender means that part of the Unpaid Amount (if any) owed to that Lender (or its Affiliate) (before any redistribution under this Clause 5F.3, ()).
Unpaid Swingline Participation
Repayment
 
The "" of a Euro Swingline Lender is an amount equal to its Unpaid Swingline Participation minus its (or its Affiliate's) Proportion of the Unpaid Amount.
Shortfall
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other term of this Agreement, each Lender shall ensure that at all times its Overall Commitment is not less than:
 
 
 
 
A Borrower (or the Company on behalf of a Borrower) shall select the currency of a Utilisation in a Utilisation Request.
6.2
Unavailability of a currency
If before 12 noon on any Quotation Day:
 
 
 
 
Each Lender's participation in a Loan will be determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of Clause 5.4 ().
Lenders' participation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If it becomes unlawful in any applicable jurisdiction for a Lender to perform any of its obligations as contemplated by this Agreement or to fund or maintain its participation in any Utilisation:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company may, if it gives the Facility Agent not less than five Business Days' (or such shorter period as the Majority Lenders may agree) prior notice, cancel the whole or any part (being a minimum amount of U.S.$5,000,000) of the Available Facility. Any cancellation under this Clause 8.2 shall reduce the Commitments of the Lenders rateably.
 
The Borrower to which a Loan has been made may, if it gives the Facility Agent not less than five Business Days' (or such shorter period as the Majority Lenders may agree) prior notice, prepay the whole or any part of a Loan (but if in part, being an amount that reduces the Base Currency Amount of the Loan by a minimum amount of U.S.$5,000,000).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rate of interest on each Loan for each Interest Period is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate of the applicable:
 
 
 
 
All payments under a Finance Document, including, without limitation, a payment of interest calculated in accordance with Clause 9.1 (), have been computed as minimum payments net of any deduction or withholding including, without limitation, Swiss withholding tax (if any) imposed on interest payments. If it is required under applicable laws (including Swiss law) to make any deduction or withholding from any amount payable or paid by a Borrower on account of interest hereunder, the respective interest payment shall be increased subject to and in accordance with Clause 13 () as necessary to ensure that the net amount received by each Finance Party under a Finance Document after deducting the amount of such Swiss withholding taxes is equal to the full amount which each Finance Party would have received had that interest payment not been subject to such Swiss withholding taxes (i.e. net interest amount). The relevant Borrower shall provide the necessary documents and information required for the purposes of applying for a refund of Swiss withholding taxes.
Calculation of interest
Tax Gross Up and Indemnities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders and the relevant Borrower of the determination of a rate of interest under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, that Interest Period will instead end on the next Business Day in that calendar month (if there is one) or the preceding Business Day (if there is not).
 
 
Subject to Clause 11.2 (), if LIBOR or, if applicable, EURIBOR is to be determined by reference to the Reference Banks but a Reference Bank does not supply a quotation by 12 noon on the Quotation Day, the applicable LIBOR or EURIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the quotations of the remaining Reference Banks.
Market disruption
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall pay to the Arranger an arrangement fee in the amount and at the times agreed in a Fee Letter.
 
The Company shall pay to the Facility Agent (for its own account) an agency fee in the amount and at the times agreed in a Fee Letter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means a jurisdiction under the laws of which a Borrower is incorporated.
Borrower's Jurisdiction
"" means a Borrower incorporated under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany.
German Borrower
"" means a Finance Party which is or will be subject to any liability, or required to make any payment, for or on account of Tax in relation to a sum received or receivable (or any sum deemed for the purposes of Tax to be received or receivable) under a Finance Document.
Protected Party
"" means:
Qualifying Lender
 
 
 
 
 
and which is within the charge to United Kingdom corporation tax as respects any payments of interest made in respect of that advance; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means a confirmation by a Lender that the person beneficially entitled to interest payable to that Lender in respect of an advance under a Finance Document is either:
Tax Confirmation
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means a credit against, relief or remission for, or repayment of any Tax.
Tax Credit
"" means a deduction or withholding for or on account of Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.
Tax Deduction
"" means either the increase in a payment made by an Obligor to a Finance Party under Clause 13.2 () or a payment under Clause 13.3 ().
Tax Payment
Tax gross-up
Tax indemnity
"" means a Lender which:
Treaty Lender
 
 
"" means a jurisdiction having a double taxation agreement (a "") with the Borrower's jurisdiction which makes provision for full exemption from tax imposed by the Borrower's Jurisdiction on interest.
Treaty State
Treaty
"" means a Borrower incorporated under the laws of the United Kingdom.
UK Borrower
"" means:
UK Non-Bank Lender
 
 
 
13.2
Tax gross-up
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.3
Tax indemnity
 
 
 
 
 
if that Tax is imposed on or calculated by reference to the net income received or receivable (but not any sum deemed to be received or receivable) by that Finance Party; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an Obligor makes a Tax Payment and the relevant Finance Party determines that:
 
 
the Finance Party shall pay an amount to the Obligor which that Finance Party determines will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-Tax position as it would have been in had the Tax Payment not been required to be made by the Obligor.
 
The Company shall pay and, within three Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party against any cost, loss or liability that Finance Party incurs in relation to all stamp duty, registration and other similar Taxes payable in respect of any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which is incurred or suffered by a Finance Party or any of its Affiliates to the extent that it is attributable to that Finance Party having entered into its Commitment or funding or performing its obligations under any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that Obligor shall as an independent obligation, within three Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party to whom that Sum is due against any cost, loss or liability arising out of or as a result of the conversion including any discrepancy between (A) the rate of exchange used to convert that Sum from the First Currency into the Second Currency and (B) the rate or rates of exchange available to that person at the time of its receipt of that Sum.
 
 
The Company shall (or shall procure that an Obligor will), within three Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party against any cost, loss or liability incurred by that Finance Party as a result of:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall promptly indemnify the Facility Agent against any cost, loss or liability incurred by the Facility Agent (acting reasonably) as a result of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall promptly on demand pay the Facility Agent and the Arranger the amount of all costs and expenses (including the reasonable fees and expenses of Sidley Austin LLP/Sidley Austin (UK) LLP (and to the extent reasonably required, local and special counsel), provided that such payment or reimbursement obligation shall include only the reasonable fees and expenses of Sidley Austin LLP/Sidley Austin (UK) LLP and such other local and special counsel acting on behalf of the Arrangers) reasonably incurred by any of them in connection with the negotiation, preparation, printing, execution and syndication of:
 
 
 
If (a) an Obligor requests an amendment, waiver or consent or (b) an amendment is required pursuant to Clause 29.9 (), the Company shall, within three Business Days of demand, reimburse the Facility Agent for the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees) reasonably incurred by the Facility Agent in responding to, evaluating, negotiating or complying with that request or requirement.
Change of currency
 
The Company shall, within three Business Days of demand, pay to each Finance Party the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees) incurred by that Finance Party in connection with the enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under, any Finance Document.
 
 
 
Each Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally jointly and severally:
 
 
 
 
This guarantee is a continuing guarantee and will extend to the ultimate balance of sums payable by any Obligor under the Finance Documents, regardless of any intermediate payment or discharge in whole or in part.
 
If any payment by an Obligor or any discharge given by a Finance Party (whether in respect of the obligations of any Obligor or any security for those obligations or otherwise) is avoided or reduced as a result of insolvency or any similar event:
 
 
 
The obligations of each Guarantor under this Clause 18 will not be affected by an act, omission, matter or thing which, but for this Clause, would reduce, release or prejudice any of its obligations under this Clause 18 (without limitation and whether or not known to it or any Finance Party) including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Guarantor waives any right it may have of first requiring any Finance Party (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) to proceed against or enforce any other rights or security or claim payment from any person before claiming from that Guarantor under this Clause 18. This waiver applies irrespective of any law or any provision of a Finance Document to the contrary.
 
Until all amounts which may be or become payable by the Obligors under or in connection with the Finance Documents have been irrevocably paid in full, each Finance Party (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) may:
(a) refrain from applying or enforcing any other moneys, security or rights held or received by that Finance Party (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) in respect of those amounts, or apply and enforce the same in such manner and order as it sees fit (whether against those amounts or otherwise) and no Guarantor shall be entitled to the benefit of the same; and
(b) hold in an interest-bearing suspense account any moneys received from any Guarantor or on account of any Guarantor's liability under this Clause 18.
 
Until all amounts which may be or become payable by the Obligors under or in connection with the Finance Documents have been irrevocably paid in full and unless the Facility Agent otherwise directs, no Guarantor will exercise any rights which it
 
may have by reason of performance by it of its obligations under the Finance Documents:
 
 
 
If a Guarantor receives any benefit, payment or distribution in relation to such rights it shall hold that benefit, payment or distribution to the extent necessary to enable all amounts which may be or become payable to the Finance Parties by the Obligors under or in connection with the Finance Documents to be repaid in full on trust for the Finance Parties and shall promptly pay or transfer the same to the Facility Agent or as the Facility Agent may direct for application in accordance with Clause 29 (Payment mechanics) of this Agreement.
 
If any Guarantor (a "") ceases to be a Guarantor in accordance with the terms of the Finance Documents for the purpose of any sale or other disposal of that Retiring Guarantor then on the date such Retiring Guarantor ceases to be a Guarantor:
Retiring Guarantor
 
 
 
This guarantee is in addition to and is not in any way prejudiced by any other guarantee or security now or subsequently held by any Finance Party.
 
 
Each Obligor makes the representations and warranties set out in this Clause 19 to each Finance Party on the date of this Agreement.
19.1
Status
 
 
 
 
The obligations expressed to be assumed by it in each Finance Document are, legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligations subject to:
 
 
 
The entry into and performance by it of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Finance Documents do not and will not conflict with:
 
 
 
 
It has the power to enter into, perform and deliver, and has taken all necessary action to authorise its entry into, performance and delivery of, the Finance Documents to which it is a party and the transactions contemplated by those Finance Documents.
 
All Authorisations necessary to enable it lawfully to enter into, exercise its rights and comply with its obligations in the Finance Documents to which it is a party have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect.
 
 
 
 
Under the law of its jurisdiction of incorporation it is not necessary that the Finance Documents be filed, recorded or enrolled with any court or other authority in that jurisdiction or that any stamp, registration or similar tax be paid on or in relation to the Finance Documents or the transactions contemplated by the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Its payment obligations under the Finance Documents rank at least pari passu with the claims of all its other unsecured and unsubordinated creditors, except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to companies generally.
 
No litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings of or before any court, arbitral body or agency which, if adversely determined, might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect have been started or (to the best of its knowledge and belief)threatened against it or any of its Subsidiaries.
 
In the ordinary course of its business, the Company conducts a review at such times as it deems prudent of the effect of Environmental Laws on the properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated liabilities and costs (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean up or closure of properties presently or previously owned, any capital or operating expenditures required to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by law or as a condition of any licence, permit or contract, any related constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Company has reasonably concluded that Environmental Laws are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Schedule 14 () hereto contains an accurate list of all of the Company's Subsidiaries, setting forth their respective jurisdictions of incorporation or formation and the percentage of their capital stock or other ownership interests owned by the Company or other Subsidiaries. Each of the Company's Subsidiaries that is material to the business or operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, considered as a whole, is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, and has all corporate powers and all Authorisations required to carry on its business as now conducted, except where the failure to have such Authorisations could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Subsidiaries
 
All information heretofore furnished in writing by any Obligor to the Facility Agent or any Lender for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby is, and all such information hereafter furnished in writing by any Obligor to the Facility Agent or any Lender will be, when taken as a whole, true and accurate in all material respects on the date as of which such information is stated or certified. Each Obligor has disclosed to the Lenders in writing any and all facts which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company" registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or controlled by such a company.
 
Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is a party to any agreement or instrument or subject to any charter or other corporate restriction which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in default in the performance, observance or fulfilment of any of the obligations, covenants or conditions contained in any agreement to which it is a party, which default could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in default in the performance, observance or fulfilment of any of the obligations, covenants or conditions contained in any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing Debt.
 
The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all United States Federal income tax returns and all other material tax returns which are required to be filed by them, taking into account any filing extensions for any such returns, and have paid all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries except such taxes or assets, if any, as are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves have been established as required by GAAP. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Company and its Subsidiaries in respect of taxes or other governmental charges are, in the opinion of the Company, adequate.
 
No Swiss Borrower has any outstanding loan facilities or private placements in relation to which:
 
 
in each case as each term is defined or used in the Guidelines.
 
The Company and its Subsidiaries have complied with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations, orders and restrictions of any domestic or foreign government or any instrumentality or agency thereof, having jurisdiction over the conduct of their respective businesses or the ownership of their respective property, except where the failure to so comply could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has received any notice to the effect that its operations are not in material compliance with any of the requirements of applicable federal, state and local environmental, health and safety statutes and regulations or the subject of any federal or state investigation evaluating whether any remedial action is needed to respond to a release of any toxic or hazardous waste or
 
substance into the environment, which non-compliance or remedial action could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries has incurred any Security other than to the extent permitted pursuant to Clause 22.3 ().
Negative pledge
 
The Repeating Representations are deemed to be made by each Obligor by reference to the facts and circumstances then existing on:
 
 
 
The undertakings in this Clause 20 remain in force from the date of this Agreement for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
 
The Company shall supply to the Facility Agent in sufficient copies for all the Lenders:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any reference in this Agreement to those financial statements shall be construed as a reference to those financial statements as adjusted to reflect the basis upon which the Original Financial Statements were prepared.
 
The Company shall supply to the Facility Agent (in sufficient copies for all the Lenders, if the Facility Agent so requests):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any Lender (a "") does not agree to the delivery of information electronically then the Facility Agent shall notify the Company accordingly and the Company shall supply the information to the Facility Agent (in sufficient copies for each Paper Form Lender) in paper form. In any event the Company shall supply the Facility Agent with at least one copy in paper form of any information required to be provided by it.
Paper Form Lender
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Company notifies the Facility Agent under paragraph (c)(i) or paragraph (c)(v) above, all information to be provided by the Company under this Agreement after the date of that notice shall be supplied in paper form unless and until the Facility Agent and each Website Lender is satisfied that the circumstances giving rise to the notification are no longer continuing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
obliges the Facility Agent or any Lender (or, in the case of paragraph (iii) above, any prospective new Lender) to comply with "know your customer" or similar identification procedures in circumstances where the necessary information is not already available to it, each Obligor shall promptly upon the request of the Facility Agent or any Lender supply, or procure the supply of, such documentation and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the Facility Agent (for itself or on behalf of any Lender) or any Lender (for itself or, in the case of the event described in paragraph (iii) above, on behalf of any prospective new Lender) in order for the Facility Agent, such Lender or, in the case of the event described in paragraph (iii) above, any prospective new Lender to carry out and be satisfied it has complied with all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations pursuant to the transactions contemplated in the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
21.1
Capitalisation Ratio
The Capitalisation Ratio will not be, at any time, more than 0.55 to 1.0.
 
Only so long as the following covenant shall also be effective pursuant to any other instrument or agreement to which any of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company shall be a party, the Company will not, at any time, permit Consolidated Net Worth to be less than U.S.$750,000,000.
 
The undertakings in this Clause 22 remain in force from the date of this Agreement for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
 
Each Obligor shall promptly:
 
 
any Authorisation required under any law or regulation of its jurisdiction of incorporation to enable it to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents and to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability or admissibility in evidence in its jurisdiction of incorporation of any Finance Document.
 
Each Obligor shall comply in all respects with all laws to which it may be subject, if failure so to comply would materially impair its ability to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary shall incur or suffer to exist any Security over any of its assets, except:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary will consolidate or merge with or into any other person unless (a) the Company is the corporation surviving such merger or, in the case of any Subsidiary consolidating or merging with a person other than the Company, the surviving entity is a Subsidiary, and (b) immediately after giving effect to such merger, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
 
The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all their respective tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles are being maintained by the Company or such Subsidiary.
 
 
 
 
The Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, substantially continue to engage in the life sciences or chemicals businesses or businesses ancillary thereto, and will preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect, and will cause each Subsidiary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect their respective corporate existence and their respective rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of business, provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the
 
business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Lenders; and provided further, that nothing in this Clause shall prevent the Company from consummating a Permitted Disposition.
 
The proceeds of the Loans and Letters of Credit shall be used for general corporate and working capital purposes, including acquisitions, and (where lawful) for the refinancing of existing indebtedness.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, enter into any material transaction with any Affiliate (other than a transaction between the Company and any Subsidiary or a transaction between Subsidiaries) which transaction is not on terms and conditions at least as favourable to the Company or such Subsidiary as the terms and conditions which would apply in a similar transaction with a person not an Affiliate (an ""). Any material transaction with any Affiliate shall be deemed to be an Arm's Length Transaction if approved by (a) a majority of the Company's directors who are unaffiliated with such Affiliate or (b) a majority of the members of any committee of the Board of Directors of the Company who are unaffiliated with such Affiliate.
Arm's Length Transaction
 
The Company will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, incur or at any time be liable with respect to any Debt except (a) Debt outstanding on the date hereof, (b) Debt incurred by the Company hereafter if, after giving effect thereto, the Capitalisation Ratio is not more than 0.55 to 1.00, (c) Debt of any Subsidiary incurred hereafter and owing to the Company or any Subsidiary and (d) Debt incurred by a Subsidiary hereafter not otherwise permitted by paragraph (a) of this Clause 22.11 if, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount outstanding of Debt under paragraphs (a) and (d) of this Clause 22.11, together with the aggregate amount outstanding of Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries secured by Security, does not exceed at any time 25 per cent. of Consolidated Net Worth.
 
No Swiss Borrower shall have at any time any outstanding loan facilities or private placements in relation to which:
 
 
in each case as such terms are used or defined in the Guidelines.
 
Each Swiss Borrower will at all times meet both the Swiss thin capitalisation and the maximum interest safe harbour rules as issued by the Swiss Federal Tax Administration as amended from time to time.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into or permit to exist any agreement with any person which prohibits or limits the ability of any Subsidiary to (a) declare or pay any dividend or (b) make any loan to or Investment in the Company or any other Subsidiary; provided that this paragraph (b) shall not prohibit agreements between the Company or any Subsidiary and any person which require that transactions with any Affiliate (i) be on an "arm's length" basis, (ii) be approved by the disinterested directors of the Board of Directors, or (iii) be subject to any substantive or procedural requirements substantially similar to paragraphs (i) or (ii) above.
 
Each of the events or circumstances set out in Clause 23 is an Event of Default (save for Clause 23.14 ()).
Acceleration
 
An Obligor does not pay on the due date any amount payable pursuant to a Finance Document at the place and in the currency in which it is expressed to be payable unless:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any representation or statement made or deemed to be made by an Obligor in the Finance Documents or any other document delivered by or on behalf of any Obligor under or in connection with any Finance Document is or proves to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed to be made.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any corporate action or legal proceedings is taken in relation to:
 
 
 
 
or any analogous procedure or step is taken in any jurisdiction.
 
Any expropriation, attachment, sequestration, distress or execution affects any Material Assets of any Obligor.
 
An Obligor (other than the Company) is not or ceases to be a Subsidiary of the Company.
 
It is or becomes unlawful for an Obligor to perform any of its obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
An Obligor repudiates a Finance Document or evidences an intention to repudiate a Finance Document or challenges the validity or enforceability of its obligations under the Finance Documents or for any reason the Finance Documents shall cease to be in full force and effect.
 
An uninsured judgment or judgments for the payment of money aggregating in excess of U.S.$25,000,000 are rendered against an Obligor and its Subsidiaries and which judgments are not, within 60 days after entry thereof, bonded, discharged or stayed pending appeal, or are not discharged within 60 days after the expiration of such stay.
 
Any member of the ERISA Group shall fail to pay when due an amount or amounts aggregating in excess of U.S.$25,000,000 which it shall have become liable to pay under Title IV of ERISA; or notice of intent to terminate a Material Plan shall be filed under Title IV of ERISA by any member of the ERISA Group, any plan administrator
 
or any combination of the foregoing; or the PBGC shall institute proceedings under Title IV of ERISA to terminate, to impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or to cause a trustee to be appointed to administer any Material Plan; or a condition shall exist by reason of which the PBGC would be entitled to obtain a decree adjudicating that any Material Plan must be terminated; or there shall occur a complete or partial withdrawal from, or a default, within the meaning of Section 4219(c)(5) of ERISA, with respect to, one or more Multiemployer Plans which could cause one or more members of the ERISA Group to incur a current payment obligation in excess of U.S.$25,000,000.
 
 
 
 
On and at any time after the occurrence of an Event of Default the Facility Agent may, and shall if so directed by the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Company:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to this Clause 24.1 () and Clause 24.2 (Limitation on Non-Qualifying Bank Creditors), a Lender (the "") may:
Assignments and transfers by the Lenders
Existing Lender
 
 
(such portion in any case to be in an amount equal to or greater than U.S.$5,000,000) to another bank or financial institution or to a trust, fund or other entity which is regularly engaged in or established for the purpose of making, purchasing or investing in loans, securities or other financial assets (the "").
New Lender
 
 
 
 
in each case as such terms are used or defined in the Guidelines.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then the New Lender or Lender acting through its new Facility Office is only entitled to receive payment under those Clauses to the same extent as the Existing Lender or Lender acting through its previous Facility Office would have been if the assignment, transfer or change had not occurred.
 
The New Lender shall, on the date upon which an assignment or transfer takes effect, pay to the Facility Agent (for its own account) a fee of U.S.$3,500.
 
 
 
 
 
 
and any representations or warranties implied by law are excluded.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after it has executed a Transfer Certificate, send to the Company a copy of that Transfer Certificate.
 
Any Lender may disclose to any of its Affiliates and any other person:
 
 
 
any information about any Obligor, the Group and the Finance Documents as that Lender shall consider appropriate if, in relation to paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the person to whom the information is to be given has entered into a Confidentiality Undertaking.
 
 
No Obligor may assign any of its rights or transfer any of its rights or obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
whereupon that company shall cease to be a Borrower and shall have no further rights or obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Delivery of an Accession Letter constitutes confirmation by the relevant Subsidiary that each of the representations set out in Clause 19 () (and so that the reference in Clause 19.9 () to December 31, 2006 shall be deemed to be a reference to the last day of the financial year of such Additional Obligor for which financial statements have been delivered to the Facility Agent) are true and correct in relation to it as at the date of delivery as if made by reference to the facts and circumstances then existing.
Representations
Financial statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as specifically provided in the Finance Documents, the Arranger has no obligations of any kind to any other Party under or in connection with any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent and the Arranger may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of banking or other business with any member of the Group.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neither the Facility Agent nor the Arranger:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Lender shall (in proportion to its share of the Total Commitments or, if the Total Commitments are then zero, to its share of the Total Commitments immediately prior to their reduction to zero) indemnify the Facility Agent, within three Business Days of demand, against any cost, loss or liability (including, without limitation, for negligence or any other category of liability whatsoever) incurred by the Facility Agent (otherwise than by reason of the Facility Agent's gross negligence or wilful misconduct) (or, in the case of any cost, loss or liability pursuant to Clause 29.10 () notwithstanding the Facility Agent's negligence, gross negligence or any other category of liability whatsoever but not including any claim based on the fraud of the Facility Agent) in acting as Facility Agent under the Finance Documents (unless the Facility Agent has been reimbursed by an Obligor pursuant to a Finance Document).
Disruption to Payment Systems etc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without affecting the responsibility of any Obligor for information supplied by it or on its behalf in connection with any Finance Document, each Lender confirms to the Facility Agent and the Arranger that it has been, and will continue to be, solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with any Finance Document including but not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
If a Reference Bank (or, if a Reference Bank is not a Lender, the Lender of which it is an Affiliate) ceases to be a Lender, the Facility Agent shall (in consultation with the Company) appoint another Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender to replace that Reference Bank.
 
If any Party owes an amount to the Facility Agent under the Finance Documents the Facility Agent may, after giving notice to that Party, deduct an amount not exceeding that amount from any payment to that Party which the Facility Agent would otherwise be obliged to make under the Finance Documents and apply the amount deducted in or towards satisfaction of the amount owed. For the purposes of the Finance Documents that Party shall be regarded as having received any amount so deducted.
 
No provision of this Agreement will:
 
 
 
 
 
If a Finance Party (a "") receives or recovers any amount from an Obligor other than in accordance with Clause 29 () and applies that amount to a payment due under the Finance Documents then:
Recovering Finance Party
Payment mechanics
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent shall treat the Sharing Payment as if it had been paid by the relevant Obligor and distribute it between the Finance Parties (other than the Recovering Finance Party) in accordance with Clause 29.5 ().
Partial payments
 
 
 
 
If any part of the Sharing Payment received or recovered by a Recovering Finance Party becomes repayable and is repaid by that Recovering Finance Party, then:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each payment received by the Facility Agent under the Finance Documents for another Party shall, subject to Clause 29.3 () and Clause 29.4 () be made available by the Facility Agent as soon as practicable after receipt to the Party entitled to receive payment in accordance with this Agreement (in the case of a Lender, for the account of its Facility Office), to such account as that Party may notify to the Facility Agent by not less than five Business Days' notice with a bank in the principal financial centre of the country of that currency (or, in relation to euro, in the principal financial centre of a Participating Member State or London).
Distributions to an Obligor
Clawback
 
The Facility Agent may (with the consent of the Obligor or in accordance with Clause 30 ()) apply any amount received by it for that Obligor in or towards payment (on the date and in the currency and funds of receipt) of any amount due from that Obligor under the Finance Documents or in or towards purchase of any amount of any currency to be so applied.
Set-off
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All payments to be made by an Obligor under the Finance Documents shall be calculated and be made without (and free and clear of any deduction for) set-off or counterclaim.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If either the Facility Agent determines (in its discretion) that a Disruption Event has occurred or the Facility Agent is notified by the Company that a Disruption Event has occurred:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Finance Party may set off any matured obligation due from an Obligor under the Finance Documents (to the extent beneficially owned by that Finance Party) against any matured obligation owed by that Finance Party to that Obligor, regardless of the place of payment, booking branch or currency of either obligation. If the obligations are in different currencies, the Finance Party may convert either obligation at a market rate of exchange in its usual course of business for the purpose of the set-off.
 
 
Any communication to be made under or in connection with the Finance Documents shall be made in writing and, unless otherwise stated, may be made by fax or letter.
 
The address and fax number (and the department or officer, if any, for whose attention the communication is to be made) of each Party for any communication or document to be made or delivered under or in connection with the Finance Documents is:
 
 
 
or any substitute address or fax number or department or officer as the Party may notify to the Facility Agent (or the Facility Agent may notify to the other Parties, if a change is made by the Facility Agent) by not less than five Business Days' notice.
 
 
 
 
and, if a particular department or officer is specified as part of its address details provided under Clause 31.2 (), if addressed to that department or officer.
Addresses
 
 
 
 
Promptly upon receipt of notification of an address or fax number or change of address or fax number pursuant to Clause 31.2 () or changing its own address or fax number, the Facility Agent shall notify the other Parties.
Addresses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In any litigation or arbitration proceedings arising out of or in connection with a Finance Document, the entries made in the accounts maintained by a Finance Party are in the absence of manifest error, evidence of the matters to which they relate.
prima facie
 
Any certification or determination by a Finance Party of a rate or amount under any Finance Document is, in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which it relates.
 
Any interest, commission or fee accruing under a Finance Document will accrue from day to day and is calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and a year of 360 days or, in any case where the practice in the Relevant Interbank Market differs, in accordance with that market practice.
 
If, at any time, any provision of the Finance Documents is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under any law of any jurisdiction, neither the legality, validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions nor the legality, validity or enforceability of such provision under the law of any other jurisdiction will in any way be affected or impaired.
 
No failure to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, on the part of any Finance Party, any right or remedy under the Finance Documents shall operate as a waiver, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right or remedy prevent any further or other exercise or the exercise of any other right or remedy. The rights and remedies provided in this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shall not be made without the prior consent of all the Lenders.
 
 
Each Finance Document may be executed in any number of counterparts, and this has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of the Finance Document.
 
 
This Agreement is governed by English law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without prejudice to any other mode of service allowed under any relevant law, each Obligor (other than an Obligor incorporated in England and Wales):
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent and each Lender represent that they will maintain the confidentiality of any written or oral information provided under this Agreement by or on behalf of the Company that is identified by the Company at the time as being subject to this Clause 39 (hereinafter collectively called "", subject to the Facility Agent's and each Lender's:
Confidential Information
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such information supplied to a Lender, sub-participant, prospective sub-participant or prospective assignee under this Agreement shall cease to be Confidential Information if it is or becomes known to such Person by other than unauthorised disclosure, or if it becomes a matter of public knowledge.
This Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
None
Name of Issuing Bank
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: []
Borrower
To: []
Facility Agent
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yours faithfully
 
 
From: []
Borrower
To:     []
Facility Agent
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
 
 
 
Delivery Instructions:
[specify delivery instructions]
 
 
From: []
Borrower
To:     []
Facility Agent
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: []
Borrower
To:     []
Facility Agent
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Lender shall promptly notify the Facility Agent of any change to the information provided by it pursuant to this paragraph.
 
 
 
 
 
 
To: [ ] as Facility Agent
From: [] (the "") and [] (the "")
The Existing Lender
Existing Lender
The New Lender
New Lender
Dated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To: [ ] as Facility Agent
From: [] and []
Subsidiary
Company
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
 
Address:
Fax No:
Attention:
 
[This Guarantor Accession Letter is entered into by deed.]
 
 
To: [            ] as Facility Agent
From: [] and []
resigning Obligor
Company
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To:     [            ] as Facility Agent
From: []
Company
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
Clause 21.1 Capitalisation Ratio and Pricing Schedule
 
 
 
[]
insert applicable certification language
**
 
 
None.
 
 
 
Dear Sirs
We understand that you are considering [acquiring]
1
/[arranging the acquisition of]
2
an interest in the Agreement (the ""). In consideration of us agreeing to make available to you certain information, by your signature of a copy of this letter you agree as follows:
Acquisition
 
You undertake (a) to keep the Confidential Information confidential and not to disclose it to anyone except as provided for by paragraph 2 below and to ensure that the Confidential Information is protected with security measures and a degree of care that would apply to your own confidential information, (b) to use the Confidential Information only for the Permitted Purpose, (c) to use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that any person to whom you pass any Confidential Information (unless disclosed under paragraph 2[(c)/(d)]
3
below) acknowledges and complies with the provisions of this letter as if that person were also a party to it, and (d) not to make enquiries of any member of the Group or any of their officers, directors, employees or professional advisers relating directly or indirectly to the Acquisition.
 
We agree that you may disclose Confidential Information:
 
 
 
 
 
You agree (to the extent permitted by law) to inform us of the full circumstances of any disclosure under paragraph 2[(c)/(d)]
3
or upon becoming aware that Confidential Information has been disclosed in breach of this letter.
 
If we so request in writing, you shall return all Confidential Information supplied to you by us and destroy or permanently erase all copies of Confidential Information made by you and use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that anyone to whom you have supplied any Confidential Information destroys or permanently erases such Confidential Information and any copies made by them, in each case save to the extent that you or the recipients are required to retain any such Confidential Information by any applicable law, rule or regulation or by any competent judicial, governmental, supervisory or regulatory body or in accordance with internal policy, or where the Confidential Information has been disclosed under paragraph 2[(c)/(d)]
3
above.
 
The obligations in this letter are continuing and, in particular, shall survive the termination of any discussions or negotiations between you and us. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the obligations in this letter shall cease (a) if you become a party to or otherwise acquire (by assignment or sub-participation) an interest, direct or indirect, in the Agreement or (b) twelve months after you have returned all Confidential Information supplied to you by us and destroyed or permanently erased all copies of Confidential Information made by you (other than any such Confidential Information or copies which have been disclosed under paragraph 2 above (other than sub-paragraph 2(a)) or which, pursuant to paragraph 4 above, are not required to be returned or destroyed).
 
You acknowledge and agree that:
 
 
 
This letter sets out the full extent of your obligations of confidentiality owed to us in relation to the information the subject of this letter. No failure or delay in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder will operate as a waiver thereof nor will any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege preclude any further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privileges hereunder. The terms of this letter and your obligations hereunder may only be amended or modified by written agreement between us.
 
You acknowledge that some or all of the Confidential Information is or may be price-sensitive information and that the use of such information may be regulated or prohibited by applicable legislation relating to insider dealing and you undertake not to use any Confidential Information for any unlawful purpose.
 
The undertakings given by you under this letter are given to us and (without implying any fiduciary obligations on our part) are also given for the benefit of [our principal,]
4
the Borrower and each other member of the Group.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this letter (including the acknowledgement set out below) terms defined in the Agreement shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the same meaning and:
"" means any information relating to the Borrower, the Group, the Agreement and/or the Acquisition provided to you by us or any of our affiliates or advisers, in whatever form, and includes information given orally and any document, electronic file or any other way of representing or recording information which contains or is derived or copied from such information but excludes information that (a) is or becomes public knowledge other than as a direct or indirect result of any breach of this letter or (b) is known by you before the date the information is disclosed to you by us or any of our affiliates or advisers or is lawfully obtained by you thereafter, other than from a source which is connected with the Group and which, in either case, as far as you are aware, has not been obtained in violation of, and is not otherwise subject to, any obligation of confidentiality;
Confidential Information
"" means the Borrower and each of its holding companies and subsidiaries and each subsidiary of each of its holding companies (as each such term is defined in the Companies Act 1985);
Group
"" means [subject to the terms of this letter, passing on information to a prospective purchaser for the purpose of]
Permitted Purpose
2
considering and evaluating whether to enter into the Acquisition; and
"" means you, each of your holding companies and subsidiaries and each subsidiary of each of your holding companies (as each such term is defined in the Companies Act 1985).
Purchaser Group
Please acknowledge your agreement to the above by signing and returning the enclosed copy.
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Sirs
We are considering [acquiring]
1
/[arranging the acquisition of]
2
an interest in the Agreement (the ""). In consideration of you agreeing to make available to us certain information, by our signature of this letter we agree as follows (acknowledged and agreed by you by your signature of a copy of this letter):
Acquisition
 
We undertake (a) to keep the Confidential Information confidential and not to disclose it to anyone except as provided for by paragraph 2 below and to ensure that the Confidential Information is protected with security measures and a degree of care that would apply to our own confidential information, (b) to use the Confidential Information only for the Permitted Purpose, (c) to use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that any person to whom we pass any Confidential Information (unless disclosed under paragraph 2[(c)/(d)]
3
below) acknowledges and complies with the provisions of this letter as if that person were also a party to it, and (d) not to make enquiries of any member of the Group or any of their officers, directors, employees or professional advisers relating directly or indirectly to the Acquisition.
 
You agree that we may disclose Confidential Information:
 
 
 
 
 
We agree (to the extent permitted by law) to inform you of the full circumstances of any disclosure under paragraph 2[(c)/(d)]
3
or upon becoming aware that Confidential Information has been disclosed in breach of this letter.
 
If you so request in writing, we shall return all Confidential Information supplied by you to us and destroy or permanently erase all copies of Confidential Information made by us and use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that anyone to whom we have supplied any Confidential Information destroys or permanently erases such Confidential Information and any copies made by them, in each case save to the extent that we or the recipients are required to retain any such Confidential Information by any applicable law, rule or regulation or by any competent judicial, governmental, supervisory or regulatory body or in accordance with internal policy, or where the Confidential Information has been disclosed under paragraph 2[(c)/(d)]
3
above.
 
The obligations in this letter are continuing and, in particular, shall survive the termination of any discussions or negotiations between you and us. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the obligations in this letter shall cease (a) if we become a party to or otherwise acquire (by assignment or sub-participation) an interest, direct or indirect, in the Agreement or (b) twelve months after we have returned all Confidential Information supplied to us by you and destroyed or permanently erased all copies of Confidential Information made by us (other than any such Confidential Information or copies which have been disclosed under paragraph 2 above (other than sub-paragraph 2(a)) or which, pursuant to paragraph 4 above, are not required to be returned or destroyed).
 
We acknowledge and agree that:
(a) neither you, [nor your principal]
4
nor any member of the Group nor any of your or their respective officers, employees or advisers (each a "Relevant Person") (i) make any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to, or assume any responsibility for, the accuracy, reliability or completeness of any of the Confidential Information or any other information supplied by you or the assumptions on which it is based or (ii) shall be under any obligation to update or correct any inaccuracy in the Confidential Information or any other information supplied by you or be otherwise liable to us or any other person in respect to the Confidential Information or any such information; and
(b) you [or your principal]
4
or members of the Group may be irreparably harmed by the breach of the terms hereof and damages may not be an adequate remedy; each Relevant Person may be granted an injunction or specific performance for any threatened or actual breach of the provisions of this letter by us.
 
This letter sets out the full extent of our obligations of confidentiality owed to you in relation to the information the subject of this letter. No failure or delay in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder will operate as a waiver thereof nor will any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege preclude any further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privileges hereunder. The terms of this letter and our obligations hereunder may only be amended or modified by written agreement between us.
 
We acknowledge that some or all of the Confidential Information is or may be price-sensitive information and that the use of such information may be regulated or prohibited by applicable legislation relating to insider dealing and we undertake not to use any Confidential Information for any unlawful purpose.
 
The undertakings given by us under this letter are given to you and (without implying any fiduciary obligations on your part) are also given for the benefit of [your principal,]
4
the Borrower and each other member of the Group.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this letter (including the acknowledgement set out below) terms defined in the Agreement shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the same meaning and:
" means any information relating to the Borrower, the Group, the Agreement and/or the Acquisition provided to us by you or any of our affiliates or advisers, in whatever form, and includes information given orally and any document, electronic file or any other way of representing or recording information which contains or is derived or copied from such information but excludes information that (a) is or becomes public knowledge other than as a direct or indirect result of any breach of this letter or (b) is known by us before the date the information is disclosed to us by you or any of your affiliates or advisers or is lawfully obtained by us thereafter, other than from a source which is connected with the Group and which, in either case, as far as we are aware, has not been obtained in violation of, and is not otherwise subject to, any obligation of confidentiality;
"Confidential Information
"" means the Borrower and each of its holding companies and subsidiaries and each subsidiary of each of its holding companies (as each such term is defined in the Companies Act 1985);
Group
"" means [subject to the terms of this letter, passing on information to a prospective purchaser for the purpose of]
Permitted Purpose
2
considering and evaluating whether to enter into the Acquisition; and
"" means us, each of our holding companies and subsidiaries and each subsidiary of each of our holding companies (as each such term is defined in the Companies Act 1985).
Purchaser Group
Please acknowledge your agreement to the above by signing and returning the enclosed copy.
Yours faithfully
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(the )
"Beneficiary"
[Date]
At the request of [                            ], [] (the ) issues this irrevocable standby letter of credit () in your favour on the following terms and conditions:
Issuing bank
"Issuing Bank"
"Letter of Credit"
 
In this Letter of Credit:
means a day (other than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in [London].
"Business Day"
5
means a demand for a payment under this Letter of Credit in the form of the schedule to this Letter of Credit.
"Demand"
means [                        ].
"Expiry Date"
means [                        ].
"Total L/C Amount"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All payments under this Letter of Credit shall be made in [            ] and for value on the due date to the account of the Beneficiary specified in the Demand.
 
Each Demand shall be in writing, and, unless otherwise stated, may be made by letter[, fax] or [telex] and must be received in legible form by the Issuing Bank at its address and by the particular department or officer (if any) as follows:
[                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ]
 
The Beneficiary's rights under this Letter of Credit may not be assigned or transferred.
 
Except to the extent it is inconsistent with the express terms of this Letter of Credit, this Letter of Credit is subject to the International Standby Practices (ISP 98), International Chamber of Commerce Publication No. 590.
 
This Letter of Credit is governed by English law.
 
The courts of England have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Letter of Credit.
Yours faithfully,
[]
Issuing Bank
By:
 
To: [ISSUING BANK]
[Date]
Dear Sirs
Standby Letter of Credit no. [    ] issued in favour of [BENEFICIARY] (the "Letter of Credit")
We refer to the Letter of Credit. Terms defined in the Letter of Credit have the same meaning when used in this demand.
 
 
Name:
Account Number:
Bank:
 
Yours faithfully
 
 
 
: The credit rating in effect on any date for the purposes of this Schedule is that in effect at the close of business on such date. If at any time the company does not have the applicable rating from Moody's Investors Service Limited ("") or Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies, Inc (""), Level 4 status shall exist. If at any time the Moody's rating and S&P rating would not both have the same status, the margin calculated as the average between the two applicable ratings shall apply.
Note
Moody's
S&P
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
March 13, 2007
SIGMA-ALDRICH (NASDAQ:SIAL) ANNOUNCES NEW EUROPEAN CREDIT FACILITY
 Sigma-Aldrich announced today that it has established a new $200 million multi-currency senior revolving credit facility in Europe. The new $200 million credit facility will mature on March 13, 2014. The multi-currency revolving credit facility will be used for general purposes, including any acquisitions, by our European operations.
ST. LOUIS, MO
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. served as co- lead arrangers and joint bookrunners for the seven-bank syndicate participating in this facility. Wells Fargo Bank, National Association acted as the administrative agent.
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 36 countries and has 7,500 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating Customers' success through leadership in and. For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award-winning web site at www.sigma-aldrich.com.
About Sigma -Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science, High Technology
Service


