FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20081105171408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 30, 2008, Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing the appointment of Rakesh Sachdev as Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Mr. Sachdev, (age 52), will join Sigma-Aldrich effective November 17, 2008 and report to Jai Nagarkatti, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). He succeeds Sigma-Aldrich's current CFO Mike Hogan who announced his plans to retire earlier this year. Mr. Hogan's retirement is effective November 30, 2008.
Prior to his appointment at Sigma-Aldrich, Mr. Sachdev was employed by ArvinMeritor, most recently as Senior Vice President and President Asia Pacific since March 2007. He served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and Strategy from April 2005 through March 2007. He served as Interim Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Controller from August 2003 to March 2005. Mr. Sachdev has been employed by ArvinMeritor since 1999. He also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Regal Beloit (NYSE: RBC).
Mr. Sachdev will receive annual base pay of $475,000. In 2009, he will be eligible to participate in the Company's Cash Bonus Plan at a target level of 65% of base salary. The Cash Bonus Plan is described fully in the Company's 2008 Proxy Statement filed March 13, 2008 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). He will also be eligible to participate in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, also described in the Company's 2008 Proxy Statement. The Cash Bonus Plan and the Long-Term Incentive Plan documents have been filed as exhibits 10(c) and 10(d), respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein. On November 17, 2008, the Company is expected to award Mr. Sachdev a one-time equity and cash grant of approximately $1.5 million that will vest over a three-year period. The equity portions (66%) vest in equal thirds on the anniversary of his hire date. The cash portion (33%) vests on the first and second anniversaries of his hire date. As a senior executive of the Company, a stock holding requirement of two times annual salary is required, to be fulfilled over a five year period beginning in 2009. The signed offer letter is attached as Exhibit 10(a) to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the offer letter.
Mr. Sachdev has signed the Company's standard Form of Employment Agreement. The form is filed as exhibit 10(b) of this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
In addition to the CFO announcement, Sigma-Aldrich is also announcing other promotions to and organization changes in its current management team that are effective January 1, 2009 to further develop its global talent and align the leadership team with its strategic objectives.
Karen Miller (age 51), currently the Controller, will be promoted to the newly created position of Vice President-Strategy & Corporate Development and will report to Jai Nagarkatti. In her new role, Ms. Miller will lead the Company's efforts to identify growth opportunities through new ventures, alliances, partnerships, continue to refine the Company's market intelligence capabilities and develop more robust strategic planning. She joined Sigma-Aldrich in 1997 as Controller. Ms. Miller will continue to support the Finance function during the next few months to ensure a smooth and orderly transition. In a related announcement, Kevin Krosley (age 44), will assume the role of Vice-President-New Ventures Group and will report to Ms. Miller.
Dave Julien (age 54), previously President-Research Specialties, will take on the newly created role of President-Supply Chain to accelerate the development of the Company's global integrated supply chain. This move emphasizes the strategic importance of the Company's world-class ability to procure, produce and deliver the highest quality products quickly, effectively and efficiently to its customers around the world and to realize the previously communicated profit margin expansion.
 
Frank Wicks (age 55), currently President-SAFC will assume the role of President-Research Specialties & Research Essentials. Under his leadership both units will continue to respond to the needs of their unique customer segments and will also accelerate internal synergies in marketing, business development and support services for these business units.
Gilles Cottier (age 50), currently President-Research Essentials, will become President-SAFC. Cottier's in-depth understanding of the Company's global markets and the development of customer responsive organizations will be an excellent fit with the customer solution driven focus of our SAFC business unit.
 
 
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 5, 2008
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10(a)
 
October 23, 2008
Mr. Rakesh Sachdev
3326 Quartan Road
Bloomfield, Michigan 48304
Dear Rakesh:
This letter confirms our offer of employment to join Sigma-Aldrich Corporation as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. This officer level position reports directly to Dr. Jai Nagarkatti, Chief Executive Officer. The location of work will be at the Corporate Headquarters in St. Louis, Missouri. Your first day of employment will be coordinated upon acceptance of this offer and is expected to be on our about November 17, 2008. Please advise me as regarding your schedule to communicate your notice to your current employer so I may coordinate internal and external communication of your employment with Sigma-Aldrich.
This offer is contingent upon your successfully passing a drug screen at a facility designated by Sigma-Aldrich, signing the enclosed Sigma-Aldrich Corporation Employment Agreement pertaining to confidentiality and noncompetition, signing Sigma-Aldrich Change-ln-Control and non-compete agreement, a successful academic and prior employment background check, a successful credit history review, a successful SEC review and confirmation of your on-going eligibility to work in the United States. Further, our offer of employment is contingent upon your not being prevented from employment by Sigma-Aldrich due to a noncompete or confidentiality agreement with a current or prior employer.
The key terms of the employment offer follow:
Your rate of base salary will be $18,269.23 per pay period, to be paid every two weeks, which annualized is $475,000. Your performance will be reviewed periodically to determine eligibility for salary adjustments, which typically occur annually. You will receive a car allowance of $692.30 per pay period which annualized totals $18,000.
Beginning in 2009, you will also participate in the Sigma-Aldrich Corporate Bonus plan, which at target (100%) performance provides 65% of your base salary. Performance metrics are determined each year but currently include Operating Income (50%), Sales Growth (30%) and Unit/Individual Objectives (20%). Depending upon performance the actual bonus payout may range from zero up to 150% of target.
You will also be eligible to participate in the Sigma-Aldrich Long Term Incentive plan. Beginning with the 2009 grant you will receive annual equity grants targeted to achieve a value to you of one million dollars ($1,000,000) in the form of stock options, performance shares or other forms of equity as determined by the CEO and Board of Directors. The value of an option will be determined using the Black-Scholes method. In 2008, similarly situated executives received 50% of the equity grant in stock options with a ten-year life and equal prorated vesting over three years (
 1
/
3
each year). The remaining 50% of the equity grant was provided in performance shares vesting on the achievement of three-year performance targets for Revenue Growth and Return on Equity (each weighted 50%). Depending upon performance, the actual performance share payout may range from zero up to 150% of target.
 
Rakesh Sachdev
October 23, 2008
Page 2 of 3
 
In addition, in consideration of equity compensation forfeited due to your resignation from ArvinMeritor in order to commence your employment with Sigma-Aldrich (documentation to be provided within 10 days of our execution of this letter), on the date of hire you will receive a one-time equity and cash grant of approximately one and a half million dollars ($1,500,000). One third (33%) of the value will be provided in at-the-market Sigma-Aldrich Restricted Stock that vests in equal thirds on the anniversary of each of your first three years of employment. The one third (33%) will be provided in at-the-market Stock Options with a ten-year life that vest in equal thirds on the anniversary of each of your first three years of employment. The value of an option will be determined using the Black-Scholes method. The remaining one third (33%) will be delivered in two equal cash payments on the anniversary of your first and second year of your date of hire. In the event you voluntarily resign your employment all unvested restricted shares, options and cash shall be forfeited to the Company. In the event your employment is terminated for reasons other than cause or upon your death or disability, as defined in the 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan as amended and restated on May 6, 2006, the remaining unvested portion of the one-time equity and cash grant ($1,500,000) will immediately vest and be payable to you according to the terms of the plan.
You will be eligible to participate in our employee benefit plans as all other similarly situated executives including life insurance, medical benefits, and our retirement/pension plan when you have completed 30 days of employment. The Company covers the majority of the cost of these benefits for our employees. As a USA based employee you will also be eligible to participate in our 401(k) retirement savings plan on the first of the month following completion of 30 days of employment.
As a member of the management team, beginning in 2009 you will be eligible to participate in our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) and our optional Flexible Deferred Compensation Plan. Currently the Company contributes 6% of base salary to the SERP each year, typically in December.
Beginning in 2009, you will be granted fifteen (15) days of vacation per year. Once you are eligible for more than fifteen (15) days vacation in accordance with the Sigma-Aldrich vacation policy, you will be governed by that policy.
The compensation and benefit programs referred to above are designed to attract, retain and provide performance incentives to our management team. The programs are subject to modification, replacement and termination at the discretion of the CEO and Board of Directors and may require shareholder approval. The applicable plan documents or insurance plans govern all interpretations and implementation of the programs.
To align management with the interests of shareholders all managers are required to buy and hoid Company stock as a percentage of their annual base salary. As a senior executive you will be required to buy and hold Sigma-Aldrich stock equal in value to two (2) times your annual base salary accumulated ratably over a five-year period beginning in 2009. Please note that unvested equity grants, including performance shares, restricted shares, and stock options, and unexercised stock options do not count toward satisfying your shareholding requirement. You
Rakesh Sachdev
October 23, 2008
Page 3 of 3
 
will be able to meet part of this requirement through share holdings in your 401(k) plan and awards you may receive under the stock option and performance share plans. Before you distribute your current 401(k) savings please discuss rollover options that may allow you to meet all or a portion of your shareholding requirement within the savings plan.
Sigma-Aldrich will pay reasonable expenses for the relocation of your family from Bloomfield, Michigan to St. Louis, Missouri consistent with the Company's Relocation Benefits plan. Please refer to the accompanying relocation benefits information. In the event that you resign your employment with Sigma-Aldrich prior to the anniversary of two years of employment, you are required to reimburse Sigma-Aldrich for expenses associated with your relocation. The reimbursement obligation lapses after the anniversary of your second year of employment with Sigma-Aldrich. A Client Services Representative from SIRVA Relocation will contact you regarding your relocation.
In the unlikely event your employment is terminated for reasons other than cause the Company will provide severance benefits of twenty four (24) months of base salary if terminated in the first 12 months of employment; twelve (12) months of base salary if terminated in the second 12 months of employment; and six (6) months of base salary thereafter.
In the event of a Change In Control (CIC), in lieu of normal severance you will be provided CIC severance benefits equal to three times base and target bonus subject to all applicable taxes (no gross-up) and accelerated vesting of outstanding equity grants as defined in the standard CIC agreement provided to senior executives.
In accepting the offer, Sigma-Aldrich expects that you will devote your full-time effort to the performance of your duties and, during employment, will not engage, directly or indirectly, in any other business which would conflict with the terms of your Employment Agreement with Sigma-Aldrich. Please sign the enclosed Employment Agreements, returning one copy and retaining one for your file.
Please acknowledge your understanding of these terms with your signature and return to my attention through the mail or via Confidential FAX at 314 236 8724.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10(b)
 
 
 
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (the "Company") is presently engaged throughout the United States and the World in the business of providing specialty chemicals and other products. I have been employed by the Company and/or desire to be employed by Company on an at-will basis in connection with the business of the Company. I understand that the position(s) in which I will or may be employed require(s) me to have and develop substantial contacts with customers of Company, to directly or indirectly manage other Company employees and their customer relationships, and/or to have access to Confidential Information (defined below) and trade secrets of Company; all of which otherwise would not be available or provided to me unless I enter into this Agreement. The Company desires to employ or continue to employ me, subject to and upon the terms described below, including a requirement that I sign this Agreement and deliver it to Company; and I am willing and desire to sign and deliver this Agreement in order to secure or continue employment with Company on the terms described below. Accordingly I agree as follows:
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
I recognize that the Company is engaged in the business of research, development, manufacture and sale of chemicals, chemical products and allied activities, which business requires for its successful operation the fullest security of its Confidential Information of which I will acquire knowledge during the course of my employment.
As used in this agreement, "Confidential Information" means all technical and business information of the Company, or which is learned or acquired by the Company from others with whom the Company has a business relationship in which, and as a result of which, similar information is revealed to the Company, whether patentable or not, which is of a confidential, trade secret and/or proprietary character and which is either developed by me (alone
or with others) or to which I shall have had access during my employment. Confidential Information in any case shall include all data, designs, plans, notes, memoranda, work sheets, formulas, processes, patents, pricing, production methods and techniques, financial information, information regarding costs, margins and operating unit financial performance, marketing and business plans and strategies, pricing strategies, and customer and supplier lists and shall include information concerning the customers, prospects and employees of the Company and its affiliates (including but not limited to salaries and expertise, and customer preferences, contact information, key contacts, credit and purchasing history, and purchasing requirements and preferences).
I shall use my best efforts and diligence both during and after my employment with the Company, regardless of how, when or why my employment ends to protect the confidential, trade secret and/or proprietary character of all Confidential Information. I shall never, directly or indirectly, use (for myself or another) or disclose any Confidential Information, for so long as it shall remain proprietary or protectible as confidential or trade secret information, except as may be necessary and authorized for the performance of my duties for the Company.
I shall promptly deliver to the Company, at the termination of my employment or at any other time at the Company's request, without retaining any copies, all documents and other material in my possession relating, directly or indirectly, to any Confidential Information, including any information maintained on a non Company computer system.
Each of my obligations in this section shall also apply to the confidential, trade secret and proprietary information learned or acquired by me during my employment from others with whom the Company has a business relationship.
 
COMPETITIVE ACTIVITY
I shall not, directly or indirectly (whether as owner, partner, consultant, employee or otherwise), at any time during the period of my employment by the Company and for a period of two years following termination of my employment, regardless of how, when or why my employment ends, and whether my employment is terminated by the Company with cause or without cause, engage in, provide any services or advice to, contribute my knowledge to or invest in any business that is engaged in any work or activity that involves a product, process, service or development which is then competitive with, the same as or similar to a product, process, service or development on which I worked or with respect to which I had access to Confidential Information while with the Company anywhere the Company markets or sells any such product or service.
Following expiration of said two-year period, I shall continue to be obligated under the "Confidential Information" section of this Agreement not to use or to disclose Confidential Information so long as it shall remain proprietary or protectible as confidential or trade secret information.
Following termination of my employment for any reason, I agree to advise the Company of my new employer, work location and job responsibilities within ten days after accepting new employment. I further agree to keep the Company so advised of any change in my employment for two years following termination of my employment with the Company.
I understand that it is not the intention of this Agreement to prevent me from earning a livelihood, and I agree nothing in this Agreement would prevent me from earning a livelihood utilizing my general purchasing, sales, professional or technical skills in any of the hospitals, businesses, research or manufacturing facilities of companies which are not directly or indirectly in competition with the Company.
I agree that while employed by the Company and for a period of two (2) years following termination of employment, regardless of how, when or why my employment ends, and whether my employment is terminated by the Company with cause or without cause, I shall not in any manner or in any capacity, directly or indirectly, for myself or any other person or entity, actually or attempt: (a) to solicit or encourage any customer or prospective customer of the Company to purchase any service or product of a type offered by or competitive with any
product or service provided by the Company, or to reduce the amount or level of business purchased by such customer from the Company, or sell any such products to any such customer or prospect; or (b) take away or procure for the benefit of any competitor of the Company, any business of a type provided by or competitive with a product or service offered by the Company,; or (c) to interfere with the Company's relationship with any customer or supplier of the Company.
The term "customer" shall mean any person or entity to whom the Company has sold any products (a) in the case of on-going employment, during the twenty-four (24) months immediately preceding any dispute under this paragraph and, (b) in the case of employment having ended, the twenty-four (24) calendar months preceding termination of employment; and whom I contacted or dealt with (or whom someone under my direct or indirect management contacted or dealt with) in connection with my employment or whose purchasing needs I learned about by reason of my access to Confidential Information. The term "potential customer" shall mean any person or entity who, during the applicable twenty-four (24) month period described above has (a) been involved in discussions or negotiations with the Company for products sold by the Company; (b) initiated contact with the Company in order to obtain information regarding products sold by the Company; (c) been the subject of repeated personal contacts by me and/or any other Company employee for purposes of soliciting business for the Company; or (d) been the subject of the Company's efforts to gather, learn or evaluate information which may help the Company obtain any future order from such person or entity; and whom I contacted or dealt with (or whom someone under my direct or indirect management contacted or dealt with) in connection with my employment or whose purchasing needs I learned about by reason of my access to Confidential Information.
During my Company employment and the one (1) year period immediately following the termination of that employment, I will not directly or indirectly solicit the employment of, recruit, employ, cause to be employed or hired, entice away, or establish a business with, any then current employee of Company (other than personnel who are employed in a clerical or maintenance position) or any other such person who was employed by Company within the twelve (12) months immediately prior to such employment or establishment, or suggest to or discuss with any such person the discontinuation of that person's status or employment with Company, or
 
such person's employment or participation in any activity in competition with Company.
INVENTIONS
I agree and understand that "Inventions" shall mean any inventions, discoveries, ideas, enhancements, derivative works, developments and/or improvements, whether or not patentable, and works of authorship, whether or not copyrightable, which are conceived, developed or reduced to practice, or caused to be conceived, developed, or reduced to practice during the term of my employment with the Company or utilizing any Company resources.
I agree to make prompt and complete written disclosure to the Company, and to hold in trust for the sole right, benefit and use of the Company, any and all Inventions, and I further agree to assign and do hereby assign to the Company all right, title and interest in and to all Inventions and intellectual property, including patents (U.S. and foreign) covering said Inventions, which shall be and remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company; provided, however, that I shall not be obligated to assign any Invention or intellectual property for which no equipment, supplies, facility, or Confidential Information of the Company was used and which was developed entirely on my own time, and (a) which does not relate to the actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development of the Company and (b) which does not result from any work performed by me for the Company.
I shall promptly disclose to the Company all Inventions (as defined herein), which I may conceive or make (alone or with others) during my employment, whether or not during working hours, and which, directly or indirectly,
 
 
 
I hereby assign to the Company or its designee, without further compensation, all of the right, title and interest in all such ideas, inventions or discoveries in all countries of the world.
 
I understand that this Agreement shall not apply to inventions or discoveries made or conceived of and set forth in a tangible medium of expression by me prior to my employment with the Company. I agree that I have identified on Exhibit A, beginning on page             , hereof, a complete list of all such discoveries made or conceived of prior to the commencement of employment. (If there are no such discoveries designated, I acknowledge that I have neither made nor conceived of any such discoveries as of the time of employment.) I agree not to assert that any discoveries were made or conceived of prior to employment by the Company except as enumerated in Exhibit A.
Without further compensation but at the Company's expense, I shall give all testimony and execute all patent and copyright applications, rights of priority, assignments and other documents and in general do all lawful things requested of me by the Company to enable the Company to obtain, maintain and enforce protection of such Inventions in all countries of the world. However, should I render any of these services during a two-year period following termination of my employment, I shall be compensated at a rate per hour equal to the basic salary I received from the Company at the time of termination and shall be reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in rendering the services.
In the event the Company is unable for any reason whatsoever to secure my signature to any lawful and necessary documents required to fully effectuate my obligations herein, I hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the Company and its duly authorized officers and agents as agent and attorney-in-fact, to act for and in my behalf and stead to do all lawfully permitted acts to fully effectuate my obligations, including those required to further the assignment, prosecution and issuance of letters patent or copyright thereon with the same legal force and effect as if executed by me. I hereby waive and quit-claims to the Company any and all claims of any nature whatsoever which I may now have or may hereafter have to sue and collect for infringement of any patent or copyright resulting from any such application
General
If I am employed by an affiliate of the Company and have not entered into a superseding agreement with my new employer covering the subject matter of this Agreement, then this Agreement shall continue in effect and my new
 
employer shall be termed "the Company" for all purposes hereunder and shall have the right to enforce this Agreement as my employer. In the event of any subsequent employment by the Company or any other affiliate, my new employer shall succeed to all rights under this Agreement so long as such employer shall be an affiliate of the Company and so long as this Agreement has not been superseded.
As used in this Agreement, an "affiliate" of the Company shall mean any parent or subsidiary of the Company, and company owned or controlled by any parent of the Company as well as any subsidiary of such companies and any company or corporation with which the Company has a contractual or ongoing business relationship which requires the Company and such other company or corporation to agree to non competition or non-disclosure covenants similar to or the same as those contained herein.
I hereby consent and agree to the Company assigning or transferring its rights and obligations under this Agreement for any reason at any time in the future to any other person or entity. Neither this Agreement nor any of my obligations under this Agreement may be assigned or delegated by me. I also understand and acknowledge that my employment with the Company will be "at-will," which means that I or the Company may terminate my employment with the Company for any reason or no reason at all, subject to the following: The Company and I shall have the right to terminate my employment at any time and for any reason by giving at least 14 days written notice to the other party; provided, however, the Company may terminate my employment without notice at any time for any cause deemed by it to be a breach of my employment duties or of any of my obligations under this Agreement. My execution of this Agreement, and agreement to its terms, does not alter the at-will status of my employment with Company nor entitle me to any payment, or particular salary, commission, bonus, method of compensation, commission arrangement, benefits, job, position, term of employment, location of employment, working conditions or opportunities. I agree that all post-employment obligations contained in this Agreement continue in full force and effect whether my employment is terminated with or without cause by me or Company, or there is any change in any terms or conditions of my employment, any products or services offered or sold by Company (or any level of business at any particular location or office), any position held by me, any location where I work, or any compensation, commission plan or benefits provided to me, even if I consider such a change to be adverse. No level or
amount of compensation, office activity, or any particular position or place of work, is promised or guaranteed. No promises or guaranties have been made to me to sign this Agreement or work for Company, which are not set out in this Agreement. And, in the event of a conflict between the terms of the Employment Offer Letter and this agreement, the terms of the Employment Offer Letter control.
In order to preserve Company's rights under this Agreement, Company is authorized to advise any third party with whom I may become employed or enter into any business or contractual relationship with, or whom I may contact for any such purpose, of the existence of this Agreement and its terms, and the Company shall not be liable for doing so.
I hereby acknowledge that damages for the violation of the provisions contained in this Agreement will not give full and sufficient relief to the Company, and I agree that in the event of any violation of any of said provisions the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief against violation thereof, without any bond being required for such injunctive relief, in addition to any other rights it may have by reason of said violation.
I further agree and understand that the Company shall be entitled to the reasonable costs and attorneys' fees the Company incurs attempting to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement.
This Agreement is deemed to be accepted and entered into in the State of Missouri and shall be interpreted under the internal laws of the State of Missouri without reference to conflicts of law principles. In any suit to enforce this Agreement, venue and jurisdiction is proper in the St. Louis County Circuit Court and (if federal jurisdiction exists) the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, and I waive all objections to jurisdiction in any such forum and any defense or claim that either such forum is not the most convenient forum.
If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid in any respect, it shall not affect the validity of any other provision of this Agreement. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unreasonable or unenforceable as to time, scope or otherwise, it shall not be rendered invalid and unenforceable but instead shall automatically be amended and limited to such lesser time period, or to such lesser degree, extent and/or scope as will grant
 
the Company the maximum enforceable restriction on my activities permitted by applicable law.
I represent, warrant and agree that I: (i) am not a party to any agreement, subject to any court order, or under any obligation to another person, business or entity which would in any manner prevent, limit or impair my ability to fully perform any duties for Company or to engage in any business currently engaged in by Company; and (ii) have not disclosed and will not disclose to the Company, nor use for the benefit of any Company entity, any trade secrets of any person, business or entity who was one of my former employers, unless and until such trade secrets have become lawfully available to the public or to Company's industry or unless such disclosure is permitted by agreement with or by the consent of any such former employer; and I have been instructed by the Company not to do so and not to use or provide to the Company any documents or property of any former employer.
Neither this Agreement nor any of its terms may be added to, amended, or waived except in a writing signed by me and an executive officer of the Company referencing this Agreement. This Agreement is in addition to and not in lieu of any other agreements entered into by me previously or subsequently concerning inventions, confidentiality, non competition or non solicitation.
The Company's failure to exercise its rights to enforce the provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected by the existence or non existence of any other similar agreement for anyone else employed by the Company or by the Company's failure to exercise any of its rights under any such agreement.
 
This Agreement is signed in duplicate, as of the 27
th
day of October, 2008.
SIGMA-ALDRICH CORPORATION
 
Douglas W. Rau, Vice President  Human Resources
Typed Name and Title
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Sigma-Aldrich is pleased to announce the appointment of Rakesh Sachdev as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) along with other organization changes that are designed to deepen the bench strength of its management team and enable the implementation of its initiatives to drive growth at above market rates in 2009-2011.
ST. LOUIS, MO, October 30, 2008
President and CEO Jai Nagarkatti commented, "We are very pleased to be able to add such a talented professional as Rakesh to our organization. His unique combination of financial, operational and global experience makes him an ideal addition to the Sigma-Aldrich team. The other leadership changes announced today are expected to position our management team to build on the solid foundation of top line growth and industry leading profitability and facilitate the implementation of our new and exciting initiatives that are expected to drive our growth over the next three years."
Mr. Sachdev (age 52) will join Sigma-Aldrich as Vice President and CFO effective November 17, 2008. He succeeds Sigma-Aldrich's long-time CFO Mike Hogan who announced his plans to retire earlier this year.
Prior to his appointment at Sigma-Aldrich, Mr. Sachdev was employed by ArvinMeritor, most recently as Senior Vice President and President Asia Pacific and previously in diverse leadership roles including Senior Vice President Corporate Development and Strategy, Corporate Controller, Interim CFO, and other general management roles. Prior to his employment with ArvinMeritor, Sachdev served as CFO for one of Cummins, Inc.'s largest business units. Mr. Sachdev earned his Masters in Business Administration degree from Indiana University, a Masters degree in Engineering from the University of Illinois and his Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering from the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi. He also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Regal Beloit (NYSE: RBC).
In addition to the CFO announcement, Sigma-Aldrich is also announcing other promotions to and organization changes in its current management team that are effective January 1, 2009 to further develop its global talent and align the leadership team with its strategic objectives.
 
Karen Miller (age 51), currently the Controller, will be promoted to the newly created position of Vice President-Strategy & Corporate Development and will report to Jai Nagarkatti. In her new role, Miller will lead our efforts to identify growth opportunities through new ventures, alliances, partnerships, continue to refine our market intelligence capabilities and develop more robust strategic planning. She joined Sigma-Aldrich in 1997 as Controller. Prior to Sigma-Aldrich, she held financial leadership positions with Allergan, Inc. and KPMG. Karen earned her Bachelors degree in Business Management from Tulane University and recently completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School. Karen will continue to support the Finance function during the next few months to ensure a smooth and orderly transition. In a related announcement, Kevin Krosley (age 44), previously the Company's Vice President of Process Improvement, will assume the role of Vice President-New Ventures Group and will report to Miller.
Dave Julien (age 54), previously President-Research Specialties, will take on the newly created role of President-Supply Chain to accelerate the development of the Company's global integrated supply chain. This move emphasizes the strategic importance of its world-class ability to procure, produce and deliver the highest quality products quickly, effectively and efficiently to our customers around the world and to realize the previously communicated profit margin expansion.
Frank Wicks (age 55), currently President-SAFC will assume the role of President-Research Specialties & Research Essentials. Under his leadership both units will continue to respond to the needs of their unique customer segments and will also accelerate internal synergies in marketing, business development and support services for these business units.
Gilles Cottier (age 50), currently President-Research Essentials, will become President-SAFC. Cottier's in-depth understanding of our global markets and the development of customer responsive organizations will be an excellent fit with the customer solution driven focus of our SAFC business unit.
Carl Turza (age 49), Chief Information Officer, will take on added responsibilities for Internet based initiatives to maintain our market-leading position on the web and accelerate new e-commerce opportunities. He will report directly to the CEO.
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific and genomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 36 countries and has 8,000 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating our Customers' success through leadership in and For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award winning web site at .
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science, High Technology
Service.
www.sigma-aldrich.com
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to future performance, goals, strategic actions and initiatives and similar intentions and beliefs, and other statements regarding the Company's expectations, goals, beliefs, intentions and the like regarding future sales, earnings, acquisitions and other matters. These statements involve assumptions regarding Company operations, investments and acquisitions and conditions in the markets the Company serves. Although the Company believes its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements
Cautionary Statement:
 
are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in this news release, due to, but not limited to, such factors as (1) changes in pricing and the competitive environment, (2) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, (3) dependence on uninterrupted manufacturing operations, (4) changes in the regulatory environment in which the Company operates, (5) exposure to litigation, including product liability claims, (6) changes in research funding and the success of research and development activities, (7) the ability to maintain adequate quality standards, (8) reliance on third party package delivery services, (9) the impact of acquisitions and success in integrating and obtaining projected results from the acquisitions, and (10) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates. A further discussion of the Company's risk factors can be found in Item 1A of the Company's Form 10-K report for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 


