FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20081231101314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following a review of currently prevailing terms of change in control agreements offered to executives of public companies, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the execution, effective December 30, 2008, of the revised change in control agreements between the Company and some of its executives, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO"), Chief Financial Officer and other executive officers, other than David R. Harvey, listed in the Summary Compensation Table included in the Company's most recent proxy statement filed with the SEC (collectively, the "Named Executive Officers"). The agreements replace existing agreements for the same group of people, although in the case of the CEO, the agreement only replaces the existing change in control provisions contained in his existing employment agreement. While the new agreements differ in certain respects from the existing agreements, as described below, the Company believes that the aggregate cost to the Company would be substantially the same in the event of a change in control.
Description of New Change in Control Provisions
The initial term of each respective agreement is from December 30, 2008 until December 31, 2009, and thereafter shall continue in effect for successive periods of one year unless either the Company or the executive gives written notice of intent to terminate the agreement at least six months prior to the expiration of the then current term, provided that the Company is precluded from giving notice of intent to terminate within six months of a change in control (as described below) or at any time at which a change in control with an identified party is under serious consideration. The new agreements continue not to provide for any excise tax gross-up and now require that a breach by an executive of the non-disclosure or non-compete provisions would relieve the company of its obligation to make, and require the executive to repay, certain termination payments. Some of the other changes effected by the new agreements are described below under "Comparison with Old Agreements."
For the purposes of the agreements, the term "change in control" is defined to include:
 
 
 
 
In the event of a change in control:
 
 
In addition, if a change in control occurs and the executive's employment with the Company is terminated (x) by the Company without "cause" (as defined in the agreement) or (y) by the executive for "good reason" (as defined in the agreement), in each case within the six-month period prior to, or within the two-year period following the change in control, a "Qualifying Termination" has occurred. Under such circumstances, the executive will receive:
 
 
 
 
 
payable immediately upon the occurrence of a Qualifying Termination or as soon as administratively possible thereafter or, if the executive is a specified employee within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, on the first day of the seventh month following the date of termination or, if earlier, the date of the executive's death, and
 
In connection with the termination payments described above, the executive agrees (x) to protect the Company's confidential information which was acquired in connection with or as a result of the performance of the executive's services for the Company and (y) not to, directly or indirectly, compete against the Company during his employment with the Company and for a two-year period following any termination of employment.
The foregoing summary of the provisions of the form of change in control agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the actual agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(a) and is incorporated into this current report by reference. This agreement is the same as the form of all of the agreements with the executives, with the exception of that with Chief Executive Officer Jai P. Nagarkatti, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(b) and is incorporated into this current report by reference.
Additionally, an amendment to the Employment Agreement with President and Chief Executive Officer Jai P. Nagarkatti was also executed. The amendment updates the original agreement to reflect recent changes in the tax laws governing nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. The amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(d) and is incorporated into this current report by reference.
Comparison with Old Agreements
As a result of the changes, the CEO and the other Named Executive Officers would all receive the same benefits under the change in control agreements. The major economic and other changes effected by the new agreements include, among others, the following:
CEO Change in Control Agreement
 
 
 
 
Other Named Executive Officer Change in Control Agreement
 
 
 
The foregoing is only a comparison of some of the differences between the old and new agreements and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the actual agreements. A copy of the new change in control agreement
 
and the CEO's change in control agreement are attached hereto as Exhibit 10(a) and Exhibit 10(b), respectively, and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the CEO's existing employment agreement and amendment to the CEO's employment agreement is attached as Exhibit 10(c) and listed as Exhibit 10(d) respectively. The old change in control agreement with the other Named Executive Officers is listed as Exhibit 10(e) and incorporated herein by reference. Further, the Company's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 13, 2008 contains a description of the existing CEO employment agreement and the form of old change in control agreement with the other Named Executive Officers under the captions "Employment Agreements  Employment Agreement with Dr. Nagarkatti" and "Employment Agreements with Other Named Executive Officers," respectively, which descriptions are incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d)
Exhibits
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 31, 2008
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 10(a)
This Agreement, dated as of this day of December 2008, is by and between ("Executive") and Sigma-Aldrich Corporation and any successor to its business and/or assets ("Company").
                    
                                        
WHEREAS, the Company considers it essential to the best interests of the Company that its key employees be encouraged to remain with the Company and to devote full attention to the Company's business in the event that any third party expresses its intention to take action which could result in a change in control of the Company; and
WHEREAS, Executive serves as a key employee of the Company;
NOW, THEREFORE, to encourage Executive's continued, undivided attention, dedication and services to the Company and the availability of Executive's advice and counsel notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a change in control of the Company, and to induce Executive to remain in the employ of the Company, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and Executive agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The portion of the Termination Payment described in subsections (b) and (c) shall be paid to an Executive who is a Specified Employee on the first day of the seventh month following the date Executive terminates employment with the Company, or, if earlier, the date Executive dies following the Qualifying Termination. Any Termination Payment made to an Executive who is a Specified Employee that is to be delayed pursuant to this Section 6 shall be held in a Rabbi Trust with reasonable interest accruing from the date of the Qualifying Termination until payment to Executive.
If the Company determines that the termination of employment causing the Qualifying Termination constitutes an involuntary separation from service as defined by Section 409A of the Code, the sum of the Termination Payment described in subsections (b) and (c) and the "Severance Payments" shall, to the extent it does not exceed the Applicable Amount, be paid without regard to such six month delay.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The party seeking arbitration shall notify the other party in writing and request the AAA to submit a list of 5 or 7 potential arbitrators. In the event the parties do not agree upon an arbitrator, each party shall, in turn, strike one arbitrator from the list, the Corporation having the first strike, until only one arbitrator remains, who shall arbitrate the dispute. The arbitration hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the selection of an arbitrator or at the earliest date thereafter that the arbitrator is available.
The administrative costs of the arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties; however, the prevailing party in any such arbitration shall be entitled to a recovery of his/its reasonable attorneys fees. For purposes of this agreement, the prevailing party shall be the party that substantially prevails in the action after the resolution of all claims. The arbitrator shall retain jurisdiction of the dispute to determine any prevailing party issues.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Change in Control Agreement this day of December 2008.
                    
 
 

Exhibit 10(b)
This Agreement, dated as of this 30th day of December 2008, is by and between Jai P. Nagarkatti ("Executive") and Sigma-Aldrich Corporation and any successor to its business and/or assets ("Company").
WHEREAS, the Company considers it essential to the best interests of the Company that its key employees be encouraged to remain with the Company and to devote full attention to the Company's business in the event that any third party expresses its intention to take action which could result in a change in control of the Company; and
WHEREAS, Executive serves as a key employee of the Company;
NOW, THEREFORE, to encourage Executive's continued, undivided attention, dedication and services to the Company and the availability of Executive's advice and counsel notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a change in control of the Company, and to induce Executive to remain in the employ of the Company, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and Executive agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The portion of the Termination Payment described in subsections (b) and (c) shall be paid to an Executive who is a Specified Employee on the first day of the seventh month following the date Executive terminates employment with the Company, or, if earlier, the date Executive dies following the Qualifying Termination. Any Termination Payment made to an Executive who is a Specified Employee that is to be delayed pursuant to this Section 6 shall be held in a Rabbi Trust with reasonable interest accruing from the date of the Qualifying Termination until payment to Executive.
If the Company determines that the termination of employment causing the Qualifying Termination constitutes an involuntary separation from service as defined by Section 409A of the Code, the sum of the Termination Payment described in subsections (b) and (c) and the "Severance Payments" shall, to the extent it does not exceed the Applicable Amount, be paid without regard to such six month delay.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The party seeking arbitration shall notify the other party in writing and request the AAA to submit a list of 5 or 7 potential arbitrators. In the event the parties do not agree upon an arbitrator, each party shall, in turn, strike one arbitrator from the list, the Corporation having the first strike, until only one arbitrator remains, who shall arbitrate the dispute. The arbitration hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the selection of an arbitrator or at the earliest date thereafter that the arbitrator is available.
The administrative costs of the arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties; however, the prevailing party in any such arbitration shall be entitled to a recovery of his/its reasonable attorneys fees. For purposes of this agreement, the prevailing party shall be the party that substantially prevails in the action after the resolution of all claims. The arbitrator shall retain jurisdiction of the dispute to determine any prevailing party issues.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If to Executive:
Jai P. Nagarkatti
14967 Straub Hill Lane
Chesterfield, MO 63017
 
If to the Company:
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation
ATTN: General Counsel
3050 Spruce Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 286-7442
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Change in Control Agreement this 30th day of December 2008.
 
 

Exhibit 10(d)
WHEREAS, the Sigma-Aldrich Corporation ("Company") and Jai Nagarkatti ("Chief Executive Officer") previously entered into an employment agreement ("Agreement") effective as of January 1, 2006; and
WHEREAS, the Company and Chief Executive Officer retained the right to amend the Agreement in Section 3.10 thereof;
WHEREAS, the Plan has been administered in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and other guidance promulgated thereunder ("Code Section 409A"); and
WHEREAS, the Company and Chief Executive Officer desire to amend the Agreement, effective December 31, 2008, to reflect documentary compliance with Code Section 409A.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the Company and Chief Executive Officer hereby agree to amend the Agreement, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:
1. Section 1.1(i) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
"(i) "Good Reason" when used with reference to a voluntary termination by Executive from his employment with Company, shall mean (i) a material reduction in Executive's base salary as in effect on the date hereof, or as the same may be increased from time to time, during the Employment Period; or (ii) a material reduction in the Executive's authorities, duties, or responsibilities during the Employment Period; or notice of termination."
2. Section 2.4(c)(iii) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
"(iii) In the event that the Executive is determined to be a specified employee in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder for purposes of any severance pay payment under this subsection (c), such severance payments shall begin on the first payroll date that is more than six months following the date of separation from service, but only to the extent that such payments do not satisfy either the short term deferral exception to Code Section 409A described in 26 CFR 1.409A-1(b)(4) ("Short Term Deferral Exception") or to the extent such payments do not satisfy the Short Term Deferral Exception, the involuntary termination exception to Code Section 409A described in 26 CFR 1.409A-1(b)(9). At all times, the right to all such installment payments made under this subsection (c) shall be treated as the right to a series of separate payments within the meaning of 26 CFR 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii)."
3. The last sentence of Section 2.4(d) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
"Good Reason will only exist if the Executive provides the Company with written notice of Good Reason within a period not to exceed 90 days after the initial existence of the condition alleged to give rise to Good Reason, the Company fails to remedy the condition within 30 days of such notice,
and such Good Reason termination is within two years following the initial existence of one or more conditions giving rise to Good Reason. In the event that the Executive is determined to be a specified employee in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder for purposes of any severance pay payment under this subsection (c), such severance payments shall begin on the first payroll date that is more than six months following the date of separation from service, but only to the extent that such payments do not satisfy either the short term deferral exception to Code Section 409A described in 26 CFR 1.409A-1(b)(4) ("Short Term Deferral Exception") or to the extent such payments do not satisfy the Short Term Deferral Exception, the involuntary termination exception to Code Section 409A described in 26 CFR 1.409A-1(b)(9). At all times, the right to all such installment payments made under this subsection (d) shall be treated as the right to a series of separate payments within the meaning of 26 CFR 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii)."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment to the Agreement this 30th day of December, 2008.
 


