FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20080319061726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 19, 2008, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation ("the Company") held its Annual Business Review with the financial community. Topics included updates on performance and growth initiatives. Presenters included President & CEO Jai Nagarkatti; CFO Mike Hogan; Treasurer Kirk Richter; Business Unit Presidents Gilles Cottier, Dave Julien, David Smoller and Frank Wicks. A copy of the slide presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
The call was webcast by CCBN and can be accessed at Sigma-Adrich Corporation's web site at , although the Company reserves the right to discontinue its availability at any time. The webcast was also distributed over CCBN's Investor Distribution Network to both institutional and individual investors. Individual investors can listen to the call through CCBN's individual investor center at or by visiting any of the investor sites in CCBN's Individual Investor Network. Institutional investors can access the call via CCBN's password-protected event management site, StreetEvents ().
http://ir.sigmaaldrich.com
www.fulldisclosure.com
www.streetevents.com
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of such section, nor shall such information or exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(d) . See Exhibit Index.
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 19, 2008
 
 



