FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20080508151222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendment to the Employment Agreement with Dr. Harvey
On May 6, 2008, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), executed an amendment ("Amendment") to the original employment agreement ("Agreement") previously entered into with David R. Harvey ("Chairman") effective as of January 1, 2006. The Amendment extended the term of the Chairman's employment for a one-year term beginning on the date of the 2008 Annual General Meeting date and terminating on the date of the 2009 Annual General Meeting. All other terms and conditions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect during this one-year extension. The term may be extended by the parties by written agreement for successive additional one-year periods. Under the Agreement, Dr. Harvey will serve as the Company's Chairman or in any other capacity, as determined by the Board of Directors. The original employment agreement was filed in a Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 16, 2006, incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following Exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
WHEREAS, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation ("Company") and David Harvey ("Executive") previously entered into an Executive Employment Agreement ("Agreement") dated January 1, 2006 and
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire to amend the Agreement in certain respects;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual agreements contained herein, the Company and Executive hereby agree to amend the Agreement as follows:
The first sentence of Section 2.4(a) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment as of the date first written above.
 


