FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20090318061141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 18, 2009, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation ("the Company") held its Annual Business Review with the financial community. Topics included updates on performance and growth initiatives. Presenters included President & CEO Jai Nagarkatti; CFO Rakesh Sachdev; Treasurer Kirk Richter; CIO Carl Turza; President Supply Chain Dave Julien; Vice President Strategy and Corporate Development Karen Miller; Vice President of Sales Gerrit van den Dool; Vice President Sales & Operational-International Eric Green; Business Unit Presidents Gilles Cottier, Dave Smoller and Frank Wicks. A copy of the slide presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
This webcast can be accessed at Sigma-Aldrich Corporation's web site at .
http://investor.sigmaaldrich.com/
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of such section, nor shall such information or exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) . See Exhibit Index.
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 18, 2009
 
 



