FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20091006084516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 2, 2009, Sigma-Aldrich announced the appointment of Dr. George M. Church as a Director of the Company effective on that date. Dr. Church (age 55) is a Professor of Genetics at the Harvard Medical School and Director of the Center for Computational Genetics in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Dr. Church will serve as an independent, non-employee Director, and is not expected to be appointed to any standing Board Committee.
There are no arrangements between Dr. Church and any other person pursuant to which Dr. Church was elected to serve as a Director. The Company is not aware of any transaction, proposed transaction or series of either, since January 1, 2008, in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000,in which the Company is or will be a participant and Dr. Church has or will have a direct or indirect material interest.
As a non-employee Director, Dr. Church will receive the same compensation paid to other non-employee Directors of the Company in accordance with the policies and procedures previously approved by the Board for non-employee Directors as disclosed under the caption "Director Compensation and Transactions" in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 13, 2009.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 2, 2009, Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing the appointment of Dr. George M. Church as a Director of the Company effective on that date. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. The description of the press release contained herein is qualified in its entirety by the full text of such exhibit.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following Exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 6, 2009
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
FORWARD INQUIRIES TO:
Kirk Richter at Sigma-Aldrich
314-286-8004
kirk.richter@sial.com
The Board of Directors of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (Nasdaq: SIAL) has elected Dr. George M. Church as a Director of the Company. Dr. Church (age 55) is a Professor of Genetics at the Harvard Medical School and Director of the Center for Computational Genetics in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Dr. Church pioneered technology innovations early in the development of key fields in Chemistry and Biomedicine with over 10 U.S. patents granted and several pending. His work in the first direct Genomic Sequencing and Molecular Multiplexing technology has resulted in a new paradigm in biological research.
St. Louis, MO, October 2, 2009 
In announcing Dr. Church's election to the Board, Jai Nagarkatti, Chairman, President and CEO of Sigma-Aldrich said, "We are extremely pleased to have Dr. George Church join our board. His broad background in science and research will help Sigma-Aldrich in its efforts to enhance an already strong leadership position in Life Science and High Technology."
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading Life Science and High Technology company. Our chemical and biochemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. The Company has customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals, and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 38 countries and has 7,800 employees providing excellent service worldwide. Sigma-Aldrich is committed to Accelerating Customer Success through Innovation and Leadership in Life Science, High Technology and Service. For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit its award-winning Web site at .
About Sigma-Aldrich:
http://www.sigma-aldrich.com


