FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20090211083857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 11, 2009, Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter operating results for the period ended December 31, 2008. This press release and certain supplemental information are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
Item 7.01     Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 11, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release regarding the financial outlook for the fourth quarter ending December 31, 2008. This press release and certain supplemental information are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 11, 2009
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
St Louis, MO, February 11, 2009  Sigma-Aldrich, a leading Life Science and High Technology company, reported that its fourth quarter 2008 diluted EPS grew by 6% to $0.68 from $0.64 in the same quarter of 2007.
Reported sales of $510 million in the fourth quarter 2008 declined by 4% compared to 2007. Excluding the impact of currency, sales in the fourth quarter grew 3% from a year ago. Fourth quarter organic sales for the Company's Research business grew 4%, while the Specialty Fine Chemicals business (SAFC) organic sales were in-line with prior year level.
Operating margin in the fourth quarter 2008 increased by 30 basis points to 22.5% from the same period of 2007, reflecting benefits from process improvements, global supply chain initiatives, cost containment initiatives and recent strategic pricing actions.
For the full year 2008, reported sales grew by 8% compared with 2007, to a record $2.2 billion. Excluding the benefit of currency and acquisitions, overall sales grew by 5%, with Research and SAFC sales up by 6% and 3%, respectively. Reported diluted EPS for 2008 increased by 13% from 2007 to a record $2.65.
Other 2008 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2009 Outlook on Sales Growth and EPS
:
 
 
Dividend:
At a meeting held on February 10, 2009, the Company's Directors declared an 11.5% increase in its quarterly cash dividend to $.145 per share. The dividend is payable on March 16, 2009 to shareholders of record on March 2, 2009.
CEO's STATEMENT:
Commenting on 2008 performance and 2009 expectations, President and CEO Jai Nagarkatti said: "Despite a challenging environment, we are pleased with our 2008 performance and our ability to improve our profitability. The initiatives that have been key to growth over the last three years are performing well. Looking forward, we are accelerating activities on a number of these initiatives. We are also elevating our efforts in other areas where significant performance improvements can contribute to enhanced growth in sales and profits. And, finally, we are finding other new and innovative ways to differentiate our Company in both life science and high technology applications by building on our unrivalled scientific knowledge and global logistics capabilities."
Nagarkatti continued, "We attribute our 2008 performance to our ability to win market share and drive operating performance faster than sales. Our long-term objective is to achieve above-market rate organic sales growth and enhance that through contributions from technology acquisitions and our innovation efforts. In the near term we expect challenging market conditions and plan to respond by maintaining tight control of our costs without sacrificing the commitment to our growth initiatives. We will approach 2009 with the same passion and energy that has driven our success in the past and exit this recession as a much stronger company than ever before."
OTHER INFORMATION:
Share Repurchase:
Another 3.3 million shares were acquired during the fourth quarter of 2008 at an average share price of $39.45. There were 122.1 million shares outstanding at December 31, 2008. The Company expects to repurchase the 7.7 million remaining authorized shares, but the timing and number of shares purchased, if any, depends upon market conditions and other factors.
 
Cash flow from operations for 2008 was $404 million compared to $417 million for 2007. Cash from higher net income and deferred income taxes was offset by pension plan contributions used to cover market declines in pension investments and increased inventories. This cash flow, together with a $181 million increase in debt, enabled the Company to fund $421 million for share repurchases, pay $90 million for property and equipment additions and return $65 million to shareholders through a 13% increase in the 2008 quarterly dividend. The Company's debt to capital ratio at December 31, 2008 was 34.6%. The Company has not experienced any problem in placing its short-term debt in recent weeks.
Cash Flow and Debt:
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 37 countries and has 7,900 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating our Customers' success through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award winning web site at .
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com
The Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures to supplement its GAAP disclosures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Company's industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
With over 60% of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's controllable, local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented in this release is proforma data and excludes currency, and where indicated, acquisition impacts. While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur in 2009 to applicable exchange rates and are thus unable to reconcile the projected non-GAAP, currency adjusted internal growth rates to reported GAAP growth rates for the year 2009. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies.
Management also reports both GAAP and adjusted sales and income and comparisons to reflect what it believes is ongoing and/or comparable operating results excluding currency impacts and the sales benefit from acquisitions. Management excludes these other items in judging its historical performance and in assessing its expected future performance. Management also uses free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, to judge its performance. Management believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as well.
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to future performance, goals, strategic actions and initiatives and similar intentions and beliefs, including the "2009 Outlook", "CEO's Statement" and "Share Repurchase" sections contained above and other statements regarding the Company's expectations, goals, beliefs, intentions and the like regarding future
Cautionary Statement:
 
sales, earnings, share repurchases, acquisitions and other matters. These statements involve assumptions regarding Company operations, investments and acquisitions and conditions in the markets the Company serves. Although the Company believes its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in this news release, due to, but not limited to, such factors as (1) declining global economic conditions, (2) changes in pricing and the competitive environment and the global demand for our products, (3) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, (4) changes in research funding and the success of research and development activities, (5) dependence on uninterrupted manufacturing operations, (6) changes in the regulatory environment in which the Company operates, (7) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations, including the matters described in Note 4- Uncertainty in Income Taxes- to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, (8) exposure to litigation, including product liability claims, (9) the ability to maintain adequate quality standards, (10) reliance on third party package delivery services, (11) the impact of acquisitions and success in integrating and obtaining projected results from the acquisitions, (12) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates, and (13) the outcome of the matters described in Note 13 - Contingent Liabilities and Commitmentsto the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A further discussion of the Company's risk factors can be found in Item 1A of the Company's Form 10-K report for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales Growth by Business Unit
 
Business Unit Sales
(in millions)
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Proforma to Reported Net Income
 
Income Statement Ratios
 
Reconciliation of Free cash flow
 
 



