FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20090508090305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 5, 2009 Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release which indicated that the Board of Directors declared a $.145 per share quarterly cash dividend. The dividend is payable on June 15, 2009 to shareholders of record on June 1, 2009. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d)
Exhibits
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 8, 2009
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
St. Louis, MO, May 5, 2009 - At the annual shareholders meeting held today in St. Louis, the following directors were re-elected: Rebecca M. Bergman, David R. Harvey, W. Lee McCollum, Jai P. Nagarkatti, Avi M. Nash, Steven M. Paul, J. Pedro Reinhard, Timothy R. G. Sear, D. Dean Spatz and Barrett A. Toan. Shareholders also ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accountant for 2009.
At the Board of Directors meeting held today, the Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.145 per share. The dividend is payable on June 15, 2009 to shareholders of record on June 1, 2009.
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 38 countries and has 7,800 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating our Customers' success through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award winning web site at .
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com


