FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20101116170136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 9, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (the "Company") approved the form of indemnification agreement to be entered into by each of the Company's directors and executive officers. Under the form of indemnification agreement:
 
 
 
The form of indemnification agreement also sets out, among other things, the process for determining entitlement to indemnification and the procedures for enforcement of indemnification rights.
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of indemnification agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10(a) to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Following a review of currently prevailing terms of change in control agreements offered to executives of public companies, the Board approved, on November 9, 2010, the revised change in control agreements to be entered into between the Company and certain officers, including the executive officers listed in the Summary Compensation Table included in the Company's most recent proxy statement filed with the SEC (collectively, the "Named Executive Officers"). No officer will be offered a change in control agreement without the prior approval of the Compensation Committee. The initial term of each agreement is one year, and thereafter shall continue in effect for successive periods of one year unless either the Company or the executive gives written notice of intent to terminate the agreement at least six months prior to the expiration of the then current term. The agreements do not provide for any excise tax gross-up and require that a breach by an executive of the non-disclosure or non-compete provisions would relieve the Company of its obligation to make, and require the executive to repay, certain termination payments. "Change in control" is defined as:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Group" shall have the following meaning: Persons will not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchased stock of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the same public offering. However, persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar business transaction with the corporation. If a person, including an entity, owns stock in both corporations that enter into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a group with other shareholders in a corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with respect to the ownership interest in the other corporation.
In the event of a change in control, the executive vests in outstanding stock awards and incentive programs. The executive is entitled to receive a lump sum equal to the pro-rata portion of his or her target bonus payable under the terms of the Company's cash bonus plan for his or her services and performance to the date of the change in control, provided, that, any such compensation that is nonqualified deferred compensation shall be vested in a pro rata amount of the target bonus and payable under the terms of the awards and plans. In addition, if a change in control occurs and the executive's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without cause or by the executive for good reason, in each case within the six-month period prior to, or within the two-year period following the change in control, the executive shall receive a termination payment equal to 1, 2, or 2.99 multiplied by the executive's base salary plus target bonus. The 2.99 multiple applies to the Chief Executive Officer and all officers hired before January 1, 2010. Officers hired after that date will have a 1 or 2 multiplier applied, depending on their compensation grade. Change in control payments shall be reduced by any lump sum severance payments otherwise due under Company severance programs. In addition, the Company will maintain director and officer insurance for the benefit of the executive, to the maximum extent and for the maximum duration provided under applicable bylaws and insurance policies to the extent permitted by law, and the Company will indemnify the executive for all of the expenses incurred or damages paid or payable with respect to a bona fide claim against the executive where
such claim is based on actions or failures to act by the executive in his or her capacity as an employee of the Company, to the maximum extent and for the maximum duration provided under applicable bylaws and insurance policies to the extent permitted by applicable law.
In connection with the termination payments described above, the executive agrees to protect the Company's confidential information which was acquired in connection with or as a result of the executive's services for the Company and not to compete against the Company during his employment with the Company and for a two-year period following termination of employment.
The Board also agreed to make corresponding changes to the employment agreement and to enter into the revised change in control agreement with Dr. Jai P. Nagarkatti, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer at the time of the Board meeting. As previously disclosed, Dr. Nagarkatti unexpectedly died on November 13, 2010.
The foregoing summary of the provisions of the form of change in control agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the form of agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(b), and is incorporated into this current report by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
See Exhibit Index.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 16, 2010
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10(a)
This Indemnification Agreement (this "Agreement"), dated as of , 2010, is made by and between Sigma-Aldrich Corporation., a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation") and (the "Indemnitee").
                    
    
                    
A. The Corporation recognizes that competent and experienced persons are increasingly reluctant to serve or to continue to serve as directors or officers of corporations unless they are protected by comprehensive liability insurance or indemnification, or both, due to increased exposure to litigation costs and risks resulting from their service to such corporations, and due to the fact that the exposure frequently bears no reasonable relationship to the compensation of such directors and officers;
B. The statutes and judicial decisions regarding the duties of directors and officers are often difficult to apply, ambiguous, or conflicting, and therefore fail to provide such directors and officers with adequate, reliable knowledge of legal risks to which they are exposed or information regarding the proper course of action to take;
C. The Corporation and Indemnitee recognize that plaintiffs often seek damages in such large amounts and the costs of litigation may be so enormous (whether or not the case is meritorious), that the defense and/or settlement of such litigation is often beyond the personal resources of directors and officers;
D. The Corporation believes that it is unfair for its directors and officers to assume the risk of huge judgments and other expenses which may occur in cases in which the director or officer received no personal profit and in cases where the director or officer was not culpable;
E. The Corporation, after reasonable investigation, has determined that the liability insurance coverage presently available to the Corporation may be inadequate in certain circumstances to cover all possible exposure for which Indemnitee should be protected. The Corporation believes that the interests of the Corporation and its stockholders would best be served by a combination of such insurance and the indemnification by the Corporation of the directors and officers of the Corporation;
F. The Corporation's By-Laws require the Corporation to indemnify its directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware Corporation Law. The By-Laws expressly provide that contracts may be entered into between the Corporation and its directors and officers with respect to indemnification;
G. Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL") ("Section 145"), under which the Corporation is organized, empowers the Corporation to indemnify its officers and directors by agreement and to indemnify persons who serve, at the request of the Corporation, as the directors or officers of other corporations or enterprises, and expressly provides that the indemnification provided by Section 145 is not exclusive;
 
 
H. The Board of Directors has determined that contractual indemnification as set forth herein is not only reasonable and prudent but also promotes the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders;
I. The Corporation desires and has requested Indemnitee to serve or continue to serve as a director or officer of the Corporation and/or one or more subsidiaries or affiliates of the Corporation free from undue concern for unwarranted claims for damages arising out of or related to such services to the Corporation and/or one or more subsidiaries or affiliates of the Corporation; and
J. Indemnitee is willing to serve, continue to serve or to provide additional service for or on behalf of the Corporation on the condition that he is furnished the indemnity provided for herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. .
Generally
To the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware:
(a) The Corporation shall indemnify Indemnitee if Indemnitee was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or while serving as a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent (which, for purposes hereof, shall include a trustee, partner or manager or similar capacity) of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity.
(b) The indemnification provided by this Section 1 shall be from and against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, but shall only be provided if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action, suit or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1, in the case of any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or while serving as a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or
 
agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which Indemnitee shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless, and only to the extent that, the Delaware Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
(d) The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful.
To the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Section 1 hereof or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred in connection therewith. For purposes of this Agreement and without limiting the foregoing, if any action, suit or proceeding is disposed of, on the merits or otherwise (including a disposition without prejudice), without (a) the disposition being adverse to Indemnitee, (b) an adjudication that Indemnitee was liable to the Corporation, (c) a plea of guilty or nolo contendere by Indemnitee, (d) an adjudication that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and (e) with respect to any criminal proceeding, an adjudication that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful, Indemnitee shall be considered for the purposes hereof to have been wholly successful with respect thereto.
Section 2. .
Successful Defense; Partial Indemnification
If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Corporation for some or a portion of the expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines or amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection with any action, suit, proceeding or investigation, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, and any appeal therefrom but not, however, for the total amount thereof, the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion of such expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines or amounts paid in settlement to which Indemnitee is entitled.
Any indemnification hereunder shall (unless otherwise ordered by a court) be made by the Corporation unless a determination is made that indemnification of such person is not proper in the circumstances because he or she has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1(b) hereof. Any such determination shall be made (a) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to the action, suit or proceeding in question ("disinterested directors"), even if less than a quorum, (b) by a majority vote of a committee of disinterested directors designated by majority vote of disinterested directors, even if less than a quorum, (c) by a majority vote of a quorum of the outstanding shares of stock of all classes entitled to vote on the matter, voting as a single class, which quorum shall consist of stockholders who are not at that time parties to the action, suit or proceeding in question, (d) by independent legal counsel, or (e) by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 3. .
Determination That Indemnification Is Proper
 
 
Section 4. .
Advance Payment of Expenses; Notification and Defense of Claim
(a) Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by Indemnitee in defending a threatened or pending civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with an enforcement action pursuant to Section 5(b), shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding within thirty (30) days after receipt by the Corporation of (i) a statement or statements from Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, and (ii) an undertaking by or on behalf of Indemnitee to repay such amount or amounts, only if, and to the extent that, it shall ultimately be determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized by this Agreement or otherwise. Such undertaking shall be accepted without reference to the financial ability of Indemnitee to make such repayment. Advances shall be unsecured and interest-free.
(b) Promptly after receipt by Indemnitee of notice of the commencement of any action, suit or proceeding, Indemnitee shall, if a claim thereof is to be made against the Corporation hereunder, notify the Corporation of the commencement thereof. The failure to promptly notify the Corporation of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding, or Indemnitee's request for indemnification, will not relieve the Corporation from any liability that it may have to Indemnitee hereunder, except to the extent the Corporation is prejudiced in its defense of such action, suit or proceeding as a result of such failure.
(c) In the event the Corporation shall be obligated to pay the expenses of Indemnitee with respect to an action, suit or proceeding, as provided in this Agreement, the Corporation, if appropriate, shall be entitled to assume the defense of such action, suit or proceeding, with counsel reasonably acceptable to Indemnitee, upon the delivery to Indemnitee of written notice of its election to do so. After delivery of such notice, approval of such counsel by Indemnitee and the retention of such counsel by the Corporation, the Corporation will not be liable to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any fees of counsel subsequently incurred by Indemnitee with respect to the same action, suit or proceeding, provided that (i) Indemnitee shall have the right to employ Indemnitee's own counsel in such action, suit or proceeding at Indemnitee's expense and (ii) if (1) the employment of counsel by Indemnitee has been previously authorized in writing by the Corporation, (2) counsel to the Corporation shall have reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest or position, or reasonably believes that a conflict is likely to arise, on any significant issue between the Corporation and Indemnitee in the conduct of any such defense, or (3) the Corporation shall not, in fact, have employed counsel to assume the defense of such action, suit or proceeding, then the fees and expenses of Indemnitee's counsel shall be at the expense of the Corporation, except as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement. The Corporation shall not be entitled, without the consent of Indemnitee, to assume the defense of any claim brought by or in the right of the Corporation or as to which counsel for the Corporation shall have reasonably made the conclusion provided for in clause (2) above.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of Indemnitee's corporate status with respect to the Corporation or any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise which Indemnitee is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the
 
Corporation, a witness or otherwise participates in any action, suit or proceeding at a time when Indemnitee is not a party in the action, suit or proceeding, the Corporation shall indemnify Indemnitee against all expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection therewith.
Section 5. .
Procedure for Indemnification
(a) To obtain indemnification, Indemnitee shall promptly submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to Indemnitee and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification. The Corporation shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board of Directors in writing that Indemnitee has requested indemnification.
(b) The Corporation's determination whether to grant Indemnitee's indemnification request shall be made promptly, and in any event within 60 days following receipt of a request for indemnification pursuant to Section 5(a). The right to indemnification as granted by Section 1 of this Agreement shall be enforceable by Indemnitee in any court of competent jurisdiction if the Corporation denies such request, in whole or in part, or fails to respond within such 60-day period. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for the advance of costs, charges and expenses under Section 4 hereof where the required undertaking, if any, has been received by the Corporation) that Indemnitee has not met the standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 hereof, but the burden of proving such defense by clear and convincing evidence shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors or one of its committees, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of Indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 hereof, nor the fact that there has been an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors or one of its committees, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has or has not met the applicable standard of conduct. The Indemnitee's expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred in connection with successfully establishing Indemnitee's right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such proceeding or otherwise shall also be indemnified by the Corporation.
(c) The Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Agreement upon submission of a request for indemnification pursuant to this Section 5, and the Corporation shall have the burden of proof in overcoming that presumption in reaching a determination contrary to that presumption. Such presumption shall be used as a basis for a determination of entitlement to indemnification unless the Corporation overcomes such presumption by clear and convincing evidence.
 
 
Section 6. .
Insurance and Subrogation
(a) The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of Indemnitee who is or was or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability asserted against, and incurred by, Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in any such capacity, or arising out of Indemnitee's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify Indemnitee against such liability under the provisions of this Agreement. If the Corporation has such insurance in effect at the time the Corporation receives from Indemnitee any notice of the commencement of a proceeding, the Corporation shall give prompt notice of the commencement of such proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the policy. The Corporation shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policy.
(b) Except as provided in Section 16 below, in the event of any payment by the Corporation under this Agreement, the Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee with respect to any insurance policy, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Corporation to bring suit to enforce such rights in accordance with the terms of such insurance policy. The Corporation shall pay or reimburse all expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such subrogation.
(c) Except as provided in Section 16 below, the Corporation shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder (including, but not limited to, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties, and amounts paid in settlement) if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under this Agreement or any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.
For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:
Section 7. .
Certain Definitions
(a) The term "action, suit or proceeding" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, the investigation, preparation, prosecution, defense, settlement, arbitration and appeal of, and the giving of testimony in, any threatened, pending or completed claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative.
(b) The term "by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or while serving as a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, any actual or alleged act or omission to act.
 
 
(c) The term "expenses" shall be broadly and reasonably construed and shall include, without limitation, all direct and indirect costs of any type or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, all attorneys' fees and related disbursements, appeal bonds, other out-of-pocket costs and reasonable compensation for time spent by Indemnitee for which Indemnitee is not otherwise compensated by the Corporation or any third party, provided that the rate of compensation and estimated time involved is approved by the Board, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with either the investigation, defense or appeal of a proceeding or establishing or enforcing a right to indemnification under this Agreement, Section 145 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or otherwise.
(d) The term "judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, all direct and indirect payments of any type or nature whatsoever, as well as any penalties or excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan.
(e) The term "Corporation" shall include, without limitation and in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Agreement with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he or she would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
(f) The term "other enterprises" shall include, without limitation, employee benefit plans.
(g) The term "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include, without limitation, any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries.
(h) A person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Agreement.
Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, the Corporation shall not be obligated pursuant to this Agreement:
Section 8. .
Limitation on Indemnification
To indemnify or advance expenses to Indemnitee with respect to an action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by Indemnitee, except with respect to an action, suit or proceeding brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification (which shall be governed by the provisions of Section 8(b) of this Agreement), unless such action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
(a) .
Claims Initiated by Indemnitee
 
 
To indemnify Indemnitee for any expenses incurred by Indemnitee with respect to any action, suit or proceeding instituted by Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, unless Indemnitee is successful in establishing Indemnitee's right to indemnification in such action, suit or proceeding, in whole or in part, or unless and to the extent that the court in such action, suit or proceeding shall determine that, despite Indemnitee's failure to establish their right to indemnification, Indemnitee is entitled to indemnity for such expenses; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 8(b) is intended to limit the Corporation's obligation with respect to the advancement of expenses to Indemnitee in connection with any such action, suit or proceeding instituted by Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, as provided in Section 4 hereof.
(b) .
Action for Indemnification
To indemnify Indemnitee on account of any proceeding with respect to which final judgment is rendered against Indemnitee for payment or an accounting of profits arising from the purchase or sale by Indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any similar successor statute.
(c) .
Section 16 Violations
To indemnify Indemnitee in connection with proceedings or claims involving the enforcement of non-compete and/or non-disclosure agreements or the non-compete and/or non-disclosure provisions of employment, consulting or similar agreements the Indemnitee may be a party to with the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation or any other applicable foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, if any.
(d) .
Non-compete and Non-disclosure
The Corporation shall have no obligation to indemnify Indemnitee under this Agreement for amounts paid in settlement of any action, suit or proceeding without the Corporation's prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Corporation shall not settle any action, suit or proceeding in any manner that would impose any fine or other obligation on Indemnitee without Indemnitee's prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 9. .
Certain Settlement Provisions
If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Agreement that shall not have been invalidated and to the full extent permitted by applicable law.
Section 10. .
Savings Clause
In order to provide for just and equitable contribution in circumstances in which the indemnification provided for herein is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unavailable to Indemnitee in whole or in part, it is agreed that, in such event, the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, contribute to the payment of Indemnitee's costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
Section 11. .
Contribution
 
administrative or investigative, in an amount that is just and equitable in the circumstances, taking into account, among other things, contributions by other directors and officers of the Corporation or others pursuant to indemnification agreements or otherwise; provided, that, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such contribution shall not be required where such holding by the court is due to (a) the failure of Indemnitee to meet the standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 hereof, or (b) any limitation on indemnification set forth in Section 6(c), 8 or 9 hereof.
Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the parties under this Agreement shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
Section 12. .
Form and Delivery of Communications
 
If the DGCL is amended after adoption of this Agreement to expand further the indemnification permitted to directors or officers, then the Corporation shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL, as so amended.
Section 13. .
Subsequent Legislation
The provisions for indemnification and advancement of expenses set forth in this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights which Indemnitee may have under any provision of law or the Corporation's By-Laws, in any court in which a proceeding is brought, the vote of the Corporation's stockholders or disinterested directors, other agreements or otherwise, and Indemnitee's rights hereunder shall continue after Indemnitee has ceased acting as an agent of the Corporation and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of Indemnitee. However, no amendment or alteration of the Corporation's By-Laws or any other agreement shall adversely affect the rights provided to Indemnitee under this Agreement
Section 14. .
Nonexclusivity
The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable. The Corporation agrees that its execution of this Agreement shall constitute a stipulation by which it shall be irrevocably bound in any court of competent
Section 15. .
Enforcement
 
jurisdiction in which a proceeding by Indemnitee for enforcement of his rights hereunder shall have been commenced, continued or appealed, that its obligations set forth in this Agreement are unique and special, and that failure of the Corporation to comply with the provisions of this Agreement will cause irreparable and irremediable injury to Indemnitee, for which a remedy at law will be inadequate. As a result, in addition to any other right or remedy Indemnitee may have at law or in equity with respect to breach of this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be entitled to injunctive or mandatory relief directing specific performance by the Corporation of its obligations under this Agreement.
It is understood that the parties hereto intend this Agreement to be interpreted and enforced so as to provide indemnification to Indemnitee to the fullest extent now or hereafter permitted by law.
Section 16. .
Interpretation of Agreement
This Agreement and the documents expressly referred to herein constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters covered hereby, and any other prior or contemporaneous oral or written understandings or agreements with respect to the matters covered hereby are expressly superceded by this Agreement.
Section 17. .
Entire Agreement
No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Section 18. .
Modification and Waiver
All of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives. The Corporation shall require and cause any direct or indirect successor (whether by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Corporation, by written agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Indemnitee, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.
Section 19. .
Successor and Assigns
For purposes of any claims or proceedings to enforce this agreement, the Corporation consents to the jurisdiction and venue of any federal or state court of competent jurisdiction in the states of Delaware, and waives and agrees not to raise any defense that any such court is an inconvenient forum or any similar claim.
Section 20. .
Service of Process and Venue
This Agreement shall be governed exclusively by and construed according to the laws of the State of Delaware, as applied to contracts between Delaware residents entered into and to be performed entirely within Delaware. If a court of competent jurisdiction shall make a final determination that the provisions of the law of any state other than Delaware govern indemnification by the Corporation of its officers and directors, then the indemnification provided under this Agreement shall in all instances be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted under such law, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary.
Section 21. .
Governing Law
 
 
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to create in Indemnitee any right to employment or continued employment.
Section 22. .
Employment Rights
This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument, notwithstanding that both parties are not signatories to the original or same counterpart.
Section 23. .
Counterparts
The section and subsection headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 24. .
Headings
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered to be effective as of the date first above written.
 

 
Exhibit 10(b)
This Agreement, dated as of this day of , 2010, is by and between ("Executive") and Sigma-Aldrich Corporation and any successor to its business and/or assets ("Company").
                    
                    
                                        
WHEREAS, the Company considers it essential to the best interests of the Company that its key employees be encouraged to remain with the company and to devote full attention to the Company's business in the event that any third party expresses its intention to take action which could result in a change in control of the Company; and
WHEREAS, Executive serves as a key employee of the Company;
NOW, THEREFORE, to encourage Executive's continued, undivided attention, dedication and services to the Company and the availability of Executive's advice and counsel notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a change in control of the Company, and to induce Executive to remain in the employ of the Company, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and Executive agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of the definition in this Section 2(c), group shall have the following meaning: Persons will not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchased stock of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the same public offering. However, persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar business transaction with the corporation. If a person, including an entity, owns stock in both corporations that enter into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a group with other shareholders in a corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with respect to the ownership interest in the other corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The party seeking arbitration shall notify the other party in writing and request the AAA to submit a list of 5 or 7 potential arbitrators. In the event the parties do not agree upon an arbitrator, each party shall, in turn, strike one arbitrator from the list, the Corporation having the first strike, until only one arbitrator remains, who shall arbitrate the dispute. The arbitration hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the selection of an arbitrator or at the earliest date thereafter that the arbitrator is available.
The administrative costs of the arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties, and each party shall pay its own costs in connection with any equitable relief sought with respect to enforcement of Section 9; however, if Executive is the prevailing party in any such arbitration (or other action, if applicable), the Company shall pay all costs and attorneys' fees incurred by Executive in such action. For purposes of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be the party that substantially prevails in the action after the resolution of all claims. The arbitrator shall retain jurisdiction of the dispute to determine any prevailing party issues.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If to Executive:
 
If to the Company:
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation
ATTN: General Counsel
3050 Spruce Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 286-7442
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Change in Control Agreement this day of December 2010.
            
I UNDERSTAND THAT THIS AGREEMENT HAS A BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION WHICH CAN BE ENFORCED BY THE PARTIES.
 
 
 


