FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20100210084738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 10, 2010, Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter operating results for the period ended December 31, 2009. This press release and certain supplemental information are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
On February 10, 2010, the Registrant issued a press release regarding the financial outlook for the fourth quarter ending December 31, 2009. This press release and certain supplemental information are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
(c)
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 10, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
3050 Spruce Street, St. Louis, MO 63103 USA
Tel: (800) 521-8956 (314) 771-5765 Fax: (800) 325-5052 (314) 771-5757
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE -St. Louis, MO., February 10, 2010
HIGHLIGHTS:
2009 Results (all percentages are to comparable periods in 2008)
 
 
 
2010 Outlook (all percentages are compared to full year 2009 results)
 
 
 
Dividend
At a meeting held on February 9, 2010, the Company's Directors declared a 10.3% increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.16 per share. The dividend is payable on March 15, 2010 to shareholders of record on March 1, 2010.
CEO's STATEMENT:
Commenting on fourth quarter and full year 2009 performance, Chairman, President and CEO Jai Nagarkatti said: "The $0.75 diluted EPS delivered for the fourth quarter of 2009 was our best quarterly performance this year. We are very pleased with this performance that helped us finish the year strong in what continued to be challenging economic conditions. For the full year, we were again able to achieve record earnings per share for a 35
th
consecutive year."
 
Our strategy of helping researchers increase the quality of life through our focused offerings of innovative laboratory products and services in the areas of life science and materials science is giving us the opportunity to elevate our growth. We are also making excellent inroads in our specialty fine chemicals (SAFC) business as we leverage our capabilities in the research business and with the recent investments we have made in adding new product capability and capacity in Wisconsin, California, and Israel. The collective markets we compete in are large and offer us significant headroom for continued growth in the future.
In the fourth quarter, our teams around the world helped achieve improved growth in both the research and fine chemicals businesses as we continued to make the necessary investments in new and innovative products to expand our offering in the life science and high technology markets we serve. We're particularly pleased with The Scientist's magazine recognition of our Zinc Finger Nuclease technology platform for developing and offering gene knockout rat models as a top 5 innovation for 2009. These rat models express human disease, and initally will include animals with various neurological conditions to enable researchers to address diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Schizophrenia. On the e-commerce front, we again experienced an increase in the percentage of our research business coming through this channel. Just recently, we added our "Your Favorite Gene" search capabilities to Facebook to encourage scientists to collaborate in this exciting area in life science. And internationally, we've continued to expand our presence in the non-European markets, increasing overall sales in these countries to 21% of our worldwide revenue.
Nagarkatti continued, "For 2010, we expect to grow organic sales in the mid-single digit percentage range and deliver diluted EPS growth in the high single to low double-digit percentage range. To produce the longer-term growth and returns, we are actively creating new demand in the faster growing biotech, analytical chemistry and materials science product areas." We expect some improvement in the markets we serve in 2010, with a contribution from increased pharma spending and a modest benefit from the stimulus funds provided to the academic sector. We'll also continue our efforts to drive above market growth through our key initiatives on new technologies, e-commerce and international market opportunities."
2009 RESULTS:
Reported sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 were $573 million, an increase of 12.3% from the fourth quarter of 2008. Excluding the impact of currency, fourth quarter organic sales growth was 5.6%. For the year ended December 31, 2009, reported sales declined by 2.4% from 2008, with organic sales growth of 1.7%. Sales for the Company's Research business grew 3.1% and 2.1% organically for the fourth quarter and full year of 2009, respectively. Sales for SAFC continued the momentum of Q3 2009, with fourth quarter organic growth of 11.9% as sales of H1N1 vaccine adjuvants to pharma companies and shipments of industrial media and other previously booked orders drove sales for this unit to a quarterly high for 2009. Full year 2009 organic sales for SAFC increased by 0.6% from the 2008 level. Quarterly and year-to-date comparisons and a reconciliation of reported to adjusted organic sales are on page 8.
The operating income margin in the fourth quarter 2009 of 22.3% of sales reflects a modest decline from levels in 2008's fourth quarter due to unfavorable currency and a $9 million restructuring cost to consolidate SAFC's Biosciences manufacturing facilities and a voluntary retirement program accepted by a limited number of employees. These margin enhancement actions are part of the Company's efforts to better match resources with current market demand and to lower its fixed cost structure. The Company continued to realize accelerated benefits from its global supply chain activities and to lower S,G&A costs in an effort to offset the adverse currency impact on earnings it has experienced throughout 2009. Supply chain process improvements benefited Q4 2009 pretax profit by an additional $4 million, boosting the year-to-date result to $22 million that helped to partially offset the currency headwind. Favorable tax audit activity and international tax benefits enabled us to achieve a 26.3% tax rate for Q4 2009. Full year 2009 tax rate was 29.2%, slightly below earlier expectations. Free cash flow (defined on page 7) for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $122 million, driving free cash for the full year to a record $396 million. Continued focus on inventory management was a large contributor to this result. A reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow is on page 9.
 
Other highlights from global sales growth initiatives and profit enhancement activities include:
 
 
 
2010 OUTLOOK:
 
 
 
OTHER INFORMATION:
Net cash flow provided by operations for 2009 was $516 million compared to $404 million for 2008. This increase reflects a reduction in working capital, most notably a $109 million difference in cash required for inventory through effective management to reduce inventory months on hand to 6.5 months at December 31, 2009 from about 7.0 months at December 31, 2008. Capital expenditures increased to $120 million in 2009 from $90 million in 2008 as the Company made investments to expand its biotech fermentation facility in Israel and its manufacturing capacity for viral products and active pharmaceutical ingredients in the U.S. Overall free cash flow of $396 million in 2009 was used to repay $142 million in debt, return $138 million to shareholders through share repurchases and an 11.5% increase in dividends, and to fund $50 million in technology and other investments through acquisitions and various partnership and licensing activities. The Company's debt to capital ratio was reduced to 25.5% at December 31, 2009 from 34.6% at December 31, 2008. The Company has not experienced any problem in placing its short-term debt in the current credit market environment.
Cash Flow and Debt:
 
Another 0.4 million shares were acquired in the fourth quarter of 2009 at an average share price of $53.60. There were 121.7 million shares outstanding at December 31, 2009. The Company expects to continue to offset the dilutive impact of issuing incentive compensation by future repurchases. Further, the Company may repurchase additional shares, but the timing and amount will depend upon market conditions and other factors.
Share Repurchase:
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 38 countries and has 7,700 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating our Customers' success through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award winning web site at .
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com
The Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures to supplement its GAAP disclosures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Company's industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure. See the Supplemental Financial Information on pages 8 and 9 for these reconciliations.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
With over 60% of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's controllable, local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented in this release is proforma data and excludes currency impacts. While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur in 2010 to applicable exchange rates and thus will be unable to reconcile the projected non-GAAP, currency adjusted internal growth rates to reported GAAP growth rates for the year 2010. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies.
Management reports both GAAP and adjusted sales and income (including EPS) and comparisons to reflect what it believes are ongoing and/or comparable operating results excluding currency impacts. Management excludes this item in judging its historical performance and in assessing its expected future performance. Management also uses free cash flow (defined on page 7), a non-GAAP measure, to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Management believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as well.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to future performance, goals, strategic actions and initiatives and similar intentions and beliefs, including phrases "are expected", "is expected", "we expect", "enhance", "improve", "identified additional initiatives", "we plan", "our initial forecast", and other statements regarding the Company's expectations, goals, beliefs, intentions and the like regarding future sales, earnings, free cash flow, share repurchases, acquisitions and other matters. These statements are based on assumptions regarding Company operations, investments and acquisitions and conditions in the markets the Company serves. The Company believes these assumptions are reasonable and well founded. The forward looking statements in this release are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in this news release, due to, but not limited to, such factors as (1) global economic conditions, (2) changes in pricing and the competitive environment and the global demand for our products, (3) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, (4) changes in research funding and the success of research and development activities, (5) dependence on uninterrupted manufacturing operations, (6) changes in the regulatory environment in which the Company operates, (7) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations, including the matters described in Note 4-Uncertainty in Income Taxes-to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, (8) exposure to litigation, including product liability claims, (9) the ability to maintain adequate quality standards, (10) reliance on third party package delivery services, (11) failure to achieve planned cost reductions in global supply chain rationalization, (12) an unanticipated increase in interest rates, (13) failure of planned sales initiatives in our Research and SAFC businesses, (14) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates, and (15) the outcome of the matters described in Note 13-Contingent Liabilities and Commitments-to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. A further discussion of the Company's risk factors can be found in Item 1A of the Company's Form 10-K report for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Cautionary Statement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales Growth by Business Unit
 
Business Unit Sales
(in millions)
 
 
Reconciliation of Proforma to Reported Net Income
 
Income Statement Ratios
 
Reconciliation of Free cash flow
(in millions)
 
 



