FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20101115155637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 14, 2010, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (Sigma-Aldrich or the Company) announced with great sadness that Dr. Jai P. Nagarkatti, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), died suddenly and unexpectedly of an apparent heart attack Saturday, November 13, 2010 in St. Louis, Missouri. He was 63 years old.
Sigma-Aldrich's Board of Directors has had in place a careful succession plan for key officers, including the CEO. Drawing upon over a year of work on a succession plan for senior leadership, the Board has elected Rakesh Sachdev as President and CEO. Mr. Sachdev, age 54, has been Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief Administrative Officer since May 2009. In his Chief Administrative Officer capacity, Mr. Sachdev was responsible for the Information Systems and the Strategy and Corporate Development functions. Mr. Sachdev also assumed responsibility for the Company's operations in Asia Pacific and Latin America. Previously, he served as Vice President and CFO of the Company from November 2008 to May 2009. Mr. Sachdev has also been elected to the Sigma-Aldrich Board of Directors as of November 14, 2010. Mr. Sachdev has held varied executive positions at publicly-traded manufacturing companies over his career, giving him experience in the areas of corporate transactions, operations and manufacturing, international business, corporate communications and enterprise risk management. Mr. Sachdev also has significant financial expertise as a chief financial officer and an educational background in mechanical engineering. These skills as well as Mr. Sachdev's contributions to the Company while serving as a member of the executive management team, in particular his leadership in the development and implementation of the current Five Year Strategic Plan led to the conclusion that Mr. Sachdev should serve as a director of the Company.
The Board also has elected Barrett Toan as Chairman as of November 14, 2010.
Mr. Sachdev joined the Company in 2008 from ArvinMeritor, a global supplier of a broad range of integrated systems, modules and components to original equipment manufacturers and the aftermarket for the commercial vehicle, transportation and industrial sectors, where he was Senior Vice President and President Asia Pacific from March 2007 to July 2008. He served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and Strategy of ArvinMeritor from April 2005 through March 2007. He served as Interim Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Controller of ArvinMeritor from August 2003 to March 2005. Prior to joining ArvinMeritor, Mr. Sachdev worked for Cummins Inc. in various leadership roles, including CFO for one of its largest business units, and as Managing Director of its Mexican operations. Mr. Sachdev earned his Masters in Business Administration degree from Indiana University, a Masters degree in Engineering from the University of Illinois and his Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering from the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi. He also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Regal Beloit, Inc. (NYSE: RBC)
Mr. Toan, age 63, served as Chairman of Express Scripts from 1996 to 2006 and as CEO of Express Scripts, Inc. from 1989 to 2005. He has served on the Board of Directors of Sigma-Aldrich since 2001 and served as the Board's Presiding Director. In that role he presided over independent directors executive sessions at the Board meetings and acted as a liaison between the Chairman and independent directors in matters relating to the Board.
On November 15, 2010 Sigma-Aldrich Corporation announced the appointment of Kirk Richter to the role of Interim CFO. He currently serves as Vice President and Treasurer, duties that he will continue to perform. He succeeds Rakesh Sachdev in the CFO role with Mr. Sachdev's appointment to President and CEO. Mr. Richter will serve in this role until such time as the Board of Directors has determined a permanent replacement for Mr. Sachdev.
Mr. Richter, age 64, began his career at the Company in 1978. He has been Vice President and Treasurer since May 2009 and was previously Treasurer since 1998, with responsibilities for the Company's treasury, tax and investor relations functions. He previously served as Corporate Controller from 1983 to 1998. He earned a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration degree from the University of Missouri-St. Louis and is a C.P.A.
The information required under Item 5.02 (c) (3) of Form 8K has not been determined and will be provided in an amendment to this report.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 14, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the death of Dr. Jai P. Nagarkatti, the appointment of Rakesh Sachdev as the President and Chief Executive Officer, and certain other related matters. On November 15, 2010 Sigma-Aldrich Corporation announced the appointment of Kirk Richter to the role of Interim CFO. A copy of these press releases are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 hereto and are incorporated by reference herein. The description of the press releases contained herein is qualified in its entirety by the full text of such exhibit.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
The following Exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 15, 2010
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
FORWARD INQUIRIES TO: Sigma-Aldrich
Kirk Richter
+ (1) 314-286-8004
kirk.richter@sial.com
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation Announces Death of Chairman and CEO; Election of New CEO and Chairman; Conference Call Scheduled for 10:00a.m. (Central Time) on November 15, 2010
ST. LOUIS, MO; Nov. 14, 2010 (NASDAQ: SIAL) It is with great sadness that Sigma-Aldrich Corporation announces that Dr. Jai P. Nagarkatti, its Chairman, President and CEO, died suddenly and unexpectedly of an apparent heart attack Saturday, November 13, 2010 in St. Louis, Missouri. He was 63 years old.
Jai Nagarkatti spent his entire career with Sigma-Aldrich beginning in 1976, with his positions spanning R&D, manufacturing, operations, sales and marketing. His effectiveness and dedication were recognized in each function, and led to steady promotions and increasing responsibilities. Dr. Nagarkatti was elected President and Chief Operating Officer in 2004, elected to the additional roles of CEO in 2006 and Chairman of the Board in 2009. He had been a member of the Board of Directors since 2005. Under Dr. Nagarkatti's leadership and with his guidance, the Company's continued focus on service, quality, and innovation led it to become a leading global life sciences and high tech company. In that same period, Dr. Nagarkatti's vision drove the Company's renewed focus on sustainability and corporate responsibility, touching countless persons in the Company and the communities in which it operates.
Speaking on behalf of the Board and staff of the Company, Barrett Toan, Sigma-Aldrich's Presiding Director said, "The entire Sigma-Aldrich global organization mourns the loss of Jai and our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Susan, and his daughter Shanti. Our deepest sympathies go out to them. He was respected by the Company's 7,700 employees and will be missed."
Sigma-Aldrich's Board of Directors has had in place a careful succession plan for key officers, including the CEO. Drawing upon over a year of work on a succession plan for senior leadership, the Board has elected Rakesh Sachdev as President and CEO. Mr. Sachdev most recently served as Chief Financial Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, and Senior Vice President of the International business. Mr. Sachdev, age 54, has also been elected to the Sigma-Aldrich Board of Directors as of November 14, 2010.
The Board also has elected Barrett Toan as Chairman as of November 14, 2010.
Mr. Sachdev joined the Company in 2008 from ArvinMeritor, where he was Senior Vice President and President Asia Pacific. At ArvinMeritor, he also served in diverse leadership roles, including Interim CFO, Senior Vice President Strategy and Corporate Development and Vice President and General Manager of several of their global businesses. Prior to joining ArvinMeritor, Mr. Sachdev worked for Cummins Inc. in various leadership roles, including CFO for one of its largest business units, and as Managing Director of its Mexican operations. Mr. Sachdev earned his Masters in Business Administration degree from Indiana University, a Masters degree in Engineering from the University of Illinois and his Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering from the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi. He also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Regal Beloit, Inc. (NYSE: RBC)
Mr. Toan, age 63, served as Chairman of Express Scripts from 1996 to 2006 and as CEO of Express Scripts, Inc. from 1989 to 2005. He has served on the Board of Directors of Sigma-Aldrich since 2001 and served as the Board's Presiding Director. In that role he presided over independent directors executive sessions at the Board meetings and acted as a liaison between the Chairman and independent directors in matters relating to the Board.
 
Sigma-Aldrich will hold a conference call to discuss these matters on Monday, November 15, 2010 10:00am Central Time (11:00am Eastern Time).
 
Further inquiries should be made to Kirk Richter, Vice President and Treasurer, at 314-286-8004.
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading Life Science and High Technology company. Its biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. The Company has customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals, and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use its products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 40 countries and has 7,700 employees providing excellent service worldwide. Sigma-Aldrich is committed to Accelerating Customer Success through Innovation and Leadership in Life Science, High Technology and Service. For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit its award-winning Web site at .
:
About Sigma-Aldrich
http://www.sigma-aldrich.com
Sigma-Aldrich is a registered trademark of Sigma-Aldrich Biotechnology L.P. and Sigma-Aldrich Co.

Exhibit 99.2
News Release
 
Sigma-Aldrich is pleased to announce the appointment of Kirk Richter to the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer (CFO). He currently serves as Vice President and Treasurer, duties that he will continue to perform. He succeeds Rakesh Sachdev in the CFO role with Mr. Sachdev's appointment to President and CEO. Mr. Richter will serve in this role until such time as the Board of Directors has determined a permanent replacement for Mr. Sachdev.
ST. LOUIS, MO, November 15, 2010
Mr. Sachdev commented, "We are pleased to be able to appoint Kirk to this expanded finance leadership role. In this position, his 32 years of experience with our Company in its global finance operation is expected to enhance our own leadership position as we pursue opportunities to enhance our sales and profit growth and build shareholder value. Kirk has an impressive record of success, demonstrating strong leadership, innovative thinking and operational excellence."
Mr. Richter (age 64) began his career at the Company in 1978. He has been Vice President and Treasurer since 1998, with responsibilities for the Company's treasury, tax and investor relations functions. He previously served as Corporate Controller from 1983 to 1998. He earned a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration degree from the University of Missouri-St. Louis and is a C.P.A.
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company. Our biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over one million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 40 countries and has 7,700 employees providing excellent service worldwide. We are committed to accelerating our Customers' success through leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit our award winning web site at
About Sigma-Aldrich:
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com


