FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20110214191254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (the "Company") is filing this Amendment No. 1 (the "Amendment") to its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 15, 2010 (the "Original Filing"), which announced, among other things, that Rakesh Sachdev was elected as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, and that Kirk Richter would serve as the Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company. This Amendment provides the information required under Item 5.02(c)(3) of Form 8-K with regard to Mr. Sachdev's and Mr. Richter's terms of employment arrangements, which had not been determined at the time of the Original Filing. Accordingly, this Amendment supplements and does not replace the information that was previously disclosed.
Mr. Sachdev
On February 14, 2011, the Company entered into an employment agreement (the "Agreement") with Mr. Sachdev, effective January 1, 2011 for a term extending through January 1, 2014. Under the Agreement, Mr. Sachdev will serve, as previously announced, as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Agreement provides for:
 
 
 
 
 
The agreement further provides that if the Company terminates Mr. Sachdev's employment for "cause" (as defined in the Agreement) or Mr. Sachdev voluntarily terminates his employment without "good reason" (as defined in the Agreement) before the end of the employment period, Mr. Sachdev would receive his base salary through the date of termination but will not be entitled to any severance compensation or to any further base salary, bonus or benefits unless otherwise specified in a benefit program. If the Company involuntarily terminates Mr. Sachdev's employment without "cause" or Mr. Sachdev terminates his employment for "good reason" before the end of the employment period, Mr. Sachdev would receive his base salary through the date of termination and, provided that he executes a release of claims, he would receive severance pay equal to 2.99 times his annual base salary. Such severance payments will be made in equal installments over a 36 month period payable on the dates on which the base salary would have otherwise been paid if his employment had continued. Mr. Sachdev shall not be entitled to such severance pay if he becomes entitled to any termination payments or other severance payments under the change of control agreement previously entered into between the Company and Mr. Sachdev. In the event that Mr. Sachdev is determined to be a specified employee in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, any such severance payments shall begin on the first payroll date that is more than six months following the date of separation from service, but only to the extent that such payments do not satisfy an exception to Code Section 409A.
In the event of Mr. Sachdev's death, the Company's obligations under the Agreement will terminate on the last day of the month in which he dies or in the event of his disability, on the date he first becomes entitled to receive disability benefits under the LTIP. The Company will pay to Mr. Sachdev or his estate all accrued and unpaid base salary and a pro rata annual bonus for the year of termination based on actual performance for that fiscal year.
Mr. Sachdev agrees to protect the Company's confidential information and not to compete against the Company during his employment with the Company and for a two-year period following termination of employment.
Mr. Richter
On February 8, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company, upon a recommendation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, approved Mr. Richter's compensation as follows:
 
 
 
These compensation arrangements are effective as of January 1, 2011.
This Amendment No. 1 is being filed solely to supplement item 5.02 of the Original Filing, "Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers," to reflect Mr. Sachdev's employment agreement and Mr. Richter's new compensation.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
See Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 14, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 10(a)
THIS EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is effective as of January 1, 2011 by and between the Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Company") and Rakesh Sachdev ("Executive").
WHEREAS, Executive desires to serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and in exchange for the protection and other consideration set forth in this Agreement, is willing to give the Company, under certain circumstances, his covenant not to compete, and the Company desires to so employ Executive.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual agreements contained herein, the Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
(i) the willful and continuous failure by Executive to substantially perform Executive's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness) thirty (30) days after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Executive by the Board which specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that Executive has not substantially performed Executive's duties,
(ii) gross misconduct or gross negligence by Executive provided (A) the Board has determined that that the resulting harm to the Company from Executive's gross misconduct or gross negligence cannot be adequately remedied, or (B) Executive fails to correct any resulting harm to the Company within thirty (30) days after a written demand for correction is delivered to Executive by the Board which specifically identifies both the manner in which the Board believes that Executive has engaged in gross misconduct or gross negligence and an appropriate method of correcting any resulting harm to the Company, or
(iii) Executive's conviction of or the entering of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the commission of a felony.
 
 
or not, which is of a confidential, trade secret and/or proprietary character and which is either developed by Executive (alone or with others) or to which Executive shall have had access during his employment. Confidential Information shall include (among other things) all confidential data, designs, plans, notes, memoranda, work sheets, formulas, processes, and Customer and supplier lists.
 
 
(i) a material diminution in Executive's authority, duties, or responsibilities;
(ii) a material diminution in the authority, duties or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom the Executive is required to report;
(iii) a material diminution in the budget over which the Executive retains authority;
(iv) a change of at least 50 miles in the geographic location at which the Executive must perform services for the Company;
(v) any action or inaction that constitutes a material breach by the Company of the agreement under which the Executive provides services; or
(vi) a material diminution in the Executive's base compensation.
In order for a termination of employment to be on account of "Good Reason", the Executive must provide the Company with a notice within 90 days of the initial existence of a condition constituting Good Reason, must afford the Company 30 days in which to remedy the condition, and if no such cure has been effectuated, must terminate employment within six (6) months of the initial existence of the identified condition constituting Good Reason.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive hereby represents and warrants to the Company that (i) Executive's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement do not and shall not conflict with, breach, violate or cause a default under any contract, agreement, instrument, order, judgment or decree to which Executive is a party or by which he is bound, (ii) Executive is not a party to or bound by any employment agreement, noncompete agreement or confidentiality agreement with any other person or entity and (iii) upon the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company, this Agreement shall be the valid and binding obligation of Executive, enforceable in accordance with its terms. Executive hereby acknowledges and represents that he fully understands the terms and conditions contained herein.
3.1 .
Executive's Representations
Sections 2.5, 2.6 and 2.7 and Sections 3.3 through 3.12 shall survive and continue in full force in accordance with their terms notwithstanding any termination of the Employment Period.
3.2 .
Survival
All notices, demands or other communications to be given or delivered under or by reason of the provisions of this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been given when delivered personally, mailed by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested and postage prepaid, or sent via a nationally recognized overnight courier, or sent via facsimile to the recipient. Such notices, demands and other communications will be sent to the address indicated below:
3.3 .
Notices
To the Company:
General Counsel
Sigma-Aldrich Corporation
3050 Spruce
St. Louis, MO 63103
To Executive:
Mr. Rakesh Sachdev
At the address on file with the Company
or such other address or to the attention of such other person as the recipient party shall have specified by prior written notice to the sending party.
Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, (a) the parties agree that such provision(s) will be enforced to the maximum extent
3.4 .
Severability
 
permissible under the applicable law, and (b) any invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of a particular provision will not affect any other provision of this Agreement.
Except as otherwise provided herein, all covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Company, and their respective successors and assigns. This Agreement is personal to Executive and except as otherwise specifically provided herein, this Agreement, including the obligations and benefits hereunder, may not be assigned to any party by Executive.
3.5 .
Successors and Assigns
The descriptive headings of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and do not constitute a part of this Agreement.
3.6 .
Descriptive Headings
This Agreement may be executed in one or more identical counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
3.7 .
Counterparts
Neither any course of dealing nor any failure or neglect of either party hereto in any instance to exercise any right, power or privilege hereunder or under law shall constitute a waiver of such right, power or privilege or of any other right, power or privilege or of the same right, power or privilege in any other instance. All waivers by either party hereto must be contained in a written instrument signed by the party to be charged therewith, and, in the case of Company, by its duly authorized officer.
3.8 .
Waiver
Subject to the following two sentences, this instrument constitutes the entire agreement of the parties in this matter and shall supersede any other agreement between the parties, oral or written, concerning the same subject matter including, but not limited to, any prior employment and severance agreements. The parties acknowledge that the Executive is a participant in a variety of employee benefit plans and arrangements, including welfare plans, qualified and nonqualified retirement plans, the Change of Control Agreement, equity and other awards issued under the Sigma-Aldrich Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan, and fringe benefit plans. For the avoidance of doubt, except as specifically provided in this Agreement, these plans, arrangements, and awards shall continue to operate in accordance with their terms, and shall remain in full force and effect until amended or terminated in accordance with the terms thereof.
3.9 .
Entire Agreement
This Agreement may be amended only by a writing which makes express reference to this Agreement as the subject of such amendment and which is signed by Executive and by a duly authorized officer of the Company.
3.10 .
Amendment
This Agreement shall be signed by the parties in St. Louis, Missouri. All questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the domestic law of the State of Missouri, without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of the State of Missouri or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Missouri. Any litigation relating to or arising out of this Agreement shall be filed and litigated exclusively in the St. Louis County Circuit Court or the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.
3.11 .
Governing Law
 
Each of the parties to this Agreement will be entitled to enforce its rights under this Agreement specifically, to recover damages and costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees) caused by any breach of any provision of this Agreement and to exercise all other rights existing in its favor. The parties hereto agree and acknowledge that money damages may not be an adequate remedy for any breach of the provisions of this Agreement, including, without limitation, Sections 2.5, 2.6 and 2.7 hereof, and that any party may in its sole discretion apply to any court of law or equity of competent jurisdiction (without posting any bond or deposit) for specific performance and/or other injunctive relief in order to enforce or prevent any violations of the provisions of this Agreement.
3.12 .
Remedies
. To ensure a clear understanding of this Agreement, Executive agrees, at the time of termination of Employee's employment, to engage in an exit interview with the Company at a time and place designated by the Company and at the Company's expense. Executive understands and agrees that during said exit interview, Executive may be required to confirm that he will comply with his on-going obligations under this Agreement. The Company may elect, at its option, to conduct the exit interview by telephone.
3.13
Exit Interview
. Executive shall disclose the existence of this Agreement to any new employer or potential new employer which offers products or services that compete with the Company's Business if such new employment commences within two (2) years following Executive's termination of employment with the Company. Executive consents to the Company informing any subsequent employer of Executive, or any entity which the Company in good faith believes is, or is likely to be, considering employing Executive, of the existence and terms of this Agreement if such subsequent employment commences (or is expected to commence) within two (2) years following the Executive's termination of employment with the Company.
3.14
Future Employment
. Executive will be reimbursed for reasonable professional fees that he incurs in connection with the negotiation and documentation of the employment arrangements reflected herein, subject to applicable withholding for taxes.
3.15
Expenses
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Employment Agreement this 14th day of February, 2011 and effective as of the date first written above.
 
 


