FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20110506152450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03.
At the annual meeting of shareholders of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation ("the Company") held on May 3, 2011 (the "2011 Annual Meeting"), the shareholders approved two amendments to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation (the "Amendments"). The text of the Amendments and the description of such Amendments on pages 58-59 under the caption "Amendments to Article Eleventh and Article Twelfth of the Certificate of Incorporation, as Amended" in the Proxy Statement of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation dated March 14, 2011 (the "Proxy Statement"), are filed as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, respectively, and incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and all amendments is filed as Exhibit 3(a) hereto.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
As indicated above, on May 3, 2011, the Company held the Annual Meeting. Of the 121,801,532 shares outstanding and entitled to vote, 107,541,310 shares were represented at the meetings, or an 88.29% quorum. The final results for each of the matters submitted to a vote of shareholders at the Annual Meeting are as follows:
Item No. 1:
All of the board's nominees for director were elected to serve until the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting or until their respective successors are elected and qualified by the shareholders, by the votes set forth in the table below:
 
Item No. 2:
The material terms of the performance criteria for the Company's performance-based awards under the Amended and Restated 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan were approved by the shareholders, by the votes set forth in the table below
 
Item No. 3:
The appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accountant for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 was ratified by the shareholders by the votes set forth in the table below:
 
Item No. 4:
The amendment to Article Eleventh of the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, as described in the Proxy Statement was approved by the shareholders by the vote set forth in the table below:
 
Item No. 5:
The amendment to Article Twelfth of the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, as described in the Proxy Statement was approved by the shareholders by the vote set forth in the table below:
 
Item No. 6:
The approval on a non-binding advisory basis, of the Company's named executive officer compensation, as disclosed in the Proxy Statement by the vote set forth in the table below:
 
Item No. 7:
The determination of the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation (every one, two or three years) received the non-binding advisory votes set forth in the table below:
 
The Board of Directors will take into account these results in determining the frequency it shall call for an advisory vote on executive compensation.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) . See Exhibit Index.
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 6, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 3(a)
SIGMA-ALDRICH CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
FIRST: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of SIGMA-ALDRICH CORPORATION resolutions were duly adopted setting forth proposed amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation of said corporation, declaring said amendments to be advisable and submitting the amendments to the stockholders of the Company for approval. The resolutions adopted the proposed amendments hereinafter set forth in Paragraphs THIRD and FOURTH.
SECOND: That thereafter, pursuant to resolution of its Board of Directors, an Annual Meeting of the stockholders of said corporation was duly called and held, at which meeting the necessary number of shares as required by statute were voted in favor of the amendments.
THIRD: In accordance with the above actions, Article ELEVENTH of the Certificate of Incorporation is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new Article ELEVENTH:
ELEVENTH: The corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation; provided, however, in no event shall this Article Eleventh or Article Twelfth be amended, altered, changed or repealed with less than an affirmative vote of the holders of at least the majority of all the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders called for such purpose.
FOURTH: In accordance with the above actions, Paragraph (a) of Article TWELFTH of the Certificate of Incorporation is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new Paragraph (a) of Article TWELFTH:
(a) The approval of any Business Combination shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least the majority of all the outstanding stock of the corporation entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders called for such purpose.
FIFTH: That said amendments were duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, said SIGMA-ALDRICH CORPORATION has caused this Certificate to be signed by , its , this th day of May, 2011.
                    
                    
    
 


