FILE:SIAL/SIAL-8K-20120209082656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 9, 2012, Sigma-Aldrich issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter operating results for the period ended December 31, 2011. This press release and certain supplemental information are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 9, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release regarding the financial outlook for the forth quarter ending December 31, 2011. This press release and certain supplemental information are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 9, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
3050 Spruce Street, St. Louis, MO 63103 USA
Tel: (800) 521-8956 (314) 771-5765    Fax: (800) 325-5052 (314) 771-5757
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - St. Louis, MO, February 9, 2012
:
HIGHLIGHTS
2011 Results (all percentages are to comparable periods in 2010)
Q4 Results
 
 
 
Full Year 2011 Results
 
 
 
 
2012 Outlook (all percentages are compared to full year 2011 results)
 
 
2012 Outlook - Continued
 
 
:
CEO's STATEMENT
Commenting on 2011 performance, President and CEO Rakesh Sachdev said: "Our overall performance for 2011 resulted in another record year for Sigma-Aldrich in sales and earnings per share ("EPS") as we delivered EPS growth for our 37
th
consecutive year. The Research business in the U.S. was impacted by challenging market conditions and funding uncertainties in the early weeks of the fourth quarter. These conditions reduced our Q4 growth rates in Research in the U.S. below those realized in the first three quarters of the year. We continued to invest a substantial amount of capital to drive growth in our focus markets of China, India and Brazil where we achieved organic sales growth of 17%. Including our acquisition of Vetec, the sales growth was 29% in these countries. We invested over $73 million in these countries in 2011.
SAFC had its strongest quarter of the year in Q4 with sales of $185 million, a 7% organic gain. We are pleased with SAFC's strong results with full year organic sales growth of 9% in 2011 compared to 2010. We continued to see strong growth from the Hitech business which performed well throughout the year. The custom pharmaceutical business had low double digit growth in Q4 to end the year stronger than it has for several years. The industrial media business sales for the quarter were equal to Q4 2010 and reflected the impact of timing of customer purchases.
We recently announced the completion of the acquisition of BioReliance, a global leader in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical quality assurance and quality control testing market. This is a strong business with excellent growth prospects which we feel we can enhance given the unique position we have as a highly regarded global supplier to the same customer base as BioReliance. I am pleased to welcome the more than 650 BioReliance employees to the Sigma-Aldrich family.
For 2012, we expect to grow sales organically in the mid single digit range consistent with our 2011 performance. In addition, the acquisition of BioReliance will add roughly 5% to Sigma-Aldrich's sales growth in 2012. And, our acquisition pipeline remains robust. Our long-term objective remains to achieve above market rate organic sales growth and enhance that through contributions from technology platforms and strategic acquisitions. Our diluted EPS is expected to increase to a range of $3.90 to $4.05 despite a less favorable currency environment and a higher tax rate. We will approach 2012 with the same passion and energy that drove success in the past. Our plan to continue prudent control on costs without sacrificing commitment to longer term growth initiatives should help in mitigating market uncertainties.
 
:
2011 RESULTS
Reported sales for the fourth quarter of 2011 of $610 million increased 5% over the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding acquisitions, which contributed 2% to sales growth, fourth quarter organic sales growth was 3%. Throughout the fourth quarter, weakening foreign currencies reduced otherwise reportable sales in U.S. dollars. Fourth quarter sales for the Company's Research business grew organically by 1%, driven primarily by growth in the Asia PacificLatin American region. Fourth quarter sales for the SAFC business grew organically by 7% over the fourth quarter of 2010. Sales in the focus markets of India, China and Brazil grew organically 17%. A reconciliation of reported to adjusted (organic) sales can be found on page 10.
The adjusted operating income margin in the fourth quarter of 2011 was 26.2% of sales compared to 24.2% of sales, excluding restructuring charges, in the fourth quarter of 2010. Operating income margins benefited from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and SG&A productivity initiatives. A reconciliation of reported to adjusted operating income margin is provided on page 11.
The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2011 was 32% compared to 27% in the fourth quarter of 2010. The higher tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2011 is primarily attributable to a reduced R&D tax credit benefit and a one-time tax charge in 2011 of $0.02 per diluted EPS related to an ongoing tax audit in one of our international subsidiaries.
Free cash flow (defined on page 9) for 2011 was $391 million, compared to $424 million for 2010. Higher net income was largely offset by a higher level of working capital, primarily due to planned inventory increases aimed at improving service levels to our customers and slightly higher capital expenditures to support planned strategic growth initiatives. A reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow is provided on page 11.
Other highlights include:
 
 
:
2012 OUTLOOK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
OTHER INFORMATION
Net cash provided by operating activities for year ended December 31, 2011 was $495 million compared to $523 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The cash flow contribution from higher net income in 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 was partially offset by increases in working capital due to planned higher inventory to enhance service levels and support the higher sales growth rates in the Asia Pacific-Latin American region. Capital expenditures were $104 million in 2011 compared to $99 million in 2010. Free cash flow of $391 million for 2011 was used primarily to pay $86 million in dividends, return $134 million to shareholders through share repurchases, repay $100 million of long-term debt and fund $75 million of acquisitions. The Company's debt to capital ratio was 19% at December 31, 2011 and 21% at December 31, 2010.
:
Cash Flow and Debt
No shares were repurchased in the fourth quarter of 2011. In 2011 the Company repurchased 2.1 million shares at an average price of $62.07.There were 121 million shares outstanding at December 31, 2011. The Company expects to continue to offset the dilutive impact of issuing share based incentive compensation with future repurchases. The Company may repurchase additional shares, but the timing and amount will depend upon market conditions and other factors.
:
Share Repurchases
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to future performance, goals, strategic actions and initiatives and similar intentions and beliefs, including phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "enhance," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "plan," "will" and other similar statements, words or phrases regarding the Company's expectations, outlook, plans, beliefs,
:
Cautionary Statement
 
intentions and the like regarding future sales, earnings, free cash flow, share repurchases, acquisitions and other matters. These statements are based on assumptions regarding Company operations, investments and acquisitions and conditions in the markets the Company serves. The Company believes these assumptions are reasonable and well founded. The forward-looking statements in this release are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in this release due to such factors as (1) global economic conditions, (2) changes in pricing and the competitive environment and the global demand for our products, (3) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, (4) changes in research funding and the success of research and development activities, (5) failure of planned sales initiatives in our Research and SAFC businesses, (6) dependence on uninterrupted manufacturing operations, (7) failure to achieve planned cost reductions in global supply chain initiatives and restructuring actions, (8) changes in the regulatory environment in which the Company operates, (9) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations, including the matters described in Note 10  Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the "10-K"), (10) exposure to litigation, including product liability claims, (11) the ability to maintain adequate quality standards, (12) reliance on third party package delivery services, (13) an unanticipated increase in interest rates, (14) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates, (15) the outcome of the outstanding matters described in Note 11  Contingent Liabilities and Commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the 10-K and (16) acquisitions or divestitures of businesses. A further discussion of the Company's risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of the 10-K. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Sigma-Aldrich is a leading and company whose biochemical, organic chemical products, kits and services are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostics and high technology manufacturing. Sigma-Aldrich customers include more than one million scientists and technologists in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and industry. The Company operates in 40 countries and has nearly 9,000 employees whose objective is to provide excellent service worldwide. Sigma-Aldrich is committed to accelerating customer success through innovation and leadership in , and . For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, please visit its website, at .
:
About Sigma-Aldrich
Life Science
High Technology
Life Science
High Technology
Service
www.sigma-aldrich.com
The Company supplements its disclosures made in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (i.e., U.S. GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Company's industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure. See the Supplemental Financial Information on pages 10 and 11 for these reconciliations.
:
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
With over 60% of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management uses currency adjusted sales growth when analyzing Company performance, and believes it is useful as well to investors to judge the Company's performance. Organic sales growth data presented in this release excludes currency and acquisitions impacts. The Company calculates the impact of changes in foreign
 
currency exchange rates by multiplying current period activity by the difference between current period exchange rates and prior period exchange rates. The result is the defined impact of "changes in foreign currency exchange rates." While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur later in 2012 to applicable exchange rates. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on reported growth rates due to the volume of sales denominated in foreign currencies.
Management also uses the following non-GAAP measures to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value: adjusted net income and EPS; adjusted operating income margin (reconciled on page 11); free cash flow (defined on page 9). Due to the uncertain timing of future restructuring and other special charges, we are unable to include these charges in the 2012 diluted adjusted EPS forecast or provide a reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP measures. Management believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as well.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales Growth by Business Unit
 
Business Unit Sales
(in millions)
 
 
Reconciliation of Reported net income to Adjusted net income
 
Income Statement Ratios
 
Reconciliation of Reported Operating Income Margin to Adjusted Operating Income Margin
 
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow
(in millions)
 
 



