FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20041222161551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant.s Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant.s Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.05. Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics.
 
On December 16, 2004, the Board of Directors of Lennar Corporation (the "Company") adopted amendments to the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to modify or clarify the Company's policies regarding (1) consequences relating to violations of the Code; (2) compliance with laws, rules and regulations relating to business practices between associates, officers or directors of the Company and any of the Company's current or prospective vendors, suppliers, contractors or customers, as well as competitors and governmental agencies; (3) conflicts of interest relating to (i) transactions with the Company, (ii) non-Company business, and (iii) gifts, favors or personal incentives; (4) the composition of the Conflicts Committee; (5) procedures relating to confidential and anonymous reporting to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors; and (6) compliance with policies prohibiting harassment and discrimination in employment. A copy of the Company's amended Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is included as Exhibit 14.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is available on the Company's website at .
www.lennar.com
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)
Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 14.1
 
 
Purpose and Scope
 
Since its founding, Lennar Corporation (Lennar) has required that all its associates maintain the highest level of integrity in their dealings on behalf of the Company (i.e., Lennar and its subsidiaries), in their dealings with the Company, and in everything affecting the Company's relationships with its banks, with its security holders and with others with whom the Company does business. The Company believes the high level of integrity with which it conducts its affairs has been a major factor in the Company's success.
 
This Code of Business Conduct and Ethics ("Code") is intended to document the principles of conduct and ethics to be followed by the Company's associates, officers, and directors, including its principal executive officer, its principal financial officer and its principal accounting officer. Its purpose is to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company will expect all its associates, officers, and directors to comply at all times with the principles in this Code. Violations of this Code by an associate or officer or director are grounds for disciplinary action up to and including immediate termination of employment and forfeiture of any earned or unearned bonus and possible legal prosecution.
 
Fair Dealing
 
 
 
Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations (Including Insider Trading Laws)
 
 
 
 
Conflicts of Interest
 
 
(1) : When an associate, officer, or director, or a member of his or her family, will benefit personally from something the associate, officer, or director does or fails to do that is not in the best interests of the Company,
Action or Inaction
 
(2) : When an associate, officer, or director takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult to perform his or her Company work objectively and effectively,
Objectivity
 
(3) : When an associate, officer or director, or a member of his or her family, receives personal benefits from somebody other than the Company as a result of his or her position in the Company which are not generally available to all the Company's associates, or at least to all associates in the same area of work or the same geographic area. Loans to, or guarantees of obligations of, associates, officers, or directors by persons with whom the Company does business are of special concern. Loans to any officer or director by persons with whom the Company does business require specific approval of the Conflicts Committee, and
Personal Benefits
 
(4) : When an associate, officer, or director engages in any activity that is competitive with the business activities and operations conducted from time to time by the Company. Any ownership interest, whether active or passive, in any other homebuilder, land developer, or mortgage lender or title company would be considered a competitive activity, other than investments in publicly traded securities that are listed on a recognized securities exchange or securities quotation system not exceeding one (1) percent of the outstanding securities of a class or series.
Competing Activities
 
 
(1) : An associate, officer, or director may make real estate investments in noncompetitive activities, including investments in raw land and income producing properties, if the involvement of the associate, officer, or director does not require active participation in planning or zoning changes, processing government approvals, or other development work with respect to the raw land, and as long as such activities in general do not in any way interfere with the associate's, officer's, or director's duties owed to the Company.
Real Estate Investments
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no associate, officer, or director may acquire a direct or indirect interest in raw land (except land upon which to construct a personal residence) (a) within a twenty-five (25) mile radius of a present or proposed community of the Company, without the prior written consent of the applicable one of the Conflicts Committee or the Audit Committee of Lennar's Board. Such written notice shall include giving Lennar the opportunity to acquire such land on the same terms and conditions as those on which such associate, officer, or director proposes to acquire the land. Any such offer must be delivered in writing to the Conflicts Committee, which will forward it to the Asset Management Committee. If the Company does not accept an offer within ten days after the written offer is delivered to the Conflicts Committee, Lennar will be deemed to have waived its right to acquire the land, and the associate, officer, or director may, within six months after the end of the ten day period, acquire the land on terms no more favorable to the purchaser than those stated in the written offer delivered to the Conflicts Committee.
 
(2) : No associate, officer, or director, or member of the immediate family (defined below) of an associate, officer, or director, may sell, lease or buy any kind of property, facility, equipment or service directly or indirectly from or to the Company other than on market terms or under policies, such as policies regarding home purchase prices or favorable financing terms, available to all associates at a similar employment level. Any exceptions to this policy must have written approval of the Conflicts Committee. All processing and execution of sales contracts and closing statements related to home or homesite sales to associates must be handled by the President of the Division where the home or homesite is located, with approval by the appropriate Regional President.
Transactions with the Company
 
No associate of the Company shall act as a general contractor for construction of his or her personal residence or as a general contractor for any construction other than for the Company. An unpaid leave of absence will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the appropriate Regional President for an associate desiring to act as a general contractor for the construction of his or her personal residence.
 
Associates, officers, or directors that utilize subcontractors or vendors with which the Company does business to perform maintenance and repair to their personal residences will pay for these services at a rate that is available to all associates in the applicable geographic area.
 
(3) : No full-time associate will engage in any part-time employment, business consulting arrangements or other business activities without written approval from (a) the Conflicts Committee, if such associate is an officer, (b) from the CEO or COO if a Regional or Division President, or (c) from the applicable Division President, corporate officer, or comparable Lennar Financial Services position, if not an officer, Regional or Division President.
Other Business Activities
 
New home consultants may not receive commissions on any real estate sales made outside the Company during their employment with the Company, unless specifically approved by the appropriate Division President. No associate is permitted to conduct non-Company business of any kind from any Company location, including, without limitation, Welcome Home Centers.
 
(4) : No associate, officer, or director may accept any gift, favor, or personal incentive, including vacations, excursions, etc., other than those of a noncash nature in accordance with customary business practices as described below, from a current or prospective vendor, supplier, contractor or customer or other person with which the Company does business. Associates, officers and directors are also prohibited from giving any gifts, favors or personal incentives, other than those of a noncash nature in accordance with customary business practices as described below, to any current or prospective vendor, supplier, contractor or customer or other person with which the Company does business. Any exceptions to the foregoing, such as golfing, fishing, or hunting trips, etc., of no more than two working days' duration, which are not unreasonable or non-customary in cost or scope, and tickets to spectator events, may be permitted, but only if, in each instance, such trip or spectator event is disclosed to and approved in writing by (a) the Conflicts Committee, if such associate is an officer, regional president, or division president, or (b) the appropriate division president, corporate officer, or comparable Lennar Financial Services associate, if such associate is not an officer, regional president or division president. However, in all events these gifts should be given or received infrequently and their value should be modest.
Gifts, etc.
 
The term "customary business practices" is meant to include business-related gifts such as meals and other modestly priced or valued (no more than $100.00) tokens of goodwill. Cash or its equivalents may be offered or accepted. Further, no associate, officer, or director may solicit or accept or give any money, gift, favor, service or other tangible or intangible benefit or service from or to any associate of the Company or any current or prospective vendor, supplier, contractor or customer or other person with which the Company does business, even if it is otherwise permitted by this Code, in exchange for anything involving the performance of the person's responsibilities on behalf of the Company or a third party, or under circumstances that might impair that person's judgment as to what is in the best interests of the Company or a third party, as applicable, or is intended in any way to improperly influence that person.
never
 
(5) : Where an immediate family member (parent, parent-in-law, spouse, child, or son or daughter-in-law, or any other adult relative living in the same household) of any associate, officer, or director is involved in a transaction with the Company, all payments, commissions, fees, or other remuneration to such family member must be disclosed to and approved in advance by the Conflicts Committee.
Transactions with Family Members
 
 
 
director, the person who becomes aware of the situation must promptly report it to (a) the Conflicts Committee, (b) the General Counsel of Lennar or (c) the Division President or Financial Services equivalent within which the particular associate or officer works. Any report of a situation that is made to the general counsel or to the Division President or Lennar Financial Services equivalent will be passed on to the applicable one of the Conflicts Committee or the Audit Committee of Lennar's Board of Directors. When there is any question of whether a conflict of interest is present and should be disclosed, all associates, officers, and directors should resolve any doubt in favor of full disclosure.
 
 
 
Conflicts Committee
 
The Conflicts Committee shall consist of Robert Strudler, Bruce Gross and Frank Matthews or their duly appointed successors as Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Financial Officer and Director of Human Resources. No Conflicts Committee member may pass judgment on a possible conflict of interest or appearance of conflict involving that member.
 
The Conflicts Committee shall keep written records of all findings and matters brought before it. A quorum of at least two Conflicts Committee members is required in order for the Conflicts Committee to take formal action.
 
Corporate Opportunities
 
 
1) take for himself or herself personally any opportunity of which he or she becomes aware, or to which he or she obtains access, through the use of corporate property, information or position;
 
2) make it possible for somebody other than the Company to take advantage of an opportunity in any of the Company's areas of business of which the associate, officer, or director becomes aware in the course of his or her activities on behalf of the Company, unless the Company has expressly decided not to attempt to take advantage of the opportunity;
 
3) otherwise use corporate property, information, or position for personal gain; or
 
4) compete with the Company generally or with regard to specific transactions or opportunities.
 
 
Confidentiality
 
 
 
 
Protection and Proper Use of Company Assets
 
 
 
Change in or Waiver of the Code
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compliance
 
 
violation of this Code to the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Lennar's Board. Failure to report a violation can lead to disciplinary action against the person who failed to report the violation which may be as severe as the disciplinary action against the person who committed the violation.
 
 
 
 
 
Concerns about (a) the Company's operations, (b) the Company's financial reporting, (c) the Company's business integrity, or (d) any other matter related to the Company, can be submitted confidentially and anonymously to the non-management directors of our Board of Directors in the following manner:
 
 
 
 
Terms used in this Code
 
 
 


