FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20040318163631.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Required FD Disclosure.
 
During its fiscal quarter ended February 29, 2004, Lennar Corporation and subsidiaries had consolidated net earnings of $139.3 million ($0.84 per share diluted) on revenues of $1.9 billion, compared with net earnings of $106.3 million ($0.68 per share diluted) on revenues of $1.6 billion in the quarter ended February 28, 2003.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit to it, is being furnished and should not be deemed "filed" for the purpose of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. This Current Report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as may be expressly set forth by specific reference in a registration statement or other filing.
 
On March 16, 2004, Lennar Corporation issued a press release containing information about its results of operations for the first fiscal quarter ended February 29, 2004. A copy of this press release is included as an exhibit to this Report.
 
Our press release included our earnings before interest and provision for income taxes ("EBIT") for the quarter ended February 29, 2004, as well as a table reconciling the computation of EBIT to our earnings for that period. EBIT is not a financial measure in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Nonetheless, our management uses EBIT because it helps them compare the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations with those of our competitors, by eliminating factors that differ from company to company for reasons that often are not related to the effectiveness of the companies' operations. Our management believes EBIT provides useful information to investors and analysts because it will help them compare the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations with those of our competitors.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 18, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
First Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2004 Goal
 
 
, one of the nation's largest homebuilders, today reported earnings for its first quarter ended February 29, 2004. First quarter net earnings in 2004 were $139.3 million, or $0.84 per share diluted, compared to net earnings of $106.3 million, or $0.68 per share diluted, in 2003.
Miami, March 16, 2004  Lennar Corporation (NYSE: LEN and LEN.B)
 
2-2-2
 
Stuart Miller, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lennar Corporation, said, "We are pleased to report another record quarter of revenues and earnings. We are even more pleased with our record new orders and record backlog, both growing 30% over last year, closing the acquisition of The Newhall Land and Farming Company and improving prospects for our financial services operations - all combining to set us up for another record year in 2004 and positioning us well for 2005 and beyond."
 
Mr. Miller continued, "Three basic concepts will help support and possibly expand future earnings: First, Positive demographic trends, favorable interest rates and supply constraints continue to drive the underpinnings of a strong housing market. Second, - Gross margins remain strong for the industry in general and for Lennar in particular. As demand exceeds supply in strategic markets, pricing power continues to enhance margins. While price increases may be somewhat offset by increases in lumber and other materials costs, in the long-term, we, as well as others in the industry, continue to use our size to reduce costs overall while also improving quality. Third, - We continue to target unique opportunities within the industry by increasing market share organically and by the consolidation of small and large homebuilders. Consolidation results in greater cost savings, increased access to the capital markets and growth of ancillary services."
Homebuilding Industry Fundamentals
-
Strong Gross Margins
Industry Consolidation
 
"Additionally, we remain a growth-focused company and, therefore, we employ a diversified growth strategy to enhance future opportunities for our Company. Our diversified growth strategy focuses on organic growth augmented by strategic acquisitions to capitalize on market inefficiencies. One exciting example of this strategy is our previously announced and now closed acquisition, through a joint venture, of The Newhall Land and Farming Company, located in Los Angeles County, California. This unique transaction gives us access to well-positioned, owned or controlled homesites in one of the most supply-constrained markets in the country. This strategic opportunity will not only allow us to enhance our existing homebuilding operations in Los Angeles County, but will also give us the opportunity to establish a dual marketing division in this land-constrained market which should further enhance our return on capital."
 
Mr. Miller concluded, "The combination of our excellent land position and record-level $4.5 billion backlog gives us confidence to meet our goal of 37,000 deliveries in 2004. This position also allows us to maximize our pricing power by slowing our sales pace to match our construction pace. Given the continued strength in our program and assuming overall housing and general economic conditions remain consistent with current trends, we are comfortable increasing our 2004 earnings per share goal to $5.30 from $5.25 per share."
3-3-3
 
 
 
Homebuilding
 
Revenues from sales of homes increased 15% in the first quarter of 2004 to $1.7 billion from $1.4 billion in 2003. Revenues were higher due primarily to a 15% increase in the number of home deliveries. New home deliveries increased to 6,495 homes in the first quarter of 2004 from 5,642 homes last year. In the first quarter of 2004, new home deliveries were higher in each of the Company's regions, compared to 2003. The average sales price on homes delivered increased to $256,000 in the first quarter of 2004 from $255,000 in 2003.
 
Gross margins on home sales were $373.8 million, or 22.5%, in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $314.2 million, or 21.8%, in 2003. Margins were positively impacted by a greater improvement in each of the Company's regions, with the largest increases in the East and West Regions, combined with lower interest costs due to a lower debt leverage ratio while the Company continued to grow.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues from home sales were 12.2% in the first quarter of 2004, compared to 12.1% in 2003.
 
Gross profits on land sales totaled $35.6 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $4.4 million in 2003. Profits were positively impacted by each of the Company's regions, with a strong contribution from the Company's West Region. Equity in earnings from unconsolidated partnerships was $5.3 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $8.6 million last year. Management fees and other income, net totaled $18.0 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $5.4 million in 2003. Land sales, equity in earnings from unconsolidated partnerships and management fees and other income, net may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of land sales and other transactions by the Company and unconsolidated partnerships in which it has investments.
 
Financial Services
 
Operating earnings for the Financial Services Division were $23.0 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $34.3 million last year. The decline in operating earnings in 2004 was primarily due to a decrease in refinance transactions, which resulted in reduced profitability from the Division's mortgage and title operations, compared to 2003.
4-4-4
 
Corporate General and Administrative Expenses
 
Corporate general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues were 1.5% in the first quarter of 2004, compared to 1.4% last year.
 
Other Information
 
Earnings per share amounts and average shares outstanding for 2003 have been adjusted to reflect the effect of the Company's April 2003 10% Class B common stock distribution and January 2004 two-for-one stock split. Additionally, diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2004 included 9.0 million shares related to the Company's 5.125% contingent convertible debt securities. These shares were not included in diluted earnings per share in the first quarter of 2003 because the contingencies were not met.
 
Prior year amounts contain reclassifications to conform to the 2004 presentation. These reclassifications had no impact on reported net earnings. In the three months ended February 28, 2003, homebuilding results reflect reclassifications that have been made to interest expense (now included in cost of homes sold and cost of land sold), equity in earnings from unconsolidated partnerships and management fees and other income, net.
 
Lennar Corporation, founded in 1954, is headquartered in Miami, Florida and is one of the nation's leading builders of quality homes for all generations, building affordable, move-up and retirement homes. Under the Lennar Family of Builders banner, the Company includes the following brand names: Lennar Homes, U.S. Home, Greystone Homes, Village Builders, Renaissance Homes, Orrin Thompson Homes, Lundgren Bros., Winncrest Homes, Patriot Homes, NuHome, Barry Andrews Homes, Concord Homes, Cambridge Homes, Coleman Homes and Rutenberg Homes. The Company's active adult communities are primarily marketed under the Heritage and Greenbriar brand names. Lennar's Financial Services Division provides mortgage financing, title insurance, closing services and insurance agency services for both buyers of the Company's homes and others. Its Strategic Technologies Division provides high-speed Internet access, cable television and alarm installation and monitoring services to residents of the Company's communities and others. Previous press releases may be obtained at www.lennar.com.
5-5-5
 
Some of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those which the statements anticipate. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They contain words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "may," "can," "could," "might," "guidance," "goal," "visibility," and other words or phrases of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Factors which may affect the Company's results include, but are not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, the market for homes and prices for homes generally and in areas where the Company has developments, the availability and cost of land suitable for residential development, materials prices, labor costs, interest rates, consumer confidence, competition, terrorist acts or other acts of war, environmental factors and government regulations affecting the Company's operations. See the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2003 for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to the Company's business.
 
A conference call to discuss the Company's first quarter earnings will be held at 11:00 AM Eastern time on Wednesday, March 17, 2004. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed through the Company's web site at www.lennar.com. A replay of the conference call will be available later that day by calling 320-365-3844 and entering 723412 as the confirmation number.
 
6-6-6
 
 
 
7-7-7
 
 
 
8-8-8
 
 
 
Lennar's market regions consist of homebuilding divisions in the following states:
 
9-9-9
 
 
 


