FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20050705172755.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.03.
 
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On June 28, 2005, the Board of Directors of Lennar Corporation (the Company) voted (with Messrs. Miller and Saiotz abstaining), in accordance with Article XI of the Companys By-Laws, to amend Section 5.3 of the By-Laws, effective immediately.
Section 5.3 of the By-laws requires appointment of an Independent Directors Committee (the "Committee"), consisting of three or more directors, none of whom is an officer or employee of the Company, and none of whom is a security holder, director, officer or employee of LNR Property Corporation (LNR) or one of its subsidiaries, to review significant transactions involving the Company or one of its subsidiaries and LNR or one of its subsidiaries. The purpose of the amendment to Section 5.3 is to simplify that section and limit the number of transactions that will require approval of the Committee.
Section 5.3 currently contains detailed provisions requiring approval of (1) transactions between the Company and LNR, (2) significant transactions by entities of which the Company and LNR each owns at least 25% of the equity (referred to as Jointly-Owned Entities), and (3) transactions between the Company and Jointly-Owned Entities. Specifically, Section 5.3 currently requires that the Committee approve:
In addition, Section 5.3 currently requires that the President of the Company report to the Committee with regard to the exercise of options to purchase properties or other assets from Jointly-Owned Entities at least once each fiscal quarter, and, in any event, each time the aggregate sum paid and not previously reported exceeds $25 million.
As amended, the revised Section 5.3 requires Committee approval for the Company or a subsidiary of the Company  to:
 
The text of the amended Section 5.3 is included as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The Committee recommended to the Board the amendment of Section 5.3 of the By-Laws based upon (i) a review of the appropriate materiality threshold regarding transactions involving  both the Company and LNR and (ii) changes in the ownership of LNR, which reduce the likelihood of conflicts of interest arising from transactions involving both the Company and LNR.
1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Exhibit No.
 
 
Description of Document
3.1       
   
   
Section 5.3 of the By-Laws of Lennar Corporation, as amended.
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 5, 2005
LENNAR CORPORATION
 
By:     
/s/ Waynewright Malcolm                            
Name: Waynewright Malcolm
Title:   Vice President and Treasurer
 
Exhibit No.
 
 
Description of Document
3.1       
   
   
Section 5.3 of the By-Laws of Lennar Corporation, as amended.

Exhibit 3.1
 
5.3 
(a)
 
The Board of Directors shall appoint an Independent Directors Committee consisting of three or more Directors, none of whom is an officer or employee of the Corporation or of a subsidiary of the Corporation, and none of whom is a securityholder,
 
director, officer or employee of LNR Property Corporation (LNR) or a subsidiary of LNR. The Chairman of the Independent Directors Committee shall be selected by the Committee.
 
(b)
 
The Corporation may not take, or permit any of its more than 50% owned subsidiaries to take, any of the following actions, and the Board of Directors may not approve or authorize any of the following actions (if its approval or authorization is required), unless the action has been approved by the Independent Directors Committee:
 
(i)
 
Enter into, or agree to enter into, any transaction or series of related transactions with LNR or any entity of which LNR owns more than 25% of the equity (together with LNR, an LNR Entity) that will involve more than $50 million, based upon total debt and equity commitments to be made by the Corporation or its subsidiary or the value of assets to be transferred to or received by the Corporation or its subsidiary.
 
(ii)
 
Incur, or agree to incur, an actual or contingent obligation to satisfy liabilities of an LNR entity totaling more than $50 million.
 
(iii)
 
Take action (or authorize its representatives to take action) to authorize an entity of which the Corporation owns directly or through subsidiaries more than 25%, but not more than 50%, of the equity to enter into, or agree to enter into, a transaction with an LNR Entity that will involve, or to incur an actual or contingent obligation to satisfy liabilities of an LNR Entity totalling, more than (x) $50 million divided by (y) the percentage of the equity of the entity that is owned by the Corporation directly or through subsidiaries.
 
(iv)
 
Approval of an agreement by the Independent Directors Committee will, unless the Independent Directors Committee states otherwise when it approves the agreement, constitute approval of all transactions required by the agreement.
 
(v)
 
For the purposes of this Section 5.3, a material amendment of an agreement will constitute the entering into of a new agreement.
 
(c)
 
The Independent Directors Committee may, at the request of the Board of Directors or of the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, review or investigate any transaction or matter involving the Corporation or a subsidiary, whether or not the transaction or matter involves LNR or a subsidiary.
 


