FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20051003164646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 30, 2005, the Board of Directors of Lennar Corporation appointed Jeffrey Sonnenfeld to serve on the Company's Board of Directors. The Board also named Mr. Sonnenfeld to its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
 
A press release announcing Mr. Sonnenfeld's appointment is included as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MIAMI, September 30, 2005 --
 
Lennar Corporation (NYSE: LEN and LEN.B)
announced that the Companys Board of Directors has appointed Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, the Senior Associate Dean for Executive Programs and the Lester Crown Professor-in-the-Practice of Management for the Yale School of Management, to serve as an independent member of the Board.
Professor Sonnenfelds appointment increases the size of the Companys Board to ten members, and increases the number of independent directors, as defined under the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance standards, to seven.
Professor Sonnenfeld, 51, is the Founder and President of The Chief Executive Leadership Institute of Yale University. The Institute is the nations first CEO College and each year brings together hundreds of CEOs, regulators, accounting professionals and shareholder activists for educational forums. The Institute is dedicated to the advancement of top leadership education and corporate governance through scholarly research and peer-driven educational programs.
 
We are pleased to add an individual with Jeff Sonnenfelds outstanding experience and qualifications to our Board of Directors, said Robert Strudler, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Lennar Corporation. We believe that Jeffs business acumen and experience, as well as his exceptional work in the areas of corporate governance and leadership development will provide our Company invaluable insight at a time when good governance is a priority for management, shareholders and the investment community.
2-2-2
Previously, Professor Sonnenfeld served as a Professor at the Goizueta Business School of Emory University. At Emory, Professor Sonnenfeld founded the Center for Leadership & Career Studies, which he directed for eight years. Before his service at Emory, Professor Sonnenfeld spent ten years as a professor at the Harvard Business School. His research, publications and consulting address issues of top leadership development, executive succession and board governance. Professor Sonnenfeld also comments on the human side of management as demonstrated by his authorship of
What Makes Great Boards Great
, a prominent article published by
Harvard Business Review
. His book,
The Heros Farewell
-
What Happens When CEOs Retire
(Oxford University Press), was celebrated by
BusinessWeek
and
The Financial Times
as the standard new management book of the decade. His research in corporate governance is demonstrated by his latest book,
Leadership and Governance from the Inside Out
(John Wiley & Sons).
Professor Sonnenfeld is an active consultant to boards and CEOs of major corporations on top leadership issues. He is also a frequent media commentator on matters of leadership and corporate governance.
 
Lennar Corporation, founded in 1954, is headquartered in Miami, Florida and is one of the nation's leading builders of quality homes for all generations, building affordable, move-up and retirement homes. The Company operates primarily under the Lennar and U.S. Home brand names and utilizes a Dual Marketing strategy consisting of the Everything's Included and Design Studio
SM
programs. Lennars Financial Services Division provides mortgage financing, title insurance, closing services and insurance agency services for both buyers of the Companys homes and others. Its Strategic Technologies Division provides high-speed Internet and cable television services to residents of the Companys communities and others. Previous press releases may be obtained at www.lennar.com.


