FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20060502143825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On April 26, 2006, Lennar Corporation ("Lennar") issued $250 million principal amount of 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011 and $250 million principal amount of 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (together, the "Notes"). The Notes are guaranteed by Lennar's wholly-owned subsidiaries, other than its finance company subsidiaries and any foreign subsidiaries (the "Guarantors").
The Notes were issued under Indentures dated as of April 26, 2006 among Lennar, the Guarantors and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Events of Default under the Indentures, which may entitle the trustee or the holders to accelerate Lennar's obligations under the Notes, include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Notes were sold to Initial Purchasers pursuant to a Purchase Agreement dated April 19, 2006 for resale in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Lennar agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Notes that will be identical with the Notes that were sold on April 26, 2006, and to offer to exchange those registered Notes for like principal amounts of the Notes that were sold on April 26, 2006.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit No. 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. means Not Applicable.
Note: This cross-reference table shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of April 26, 2006, among L C, a Delaware corporation (the ""), each of the Guarantors party hereto and J.P. M T C, as Trustee (the "").
ENNAR
ORPORATION
Company
ORGAN
RUST
OMPANY
Trustee
The Company has duly authorized the creation of an issue of its 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series A, and its 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series B, to be issued in exchange for the 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series A, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement (as defined herein) and, to provide therefor, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture. All things necessary to make the Notes (as defined), when duly issued and executed by the Company, and authenticated and delivered hereunder, the valid obligations of the Company, and to make this Indenture a valid and binding agreement of the Company, have been done.
Each party hereto agrees as follows for the benefit of the other parties and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders (as defined) of the Company's 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series A and Series B.
Section 1.1. Definitions.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-Registrar.
Agent
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.16.
Agent Members
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.2.
Authenticating Agent
"" has the meaning provided in Section 6.1.
Bankruptcy Law
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board of Directors
"" means a resolution by the Board of Directors or Executive Committee of the Company certified by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary as being duly adopted and in full force and effect.
Board Resolution
 
"" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a Legal Holiday in New York, New York.
Business Day
"" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of or in such Person's capital stock or other equity interests, and options, rights or warrants to purchase such capital stock or other equity interests, whether now outstanding or issued after the Issue Date.
Capital Stock
"" means the common stock, par value $.10 per share, of the Company, as that stock may be reconstituted from time to time.
Common Stock
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date, as set forth in the daily statistical release (or any successor release) published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and designated "Composite 3:30 p.m. Quotations for U.S. Government Securities," or (ii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published or does not contain such prices on such Business Day, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations are obtained, the average of all such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"means the total amount of assets which would be included on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries under GAAP (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom:
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets"
 
 
 
 
"" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business is principally administered (which at the date of this Indenture is at 10151 Deerwood Park Blvd., Building 400, 5th Floor, Jacksonville, Florida 32256).
Corporate Trust Office
"" has the meaning provided in Section 6.1.
Custodian
"" means any event which, upon the giving of notice or passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.11.
Default Interest Payment Date
"" means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and successors.
Depositary
"$" means the lawful currency of the United States.
"" has the meaning provided in Section 6.1.
Event of Default
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series B to be issued in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to (i) the Registration Rights Agreement, or (ii) with respect to Initial Notes issued under this Indenture subsequent to the Issue Date pursuant to Section 2.2, a registration rights agreement substantially identical to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Notes
"" has the meaning provided in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
"" means the period commencing on December 1 of a year and ending on the next November 30 or such other period (not to exceed 12 months or 53 weeks) as the Company may from time to time adopt as its fiscal year.
Fiscal Year
"" of any Person means all Indebtedness for borrowed money created, incurred, assumed or guaranteed in any manner by such person, and all Indebtedness, contingent or otherwise, incurred or assumed by such person in connection with the acquisition of any business, property or asset, which in each case matures more than one year after, or which by its terms is renewable or extendible or payable out of the proceeds of similar Indebtedness incurred pursuant to the terms of any revolving credit agreement or any similar agreement at the option of such person for a period ending more than one year after the date as of which Funded Debt is being determined; provided, however, that Funded Debt shall not include (i) any Indebtedness for the payment, redemption or satisfaction of which money (or evidences of indebtedness, if permitted under the instrument creating or evidencing such indebtedness) in the necessary amount shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust with a trustee or proper depository either on or before the maturity or redemption date thereof or (ii) any Indebtedness of such person to any of its subsidiaries or of any subsidiary to such person or any other subsidiary or (iii) any Indebtedness incurred in connection with the financing of operating, construction or acquisition projects, provided that the recourse for such indebtedness is limited to the assets of such projects.
Funded Debt
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession of the United States, as in effect on the Issue Date.
GAAP
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.1.
Global Note
"" has the meaning provided in Section 10.1.
Guarantee
"" means (1) initially, each of the Guarantors named on the signature pages of this Indenture, and (2) each of the Company's Subsidiaries which becomes a guarantor of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, in each case subject to release or suspension as provided in this Indenture.
Guarantor
"" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered on the Registrar's books.
Holder
"" means, a permanent global note in registered form representing the aggregate principal amount of Notes sold to Institutional Accredited Investors.
IAI Global Note
"" means, with respect to the Company or any Subsidiary, and without duplication, (a) the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on, and fees, costs, enforcement expenses, collateral protection expenses and other reimbursement or indemnity obligations in respect to all indebtedness or obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary to any Person, including but not limited to banks and other lending institutions, for money borrowed that is evidenced by a note, bond, debenture, loan agreement, or similar instrument or agreement (including purchase money obligations with original maturities in excess of one year and noncontingent reimbursement obligations in respect of amounts paid under letters of credit); (b) all reimbursement obligations and other liabilities (contingent or otherwise) of the Company or any Subsidiary with respect to letters of credit, bank guarantees or bankers' acceptances, (c) all obligations and liabilities (contingent or otherwise) in respect of leases of the Company or any Subsidiary required, in conformity with GAAP, to be accounted for as capital lease obligations on the balance sheet of the Company, (d) all obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary (contingent or otherwise) with respect to an interest rate or other swap, cap or collar agreement or other similar instrument or agreement or foreign currency hedge, exchange, purchase or similar instrument or agreement, (e) all direct or indirect guaranties or similar agreements by the Company or any Subsidiary in respect of, and obligations or liabilities (contingent or otherwise) of the Company or such Subsidiary to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness, obligations or liabilities of another Person of the kind described in clauses (a) through (d), (f) any indebtedness or other obligations, excluding any operating leases the Company or any Subsidiary is currently (or may become) a party to, described in clauses (a) through (d) secured by any Lien existing on property which is owned or held by the Company or Subsidiary, regardless of whether the indebtedness or other obligation
Indebtedness
 
secured thereby shall have been assumed by the Company or such Subsidiary and (g) any and all deferrals, renewals, extensions and refinancing of, or amendments, modification or supplements to, any indebtedness, obligation or liability of the kind described in clauses (a) through (f).
"" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof.
Indenture
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means, collectively, (i) the 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series A, of the Company issued on the Issue Date and (ii) any other 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series A that are issued under this Indenture, subsequent to the Issue Date, pursuant to Section 2.2, for so long as each such securities constitute Restricted Securities.
Initial Notes
"" means Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., UBS Securities LLC, BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Calyon Securities (USA) Inc. and SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc.
Initial Purchasers
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as that term is defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act.
Institutional Accredited Investor
"" means the stated maturity of an installment of interest on the Notes.
Interest Payment Date
"" means April 26, 2006.
Issue Date
"" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions are not required to open in the State of New York.
Legal Holiday
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest of any kind.
Lien
"" means October 17, 2011.
Maturity Date
"" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary for which the holder of such Indebtedness has no recourse, directly or indirectly, to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary for the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Indebtedness, and for which the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is not, directly or indirectly, obligated or otherwise liable for the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Indebtedness, except pursuant to mortgages, deeds of trust or other security interests or other recourse, obligations or liabilities, in respect of specific land or other real property interests of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary securing such Indebtedness; provided, however, that recourse, obligations or liabilities solely for indemnities, breaches of warranties or representations contained in such mortgages, deeds of trust or grants of security interests in respect of Indebtedness will not prevent that Indebtedness from being classified as Non-Recourse Indebtedness.
Non-Recourse Indebtedness
 
"" means a person who is not a U.S. person, as defined in Regulation S.
Non-U.S. Person
"" means, collectively, the Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes, if any, and the Unrestricted Notes, treated as a single class of securities, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms of this Indenture, that are issued pursuant to this Indenture.
Notes
"" means all obligations for principal, premium, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing the Notes.
Obligations
"" means the Chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Secretary, the Controller or any Assistant Secretary of a Person.
Officer
"" when used with respect to the Company means a certificate signed by two Officers. Each such certificate will comply with Section 314 of the TIA and include the statements described in Section 12.05.
Officers' Certificate
"" means a written opinion from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee. That counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or the Trustee. Each such opinion will include the statements described in Section 11.5 if and to the extent required by that Section.
Opinion of Counsel
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.3.
Paying Agent
"" has the meaning provided in Section 4.6.
Permitted Liens
"" has the meaning provided in Section 4.7.
Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any government agency or political subdivision.
Person
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.1.
Physical Notes
"" means a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in the United States.
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" shall have the meaning provided in the Registration Rights Agreement(s).
Private Exchange Notes
"" means the legend initially set forth on the Initial Notes in the form set forth in Exhibit A.
Private Placement Legend
 
"" of any Person means all types of real, personal, tangible, intangible or mixed property owned by such Person, whether or not included in the most recent consolidated balance sheet of such Person and its Subsidiaries under GAAP.
Property
"" or "" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 144A.
Qualified Institutional Buyer
QIB
"" means the Record Date specified in the Notes.
Record Date
"" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
"" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture. For the avoidance of doubt, the Redemption Price excludes accrued interest to the Redemption Date.
Redemption Price
"" means (a) each of Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC (or their respective affiliates which are Primary Treasury Dealers), and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall not be a Primary Treasury Dealer the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (b) any other Primary Treasury Dealer(s) selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.3.
Registrar
"" means, as applicable, (i) the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of the Issue Date among the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers relating to the Notes or (ii) any registration rights agreement, substantially identical to the Registration Rights Agreement, entered into among the Company, the Guarantors and the respective purchasers, on substantially identical terms, relating to any Initial Notes issued pursuant to Section 2.2.
Registration Rights Agreement
"" means Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
"" means a permanent global note in registered form representing the aggregate principal amount of Notes sold in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Regulation S Global Note
"" means, with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal (or of the portion) thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to
Remaining Scheduled Payments
 
such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act; , , that the Trustee shall be entitled to request and conclusively rely on an Opinion of Counsel with respect to whether any Note constitutes a Restricted Security.
Restricted Security
provided
however
"" means any Guarantor.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
"" means a sale or transfer made by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of any property which is either (A) a manufacturing facility, office building or warehouse whose book value equals or exceeds 1% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets as of the date of determination, or (B) another property (not including a model home) which exceeds 5% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets as of the date of determination, if such sale or transfer is made with the agreement, commitment or intention of the transferee of leasing such property to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary.
Sale-Leaseback Transaction
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means the senior credit facility dated as of June 17, 2005 between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative agent and the other lenders party thereto, as amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified from time to time.
Senior Credit Facility
"" means any state of the United States or the District of Columbia.
State
"" means (i) a corporation or other entity of which a majority in voting power of the stock or other interests is owned by the Company, by a Subsidiary of the Company or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company or (ii) a partnership, the sole general partner or partners of which are the Company and/or any Subsidiary.
Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the person named as such in this Indenture and, subject to the provisions of Article Seven of this Indenture, any successor to that person.
Trustee
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in effect on the date of this Indenture, except as otherwise provided in Section 9.3.
TIA
 
"" means the Chairman of the Board, the President or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee assigned by the Trustee to administer its corporate trust matters.
Trust Officer
"" means the United States of America.
United States
"" means one or more Notes that do not and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, including, without limitation, the Exchange Notes.
Unrestricted Notes
"" means direct obligations of, and obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America for the payment of which the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged.
U.S. Government Obligations
"" means such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
U.S. Legal Tender
Section 1.2. . Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, such provision is incorporated by reference in, and made a part of, this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
Incorporation by Reference of TIA
"" means the Notes.
indenture securities
"" means a Holder.
indenture security holder
"" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
"" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
"" on the indenture securities means the Company or any other obligor on the Notes.
obligor
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them therein.
Section 1.3. . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Rules of Construction
(1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
(2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP as of any date of determination;
(3) "or" is not exclusive;
(4) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular;
(5) "herein," "hereof" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
 
(6) any reference to a statute, law or regulation means that statute, law or regulation as amended and in effect from time to time and includes any successor statute, law or regulation; , , that any reference to the Bankruptcy Law shall mean the Bankruptcy Law as applicable to the relevant case.
provided
however
Section 2.1. . The Initial Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication relating thereto shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, , that any Initial Notes issued in a public offering shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto. The Exchange Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication relating thereto shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or depository rule or usage. The Company and the Trustee shall approve the form of the Notes and any notation, legend or endorsement on them. Each Note shall be dated the date of its issuance and shall show the date of its authentication.
Form and Dating
provided
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes annexed hereto as Exhibits A and B shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Notes offered and sold in reliance on Rule 144A and Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of one or more permanent global Notes in registered form, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A (each, a ""), deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided and shall bear the legend set forth in Exhibit C. The aggregate principal amount of a Global Note may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, as hereinafter provided.
Global Note
Notes issued in exchange for interests in a Global Note pursuant to Section 2.16 may be issued and Notes offered and sold in reliance on any other exemption from registration under the Securities Act other than as described in the preceding paragraph shall be issued in the form of permanent certificated Notes in registered form in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A (the "").
Physical Notes
All Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall remain in the form of a Global Note until the consummation of the Exchange Offer pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement; , , that all of the time periods specified in the Registration Rights Agreement to be complied with by the Company have been so complied with.
provided
however
Section 2.2. . An Officer of the Company (duly authorized by all requisite corporate actions) shall sign and attest to the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
Execution and Authentication; Aggregate Principal Amount
 
If an Officer whose signature is on a Note was an Officer at the time of such execution but no longer holds that office or position at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Note shall nevertheless be valid.
A Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Note. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
The Trustee shall authenticate all (i) Initial Notes; (ii) Private Exchange Notes from time to time for issue only in exchange for a like principal amount of Initial Notes and (iii) Unrestricted Notes from time to time upon a written order of the Company in the form of an Officers' Certificate of the Company. Each such written order shall specify the amount of Notes to be authenticated and the date on which the Notes are to be authenticated, whether the Notes are to be Initial Notes, Private Exchange Notes or Unrestricted Notes and whether the Notes are to be issued as Physical Notes or Global Notes or such other information as the Trustee may reasonably request.
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent (the "") reasonably acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. Unless otherwise provided in the appointment, an Authenticating Agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such Authenticating Agent. An Authenticating Agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or with any Affiliate of the Company.
Authenticating Agent
The Notes shall be issuable in fully registered form only, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. Subject to applicable law, the aggregate principal amount of the Notes which may be authenticated and delivered on the Issue Date shall not exceed $250,000,000; provided that, the Company may, without the consent of the Holders, issue additional Notes under this Indenture at any time thereafter.
Section 2.3. . The Company shall maintain an office or agency (which shall be located in the Borough of Manhattan in the City of New York, State of New York) where (a) Notes may be presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange (""), (b) Notes may be presented or surrendered for payment ("") and (c) notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Registrar shall keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more co-Registrars and one or more additional paying agents reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. The term "Paying Agent" includes any additional Paying Agent. The Company may act as its own Paying Agent. If the Company elects to act as its own paying agent, the Company will notify the Trustee of its election and will hold for the benefit of the Holders all assets for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, the Notes.
Registrar and Paying Agent
Registrar
Paying Agent
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Agent not a party to this Indenture, which agreement shall incorporate the provisions of the TIA and implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall notify
 
the Trustee of the name and address of any such Agent. If the Company shall fail to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such.
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Paying Agent and custodian for service of demands and notices in connection with the Notes. Any of the Registrar, the Paying Agent or any other agent may resign upon 30 days' notice to the Company.
Section 2.4. . The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that such Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders or the Trustee all assets held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, the Notes (whether such assets have been distributed to it by the Company or any other obligor on the Notes), and the Company and the Paying Agent shall notify the Trustee of any Default by the Company (or any other obligor on the Notes) in making any such payment. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to distribute all assets held by it to the Trustee and account for any assets disbursed and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any payment Default, upon written request to a Paying Agent, require such Paying Agent to distribute all assets held by it to the Trustee and to account for any assets distributed. Upon distribution to the Trustee of all assets that shall have been delivered to the Paying Agent, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for such assets.
Paying Agent to Hold Assets in Trust
Section 2.5. . The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of the Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish or cause the Registrar to furnish to the Trustee five (5) Business Days before each Record Date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list as of such date and in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders, which list may be conclusively relied upon by the Trustee, and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a).
Holder Lists
Section 2.6. . Subject to Sections 2.16 and 2.17, when Notes are presented to the Registrar or a co-Registrar with a request to register the transfer of such Notes or to exchange such Notes for an equal principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations, the Registrar or co-Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transaction are met; , , that the Notes presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee and the Registrar or co-Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing. To permit registration of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Notes at the Registrar's or co-Registrar's request. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax, fee or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges or transfers pursuant to Section 2.10 or 3.1, in which event the Company shall be responsible for the payment of such taxes or charges).
Transfer and Exchange
provided
however
 
The Registrar or co-Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange of any Note (i) during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing and (ii) selected for redemption in whole or in part pursuant to Article III, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
Any Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note shall, by acceptance of such Global Note, agree that transfers of beneficial interests in such Global Notes may be effected only through a book entry system maintained by the Holder of such Global Note (or its agent), and that ownership of a beneficial interest in the Note shall be required to be reflected in a book entry system.
Section 2.7. . If a mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or if the Holder of a Note claims that the Note has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Note if the Trustee's requirements are met. If required by the Trustee or the Company, such Holder must provide an indemnity bond or other indemnity of reasonable tenor, sufficient in the reasonable judgment of the Company and the Trustee, to protect the Company, the Trustee or any Agent from any loss which any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced. Every replacement Note shall constitute an additional obligation of the Company.
Replacement Notes
Section 2.8. . Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes that have been authenticated by the Trustee except those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section as not outstanding. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.9, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or any of its Affiliates holds the Note.
Outstanding Notes
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.7 (other than a mutilated Note surrendered for replacement), it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a protected purchaser. A mutilated Note ceases to be outstanding upon surrender of such Note and replacement thereof pursuant to Section 2.7.
If, on a Redemption Date or the Maturity Date, the Paying Agent holds U.S. Legal Tender or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay all of the principal, premium, if any, and interest due on the Notes payable on that date and is not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders thereof pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, then on and after that date such Notes shall be deemed not to be outstanding and interest on them shall cease to accrue.
Section 2.9. . In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver, consent or notice, Notes owned by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company shall be considered as though they are not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Notes which a Trust Officer of the Trustee has been informed in writing by the Company to be so owned shall be so considered. The Company shall notify the Trustee, in writing, when either it or, to its knowledge, any of its Affiliates repurchases or otherwise acquires Notes, of the aggregate
Treasury Notes
 
principal amount of such Notes so repurchased or otherwise acquired and such other information as the Trustee may reasonably request and the Trustee shall be entitled to rely thereon.
Section 2.10. . Until typewritten Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Notes upon receipt of a written order of the Company in the form of an Officers' Certificate. The Officers' Certificate shall specify the amount of temporary Notes to be authenticated and the date on which the temporary Notes are to be authenticated. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of typewritten Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes and so indicates in the Officers' Certificate. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate, upon receipt of a written order of the Company pursuant to Section 2.2, typewritten Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
Temporary Notes
Section 2.11. . The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee, or at the direction of the Trustee, the Registrar or the Paying Agent, and no one else, shall cancel and, at the written direction of the Company, shall dispose, in its customary manner, of all Notes surrendered for transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation. Subject to Section 2.7, the Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes that it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation. If the Company shall acquire any of the Notes, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the Indebtedness represented by such Notes unless and until the same are surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation pursuant to this Section 2.11.
Cancellation
Section 2.12. . The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal from time to time on demand at the rate of interest borne by the Notes. The Company shall, to the extent lawful, pay interest on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the rate of interest borne by the Notes. All such interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months, and, in the case of a partial month, the actual number of days elapsed.
Defaulted Interest
If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest, plus (to the extent lawful) any interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, which special record date shall be the fifteenth day next preceding the date fixed by the Company for the payment of defaulted interest or the next succeeding Business Day if such date is not a Business Day. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment (a ""), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such defaulted interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such defaulted interest as provided in this Section; , , that in no event shall the Company deposit monies proposed to be paid in respect of defaulted interest later than 11:00 a.m. New York City time on the proposed Default Interest Payment Date. At least 15 days before the subsequent special record date, the Company shall mail (or cause to be mailed) to each Holder, as of a recent date selected by the Company, with a copy to the Trustee at least 20 days prior to
Default Interest Payment Date
provided
however
 
such special record date, a notice that states the subsequent special record date, the Default Interest Payment Date and the amount of defaulted interest, and interest payable on such defaulted interest, if any, to be paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any interest which is paid prior to the expiration of the 30-day period set forth in Section 6.1(1) shall be paid to Holders as of the regular record date for the Interest Payment Date for which interest has not been paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may make payment of any defaulted interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange.
Section 2.13. . In issuing the Notes, the Company may use a "CUSIP" number, and, if so, the Trustee shall use the CUSIP number in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders; , , that no representation is hereby deemed to be made by the Trustee as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number printed in the notice or on the Notes, and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP number.
CUSIP Number
provided
however
In the event that the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate any Notes issued under this Indenture subsequent to the Issue Date pursuant to Section 2.2, the Company shall use its reasonable efforts to obtain the same "CUSIP" number for such Notes as is printed on the Notes outstanding at such time and provide written notice to the Trustee to such effect; , , that if any series of Notes issued under this Indenture subsequent to the Issue Date is determined, pursuant to an Opinion of Counsel of the Company in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, to be a different class of security than the Notes outstanding at such time for federal income tax or securities laws purposes, the Company shall use its reasonable efforts to obtain a "CUSIP" number for such Notes that is different than the "CUSIP" number printed on the Notes then outstanding and cause such opinion to be delivered to the Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision herein to the contrary, all Notes issued under this Indenture shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class and no series of Notes will have the right to vote or consent as a separate class on any matter.
provided
however
Section 2.14. . Prior to 11:00 a.m. New York City time on each Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date or Redemption Date, the Company shall have deposited with the Paying Agent in immediately available funds money sufficient to make cash payments, if any, due on such Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as the case may be, in a timely manner which permits the Paying Agent to remit payment to the Holders on such Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as the case may be.
Deposit of Monies
 
Section 2.15. . Each Global Note and Physical Note that constitutes a Restricted Security shall bear the Private Placement Legend on the face thereof until after the second anniversary of the later of the Issue Date (or in the case of any Initial Notes issued after the Issue Date, two years after the date of initial issuance thereof) and the last date on which the Company or any Affiliate of the Company was the owner of such Note (or any predecessor security) (or such shorter period of time as permitted by Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or any successor provision thereunder) (or such longer period of time as may be required under the Securities Act or applicable state securities laws in the opinion of counsel for the Company, unless otherwise agreed by the Company and the Holder thereof).
Restrictive Legends
Each Global Note shall also bear the legend as set forth in Exhibit C.
Section 2.16. .
Book-Entry Provisions for Global Security
(a) The Global Notes initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of such Depositary, (ii) be delivered to the Trustee as custodian for such Depositary and (iii) bear the legend as set forth in Exhibit C.
(b) Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under the Global Notes, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any Agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any Agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Note.
Agent Members
(c) Transfers of a Global Note shall be limited to transfers in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in a Global Note may be transferred or exchanged for Physical Notes in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary and the provisions of Section 2.17. In addition, Physical Notes shall be transferred to all beneficial owners in exchange for their beneficial interests in a Global Note if (i) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Notes and a successor depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice or (ii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Registrar has received a written request from the Depositary to issue Physical Notes.
(d) In connection with any transfer or exchange of a portion of the beneficial interest in a Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 2.16(c), the Registrar shall (if one or more Physical Notes are to be issued) reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of such Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to be transferred, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Physical Notes of like tenor and amount.
(e) In connection with the transfer of an entire Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 2.16(c), such Global Note shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for
 
cancellation, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the Global Note, an equal aggregate principal amount of Physical Notes of authorized denominations.
(f) Any Physical Note constituting a Restricted Security delivered in exchange for an interest in a Global Note pursuant to Section 2.16(c) shall, except as otherwise provided by Section 2.17(a)(i)(x) and (c), bear the Private Placement Legend.
(g) The Holder of a Global Note may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes.
Section 2.17. .
Special Transfer Provisions
(a) . The following provisions shall apply with respect to the registration of any proposed transfer of a Note constituting a Restricted Security to any Institutional Accredited Investor which is not a QIB or to any Non-U.S. Person:
Transfers to Non-QIB Institutional Accredited Investors and Non-U.S. Persons
(i) the Registrar shall register the transfer of any Note constituting a Restricted Security, whether or not such Note bears the Private Placement Legend, if (x) the requested transfer is after the second anniversary of the Issue Date (, , that neither the Company nor any Affiliate of the Company has held any beneficial interest in such Note, or portion thereof, or predecessor security at any time on or prior to the second anniversary of the Issue Date (or in the case of any Initial Notes issued after the Issue Date, two years after the date of initial issuance thereof)) or (y) (1) in the case of a transfer to an Institutional Accredited Investor which is not a QIB (excluding Non-U.S. Persons), the proposed transferee has delivered to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto or (2) in the case of a transfer to a Non-U.S. Person, the proposed transferor has delivered to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto; and
provided
however
(ii) if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member and the Notes to be transferred consist of Physical Notes which after transfer are to be evidenced by an interest in the IAI Global Note or Regulation S Global Note, as the case may be, upon receipt by the Registrar of (x) written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures and (y) the appropriate certificate, if any, required by clause (y) of paragraph (i) above, the Registrar shall register the transfer and reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of the IAI Global Note or Regulation S Global Note, as the case may be, in an amount equal to the principal amount of Physical Notes to be transferred, and the Trustee shall cancel the Physical Notes so transferred; and
(iii) if the proposed transferor is an Agent Member seeking to transfer an interest in a Global Note, upon receipt by the Registrar of (x) written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures and (y) the appropriate
 
certificate, if any, required by clause (y) of paragraph (i) above, the Registrar shall register the transfer and reflect on its books and records the date and (A) a decrease in the principal amount of the Global Note from which such interests are to be transferred in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be transferred and (B) an increase in the principal amount of the IAI Global Note or the Regulation S Global Note, as the case may be, to which the interests are to be transferred in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be transferred.
(b) . The following provisions shall apply with respect to the registration of any proposed transfer of a Note constituting a Restricted Security to a QIB (excluding transfers to Non-U.S. Persons):
Transfers to QIBS
(i) the Registrar shall register the transfer of any Restricted Security if such transfer is being made by a proposed transferor who has checked the box provided for on the form of Note stating, or has otherwise advised the Company and the Registrar in writing, that the sale has been made in compliance with the provisions of Rule 144A to a transferee who has signed the certification provided for on the form of Note stating, or has otherwise advised the Company and the Registrar in writing, that it is purchasing the Note for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a QIB within the meaning of Rule 144A, and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as it has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon its foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A; and
(ii) if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member, and the Notes to be transferred consist of Physical Notes which after transfer are to be evidenced by an interest in a Global Note, upon receipt by the Registrar of written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of such Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Physical Notes to be transferred, and the Trustee shall cancel the Physical Notes so transferred; and
(iii) if the proposed transferor is an Agent Member seeking to transfer an interest in the IAI Global Note or the Regulation S Global Note, upon receipt by the Registrar of written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall register the transfer and reflect on its books and records the date and (A) a decrease in the principal amount of the IAI Global Note or the Regulation S Global Note, as the case may be, in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be transferred and (B) an increase in the principal amount of the Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be transferred.
(c) . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, a Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
Restrictions on Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
 
(d) . Upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes not bearing the Private Placement Legend, the Registrar shall deliver Notes that do not bear the Private Placement Legend. Upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes bearing the Private Placement Legend, the Registrar shall deliver only Notes that bear the Private Placement Legend unless (i) the requested transfer is after the second anniversary of the Issue Date (, , that neither the Company nor any Affiliate of the Company has held any beneficial interest in such Note, or portion thereof, or any predecessor security at any time prior to or on the second anniversary of the Issue Date (or, in the case of any Initial Notes issued after the Issue Date, two years after the date of initial issuance thereof), or (ii) there is delivered to the Registrar an Opinion of Counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee to the effect that neither such legend nor the related restrictions on transfer are required in order to maintain compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act.
Private Placement Legend
provided
however
(e) . By its acceptance of any Note bearing the Private Placement Legend, each Holder of such a Note acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such Note set forth in this Indenture and in the Private Placement Legend and agrees that it will transfer such Note only as provided in this Indenture.
General
The Registrar shall retain copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to Section 2.16 or this Section 2.17. The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time during the Registrar's normal business hours upon the giving of reasonable written notice to the Registrar.
(f) . Any certificate (i) evidencing a Note that has been transferred to an Affiliate of the Company within two years after the Issue Date (or in the case of any Initial Notes issued after the Issue Date, two years after the date of initial issuance thereof), as evidenced by a notation on the Assignment Form for such transfer or in the representation letter delivered in respect thereof or (ii) evidencing a Note that has been acquired from an Affiliate of the Company (other than by an Affiliate of the Company) in a transaction or a chain of transactions not involving any public offering, shall, until two years after the last date on which the Company or any Affiliate of the Company was an owner of such Note, in each case, bear the Private Placement Legend, unless otherwise agreed by the Company (with written notice thereof to the Trustee).
Transfer of Notes Held by Affiliates
(g) . In connection with the purchase or sale of any Note or any beneficial interest therein by the Company or any Affiliate thereof (other than a sale to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 19, 2006, by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers), the Company shall file with the Trustee and Registrar a written notice identifying the transaction as such for the purposes hereof.
Notice of Affiliate Purchases
 
Section 2.18. . Under certain circumstances, the Company shall be obligated to pay Additional Interest to the Holders, all as set forth in Section 4 of the Registration Rights Agreement. The terms thereof are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Additional Interest Under Registration Rights Agreement
Section 3.1. .
Optional Redemption by the Company
(a) . The Company, at its option, may redeem the Notes in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Notes. If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Notes, it shall notify the Trustee in writing of the Redemption Date, the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed and the Redemption Price that would be in effect if such Notes were being redeemed on the date of the notice. The Company shall give the notice to the Trustee provided for in this Section 3.1(a) at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee).
Right to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
(b) . At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed a notice of redemption by first-class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at such Holder's address as it appears on the Note register.
Notice of Redemption
The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed and shall state:
(i) the Redemption Date;
(ii) the Redemption Price that would be in effect if such Notes were being redeemed on the date of the notice;
(iii) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
(iv) that Notes called for redemption must be presented and surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price and any accrued interest;
(v) that interest on Notes called for redemption shall cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date and, unless the Company defaults in making the redemption payment, the only remaining right of the Holder shall be to receive payment of the Redemption Price upon presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent of the Notes;
(vi) if fewer than all the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the certificate number (if any) and principal amounts of the particular Notes to be redeemed; and
(vii) the CUSIP number or numbers for the Notes called for redemption.
 
At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense. In such event, the Company will provide the Trustee with the information required by clauses (i) through (iii) and (vi).
(c) . Once notice of redemption is mailed, Notes called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price stated in the notice. Upon presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent, Notes called for redemption shall be paid at the Redemption Price, together with any accrued interest.
Effect of Notice of Redemption
(d) . There shall be no sinking fund provided for the Notes.
Sinking Fund
Section 4.1. . The Company will promptly pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each of the Notes at the places and time and in the manner provided in the Notes and this Indenture. An installment of principal, premium or interest will be considered paid on the date it is due if the Trustee or Paying Agent holds on that date in accordance with this Indenture money designated for and sufficient to pay the installment then due.
Payment of Notes
The Company will pay or cause to be paid interest on overdue principal at the rate specified in the Notes; it will also pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the same rate, to the extent lawful.
Section 4.2. . The Company will file with the Trustee within 15 days after filing with the SEC, copies of its annual reports and of the information, documents, and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company also will comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a).
Reporting
Section 4.3. . Subject to Article V, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , that the Company will not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors determines that the preservation of the right or franchise is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that its loss will not be disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
Corporate Existence
provided, however
Section 4.4. . The Company will deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company an Officers' Certificate stating that in the course of the performance by the signers of their duties as Officers of the Company they would normally have knowledge of any Default or Event of Default by the Company and whether or not the signers know of any Default or Event of Default that occurred during the fiscal year. If they do, the certificate will describe the default or Event of Default, its status and
Compliance Certificate
 
what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. The Company also will comply with TIA Section 314(a)(4). For the purposes of this provision of the Indenture, compliance is determined without regard to any grace period or requirement of notice under the Indenture.
Section 4.5. . Upon request of the Trustee, the Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purpose of this Indenture.
Further Instruments and Acts
Section 4.6. . The Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, assume, incur or suffer to exist any Lien, upon any of its properties or assets, whether owned on the Issue Date or thereafter acquired, unless (1) if such Lien secures Indebtedness which is pari passu with the Notes, then the Notes are secured on an equal and ratable basis with the obligation so secured until such time as such obligation is no longer secured by a Lien, (2) if such Lien secures Indebtedness which is subordinated to the Notes, then the Notes are secured and the Lien securing such Indebtedness is subordinated to the Lien granted to the holders of the Notes to the same extent as such Indebtedness is subordinated to the Notes or (3) such Lien is a Permitted Lien (as defined below).
Limitations on Liens
The following Liens constitute "Permitted Liens":
(a) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with or otherwise acquired by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, provided that such Liens were in existence prior to, and were not created in contemplation of, such merger, consolidation or acquisitions and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary;
(b) Liens on property existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; provided that such Liens were in existence prior to, and were not created in contemplation of, such acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than the property acquired;
(c) Liens imposed by law such as carriers', warehouseman's or mechanics' Liens, and other Liens to secure the performance of statutory obligations, surety or appeal bonds, performance bonds or other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(d) Liens incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue, water, sewage or any similar bonds;
(e) Liens securing Indebtedness representing, or incurred to finance, the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving any assets, provided that the principal amount of such Indebtedness does not exceed 100% of such cost, including construction charges;
(f) Liens securing Indebtedness (A) between a Restricted Subsidiary and the Company, or (B) between Restricted Subsidiaries;
 
(g) Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business to secure performance of obligations with respect to statutory or regulatory requirements, performance or return-of-money bonds, surety bonds or other obligations of a like nature, in each case which are not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money, the obtaining of advances or credit or the payment of the deferred purchase price of property and which do not in the aggregate impair in any material respect the use of property in the operation of the Company's business taken as a whole;
(h) pledges or deposits under workmen's compensation laws, unemployment insurance laws or similar legislation, or good faith deposits in connection with bids, tenders, contracts (other than for the payment of indebtedness) or leases to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is a party, or deposits to secure public or statutory obligations of the Company or of any Restricted Subsidiary or deposits for the payment of rent, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(i) Liens granted to any bank or other institution on the payments to be made to such institution by the Company or any Subsidiary pursuant to any interest rate swap or similar agreement or foreign currency hedge, exchange or similar agreement designed to provide protection against fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, respectively, provided that such agreements are entered into in, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of business;
(j) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's Liens, rights of set off or similar rights and remedies;
(k) Liens arising from the Uniform Commercial Code financing statements regarding leases;
(l) Liens securing indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, construction, improvement, development or expansion of a property which is given within 180 days of the acquisition, construction, improvement, development or expansion of such property and which is limited to such property;
(m) Liens incurred in connection with Non-Recourse Indebtedness;
(n) Liens existing on the Issue Date;
(o) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or claims that are not yet delinquent or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and diligently concluded; provided that any reserve or other appropriate provision as shall be required in conformity with GAAP shall have been made therefor;
(p) Liens securing refinancing Indebtedness; provided that any such Lien does not extend to or cover any property or assets other than the property or assets securing Indebtedness so refunded, refinanced or extended;
(q) easements, rights-of-way and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business and encumbrances consisting of zoning restrictions, licenses, restrictions on the use of property or minor imperfections in title thereto which, in the aggregate, are not material in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the Company's properties subject thereto; and
 
(r) any extensions, substitutions, modifications, replacements or renewals of the Permitted Liens described above.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may, and may permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, assume, incur or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its properties or assets without equally and ratably securing the Notes if the aggregate amount of all Indebtedness then outstanding secured by such Lien and all similar Liens, together with the aggregate net sale proceeds from all Sale-Leaseback Transactions which are not Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions, does not exceed 20% of the total consolidated stockholders' equity of the Company as shown on the most recent consolidated balance sheet that is contained or incorporated in the latest annual report on Form 10-K (or equivalent report) or quarterly report on Form 10-Q (or equivalent report) filed with the SEC, and is as of a date not more than 181 days prior to the date of determination, in the case of the consolidated balance sheet contained or incorporated in an annual report on Form 10-K, or 135 days prior to the date of determination, in the case of the consolidated balance sheet contained in the quarterly report on Form 10-Q; provided that Indebtedness secured by Permitted Liens shall not be included in the amount of such secured Indebtedness.
Section 4.7. . The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, after the date hereof, enter into any Sale-Leaseback Transaction other than Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions (as defined below). The following Sale-Leaseback Transactions constitute "Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions":
Sale-Leaseback Transactions
(a) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction involving the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of model homes in the Company's (including its Subsidiaries') communities;
(b) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction relating to a property entered into within 180 days after the later of the date of acquisition of such property by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or the date of the completion of construction or commencement of full operations on such property, whichever is later;
(c) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction where the Company, within 365 days after such Sale-Leaseback Transaction, applies or causes to be applied to the retirement of any Funded Debt of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary (other than Funded Debt which by its terms or the terms of the instrument by which it was issued is subordinate in right of payment to the Notes) proceeds of the sale of such property, but only to the extent of the amount of proceeds so applied;
(d) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction where the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary would, on the effective date of such sale or transfer, be entitled, pursuant to this Indenture, to issue, assume or guarantee Indebtedness secured by a Lien upon the relevant property, at least equal in amount to the then present value (discounted at the actual rate of interest of the
 
Sale-Leaseback Transaction) of the obligation for the net rental payments in respect of such Sale-Leaseback Transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes;
(e) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction between the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary or among Restricted Subsidiaries, provided that the lessor shall be the Company or a wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiary; and
(f) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction which has a lease of no more than three years in length.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may, and may permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, effect any Sale-Leaseback Transaction involving any real or tangible personal property which is not a Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transaction, provided that the aggregate net sales proceeds from all Sale-Leaseback Transactions which are not Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions, together with all Indebtedness secured by Liens other than Permitted Liens, does not exceed 20% of the total consolidated stockholders' equity of the Company as shown on the most recent consolidated balance sheet that is contained or incorporated in the latest annual report on Form 10-K (or equivalent report) or quarterly report on Form 10-Q (or equivalent report) filed with the SEC, and is as of a date not more than 181 days prior to the date of determination, in the case of the consolidated balance sheet contained or incorporated in an annual report on Form 10-K, or 135 days prior to the date of determination, in the case of the consolidated balance sheet contained in the quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Section 4.8. . The Company shall cause any Subsidiary formed or acquired after the Issue Date, other than its finance company Subsidiaries and any foreign Subsidiaries, that guarantees any Indebtedness of the Company or any other Subsidiary, other than guarantees by Subsidiaries of U.S. Home Corporation solely of U.S. Home Corporation's obligations as a guarantor under the Senior Credit Facility, to become a Guarantor by causing, as promptly as practicable, but in any event not later than the date on which such Subsidiary becomes a guarantor of any other Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary, such Subsidiary to execute and deliver to the Trustee a Guarantee in substantially the form of Exhibit F hereto and the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Furnishing Guarantees
Section 5.1. . The Company will not consolidate with or merge into any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms
(1) the corporation formed by the consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety will be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, a State of the
 
United States of America or the District of Columbia and expressly assumes, by one or more supplemental indentures, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Notes and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture to be performed or observed by the Company;
(2) immediately after giving effect to the transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, will have occurred and be continuing; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that the consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and the supplemental indenture (or the supplemental indentures together) comply with this Article and that all the conditions precedent relating to the transaction set forth in this Section have been fulfilled.
Section 5.2. . Upon any event described in Section 5.1, the successor corporation will succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture, and, except in connection with a lease transaction, the predecessor corporation will be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture.
Successor Corporation Substituted
Section 6.1. .
Events of Default
An "Event of Default" occurs if:
(1) there is a default by the Company in the payment when due of interest on the Notes, which default continues for a period of 30 days;
(2) there is a default by the Company in the payment when due of the principal or Redemption Price due with respect to the Notes;
(3) there is a default by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to its obligation to pay Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than any Non-Recourse Indebtedness), which default shall have resulted in the acceleration of, or be a failure to pay at final maturity, Indebtedness aggregating more than $50 million;
(4) there is a failure to perform any other covenant or warranty of the Company herein, which continues for 30 days after written notice;
(5) final judgments or orders are rendered against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary which require the payment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of an amount (to the extent not covered by insurance) in excess of $50 million
 
and such judgments or orders remain unstayed or unsatisfied for more than 60 days and are not being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
(6) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, pursuant to any Bankruptcy Law applicable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary: (A) commences a voluntary case; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case against it; (C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
(7) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any applicable Bankruptcy Law: (A) for relief in an involuntary case against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (B) appointing a Custodian of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its respective property; or (C) ordering the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days.
Each of the occurrences described in clauses (1) through (7) will constitute an Event of Default whatever the reason for the occurrence and whether it is voluntary or involuntary or is effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body.
The term "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11 of the United States Code or any similar United States Federal or State law for the relief of debtors. The term "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
A Default under clause (4) of this Section is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes with regard to which the Company has failed to comply with a covenant or agreement notify the Company and the Trustee, of the Default and the Company does not cure the Default within 30 days after the giving of the notice. The notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that the notice is a "Notice of Default."
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 20 days after it occurs, written notice in the form of an Officers' Certificate of any event of which the Company is aware which with the giving of notice and the lapse of time would become an Event of Default under clause (4), its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect to it.
Section 6.2. . If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, unless the principal of the Notes has already become due and payable, the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of not less than 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the outstanding principal of the Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration on all of the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such outstanding principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(6) or (7) of this Indenture occurs and is continuing, the outstanding principal amount of the Notes shall
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
 
automatically become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes, by notice to the Company and the Trustee (and without notice to any other Holder), may rescind any acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the outstanding principal amount of any of the Notes that has become due solely as a result of acceleration and if all amounts due to the Trustee under Section 7.7 of this Indenture have been paid. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such waiver or rescission and annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Company, the Holders of Notes, and the Trustee shall be restored respectively to their several positions and rights hereunder and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company, the Holders of Notes, and the Trustee shall continue as though no such proceeding had been taken.
The Trustee shall within 90 days after a Trust Officer has knowledge of the occurrence of a Default or any Event of Default, mail to all Holders, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear upon the Note register, notice of all Defaults or Events of Default known to a Trust Officer, unless such Default or Event of Default is cured or waived before the giving of such notice and provided that, except in the case of default in the payment of the principal, interest or Redemption Price, as the case may be, on any of the Notes, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as a trust committee of directors and/or officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders.
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceedings for any remedy available to the Trustee, subject to the limitations specified herein.
Section 6.3. . If an Event of Default as to the Notes occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision under this Indenture.
Other Remedies
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Securityholder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default will not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
Section 6.4. . The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes, by notice to the Trustee may consent to the waiver of any past Default with regard to the Notes and
Waiver of Existing Defaults
 
its consequences except (i) a default in the payment of interest or premium, if any, on, or the principal of, Notes, or (ii) a default in respect of a covenant or a provision that under Section 9.2 cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holders of all Notes then outstanding. The defaults described in clauses (i) and (ii) in the previous sentence may be waived with the consent of the Holders of all Notes then outstanding. When a Default or Event of Default is waived, it is deemed cured and not continuing, but no waiver will extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right.
Section 6.5. . The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee with regard to the Notes or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with regard to the Notes. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or, subject to Section 7.1, that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders or that would involve the Trustee in personal liability provided, however, that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with such direction. Prior to taking any action as a result of a direction given under this Section, the Trustee will be entitled to indemnification satisfactory to it in its sole discretion against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking that action.
Control by Majority
Section 6.6. . The Company covenants that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default described in Section 6.1(1) or (2), then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes, the whole amount that will then have become due and payable on all such Notes for principal, premium, if any, and interest, with interest on the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) on the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Notes; and, in addition, such further amount as will be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and any expenses or liabilities incurred by the Trustee hereunder other than through its negligence or bad faith. Until such demand by the Trustee, the Company may pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Notes to the registered Holders, whether or not the Notes are overdue.
Payments of Notes on Default; Suit Therefor
Section 6.7. . A Holder may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture unless:
Limitation on Suits
(1) the Holder gives to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default is continuing;
(2) the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
(3) such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
 
(4) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer of security or indemnity, and the Event of Default has not been waived; and
(5) the Trustee has received no contrary direction from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding during such 60-day period.
A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder.
Section 6.8. . If an Event of Default in payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, specified in clause (1) or (2) of Section 6.1 occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal, premium, if any, and interest remaining unpaid (together with interest on that unpaid interest to the extent lawful) and the amounts provided for in Section 7.7.
Collection Suit by Trustee
Section 6.9. . The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company, its creditors or its property and, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, may vote on behalf of the Holders in any election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other person performing similar functions, and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make payments to the Trustee and, if the Trustee consents to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.7.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
Section 6.10. . If a judicial proceeding by the Trustee or a Holder to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture is dismissed or decided favorably to the Company, except as otherwise provided in the judicial proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders will be restored to the positions they would have been in if the judicial proceeding had not been instituted.
Restoration of Positions
Section 6.11. . If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article VI with respect to the Notes, it will pay out the money or property in the following order:
Priorities
FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.7;
SECOND: to the Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, premium and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal, premium and interest, respectively; and
THIRD: to the Company.
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to the Holders pursuant to this Section. At least 15 days before the record date, the Company will mail to each Holder and the Trustee a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
 
Section 6.12. . In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.12 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.7, or a suit by Holders of in aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note held by that Holder on or after the due date provided in the Note.
Undertaking for Costs
Section 6.13. . The Company agrees (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim, and will resist any and all efforts to be compelled to take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law, wherever enacted, now or at any subsequent time in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal of, premium, if any, and/or interest on any of the Notes as contemplated in this Indenture, or which may affect the covenants or performance of this Indenture, and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and agrees that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power granted to the Trustee in this Indenture, but (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) will suffer and permit the execution of any such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Stay, Extension or Usury Laws
Section 6.14. . No stockholder, officer, director or incorporator, as such, past, present or future, of the Company, or any of its successor corporations, will have any personal liability in respect of the Company's obligations under this Indenture or any Notes by reason of his or its status as such stockholder, officer, director or incorporator; provided, however, that nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes will prevent recourse to and enforcement of the liability of any stockholder or subscriber to Capital Stock in respect of shares of Capital Stock which have not been fully paid up.
Liability of Stockholders, Officers, Directors and Incorporators
Section 7.1. .
Duties of Trustee
(a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee will exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
 
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
(i) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no implied covenants or obligations will be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(ii) the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed in them, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture in the absence of bad faith on the Trustee's part; provided, however, that the Trustee will examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they substantially conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(1) this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.1;
(2) the Trustee will not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(3) the Trustee will not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.5; and
(4) the Trustee will not be required to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties under this Indenture or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it has reasonable grounds to believe repayment of the funds or adequate indemnity against the risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
(d) Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee is subject to the provisions of this Section 7.1 and to the provisions of the TIA.
(e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
(f) The Trustee will not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree with the Company. Money and Government Obligations held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds or items except to the extent required by law.
 
Section 7.2. .
Rights of Trustee
(a) The Trustee may rely on any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel which conforms to Section 11.5. The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such an Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel.
(c) The Trustee may act through agents and will not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
(d) The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers, except conduct which constitutes willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.
(e) The Trustee may consult with counsel, and the Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits in reliance on, and in accordance with, written advice of counsel.
(f) The Trustee will not be required to investigate any facts or matters stated in any document, but if it decides to investigate any matters or facts, the Trustee or its agents or attorneys will be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company.
Section 7.3. . The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or any of its affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, co-registrar or co-paying agent may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
Individual Rights of Trustee
Section 7.4. . The Trustee (i) is not responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture, (ii) will not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes, and (iii) will not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture, other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication, or in any document used in the sale of the Notes, other than statements, if any, provided in writing by the Trustee for use in such a document.
Trustee's Disclaimer
Section 7.5. . The Trustee will give to the Holders notice of any Default with regard to the Notes known to the Trustee, within 90 days after it occurs; provided, that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on any Note, the Trustee will be protected in withholding notice of the Default if and so long as a committee of its Trust Officers in good faith determines that the withholding of the notice is in the interests of the Holders.
Notice of Defaults
Section 7.6. . Within 60 days after each November 30 beginning with the November 30 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee will mail to each Holder, at the name and address which appears on the registration books of the Company, and to each Holder who has, within the two years preceding the mailing, filed that person's name and address with the Trustee for that purpose and each Holder whose name and address have been
Reports by Trustee
 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.5, a brief report dated as of that November 30 which complies with TIA Section 313(a). The Trustee also will comply with TIA Section 313(b).
A copy of each report will at the time of its mailing to Holders be filed with each stock exchange on which the Notes are listed and also with the SEC. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting of the Notes.
Section 7.7. . The Company will pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for its services. The Trustee's compensation will not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company will reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, in addition to the compensation for its services. Those expenses will include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee's agents, counsel, accountants and experts. The Company will indemnify the Trustee against any and all loss, liability or expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by it in connection with the administration of the trust created by this Indenture and the performance of its duties under this Indenture. The Trustee will notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company will not relieve the Company of its obligations under this Section. The Company will defend the claim and the Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company will pay the fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss, expense or liability incurred by the Trustee to the extent it is due to the Trustee's own willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.
Compensation and Indemnity
To secure the Company's obligation to make payments to the Trustee under this Section 7.7, the Trustee will have a lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, other than money or property held in trust to pay principal or interest on the Notes. Those obligations of the Company will survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in clause (6) or (7) of Section 6.1 occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services of the Trustee are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
For purposes of this Section 7.7, "Trustee" will include any predecessor Trustee, but the willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith of any Trustee will not affect the rights of any other Trustee under this Section 7.7.
Section 7.8. . The Trustee may resign at any time by so notifying the Company. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company and may appoint a successor Trustee. The Company may remove the Trustee if:
Replacement of Trustee
(1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
 
(2) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
(3) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
(4) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company will promptly appoint a successor Trustee. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
No removal or appointment of a Trustee will be valid if that removal or appointment would conflict with any law applicable to the Company.
A successor Trustee will deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately after that, the retiring Trustee will, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.7, transfer all property held by it as a Trustee to the successor Trustee, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee will become effective, and the successor Trustee will have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. A successor Trustee will mail notice of its succession to each Holder.
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section, the Company's obligations under Section 7.7 will continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
Section 7.9. . If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust assets to, another Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person will, without any further act, be the successor Trustee.
Successor Trustee by Merger, etc
If at the time a successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to the Trustee succeeds to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Notes have been authenticated but not delivered, the successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of the predecessor Trustee, and deliver the Notes which were authenticated by the predecessor Trustee; and if at that time any of the Notes have not been authenticated, the successor to the Trustee may authenticate those Notes either in the name of the predecessor or in its own name as the
 
successor to the Trustee; and in either case the certificates of authentication will have the full force provided in this Indenture for certificates of authentication.
Section 7.10. . The Trustee will at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Section 310(a). The Trustee will at all times have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recently published annual report of condition, which will be deemed for this paragraph to be its combined capital and surplus. The Trustee will comply with TIA Section 310(b), including the optional provision permitted by the second sentence of TIA Section 310(b)(9).
Eligibility; Disqualification
Section 7.11. . The Trustee will comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed will be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated.
Preferential Collection of Claims
Section 8.1. . When (1) the Company shall deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Notes theretofore authenticated (other than any Notes which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) and not theretofore canceled, or (2) all the Notes not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year, whether at stated maturity or upon redemption and the Company shall deposit with the Trustee, in trust, monies and/or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay at the Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as applicable, all sums which will become due with regard to all Notes theretofore authenticated (other than any Notes which shall have been mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) and not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including the principal amount and interest accrued to the Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as applicable, and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect with respect to the Notes (except as to (i) remaining rights of registration of transfer, substitution and exchange of Notes, (ii) rights hereunder of Holders to receive payments of the principal amount, including interest due with respect to the Notes and the other rights, duties and obligations of Holders, as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the amounts, if any, so deposited with the Trustee and (iii) the rights, obligations and immunities of the Trustee under this Indenture with respect to the Notes), and the Trustee, on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as required by Section 8.3 and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to the Notes; the Company, however, hereby agrees to reimburse the Trustee for any costs or expenses thereafter reasonably and properly incurred by the Trustee, and to compensate the Trustee for any services thereafter reasonably and properly rendered by the Trustee, in connection with this Indenture or the Notes.
Termination of the Company's Obligations
 
Section 8.2. . Subject to Section 8.4, the Trustee will hold in trust money or U.S. Government Obligations deposited with it pursuant to Section 8.1. It will apply the deposited money and the money from the U.S. Government Obligations through the Paying Agent and in accordance with this Indenture to the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes with regard to which the money or U.S. Government Obligations were deposited.
Application of Trust Money
Section 8.3. . Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under Section 8.1, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Officers' Certificate; Opinion of Counsel
Each such Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant pursuant to the previous paragraph shall comply with the provisions of Section 11.5.
Section 8.4. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent will promptly pay to the Company upon request any excess money or securities held by them at any time. The Trustee and the Paying Agent will pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal, premium or interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After such payment, all liability of the Trustee and the Paying Agent with respect to that money will cease.
Repayment to the Company
Section 8.5. . If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 8.2 by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture shall be revived and reinstated with respect to the Notes as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.1 until such time as the Trustee or the Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.2, provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal amount or Redemption Price of or interest on any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
Section 9.1. . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes without notice to or consent of any Holder:
Without Consent of Holders
(1) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
(2) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder;
 
(3) to comply with Article 5;
(4) to add to the covenants of the Company further covenants, restrictions or conditions that the Board of Directors and the Trustee shall consider to be for the benefit of the Holders of Notes, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions or conditions a Default or an Event of Default permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in this Indenture;
(5) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes; or
(6) to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary for this Indenture to comply with the TIA, or under any similar federal statute hereafter enacted.
After an amendment under this Section becomes effective, the Company will mail to the Holders a notice briefly describing the amendment. The failure to give such notice to all Holders, or any defect in a notice, will not impair or affect the validity of an amendment under this Section.
Section 9.2. . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes without notice to any Holder but with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may waive compliance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes without notice to any Holder. However, without the consent of the Holder so affected, no amendment, supplement or waiver, including a waiver pursuant to Section 6.4, may:
With Consent of Holders
(1) extend the fixed maturity of any Note or any installment of interest thereon, reduce the principal amount, interest rate, Redemption Price, or amount due upon acceleration, impair the right of a Holder to institute suit for the payment thereof, change the currency in which the Notes are payable;
(2) reduce the percentage of Notes required to consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
(3) release any Guarantor except as provided in Article X hereof; or
(4) make any change in Section 6.4 or 6.8 or the second sentence of this Section.
It will not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but it will be sufficient if the consent approves the substance of the amendment, supplement or waiver.
Section 9.3. . Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes will comply with the TIA as then in effect.
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
 
Section 9.4. . A consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver by a Holder will bind the Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent as to the Holder's Note or portion of a Note. For a revocation to be effective, the Trustee must receive notice of the revocation before the date the amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective. After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms, it will bind every Holder of every Note.
Revocation and Effect of Consents
Section 9.5. . If an amendment, supplement or waiver changes the terms of the Notes, the Trustee may require the Holder of a Note to deliver the Holder's Note to the Trustee, who will place an appropriate notation about the amendment, supplement or waiver on the Note and will return it to the Holder. Alternatively, the Company may, in exchange for the Note, issue, and the Trustee will authenticate, a new Note that reflects the amendment, supplement or waiver.
Notation on or Exchange of Notes
Section 9.6. . The Trustee will sign any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to Article II or this Article IX if the amendment, supplement or waiver does not adversely affect the rights, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does adversely affect those rights, liabilities or immunities, the Trustee may but need not sign it. The Company may not sign an amendment or supplement until the amendment or supplement is approved by an appropriate Board Resolution.
Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc
Section 10.1. . Each Guarantor, if any, hereby jointly and severally, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees (such guarantee to be referred to herein as a "Guarantee") to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, that: (a) all amounts due with respect to the Notes shall be duly and punctually paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal and (to the extent permitted by law) interest, if any, on the Notes and all other obligations of the Company or the Guarantors to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder and all other obligations shall be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same shall be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed, or failing performance of any other obligation of the Company to the Holders under this Indenture or under the Notes, for whatever reason, each Guarantor shall be obligated to pay, or to perform or cause the performance of, the same immediately. An Event of Default under this Indenture or the Notes shall constitute an event of default under each Guarantee, and shall entitle the Holders of Notes to accelerate the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder in the same manner and to the same extent as the obligations of the Company.
Unconditional Guarantee
 
Each of the Guarantors hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, any release of any other Guarantor, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same, whether or not a Guarantee is affixed to any particular Note, or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor. Each of the Guarantors hereby waives the benefit of diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that its Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes, this Indenture and each Guarantee. Each Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between it, on the one hand, and the Holders of Notes and the Trustee, on the other hand, (a) subject to this Article X, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article VI hereof for the purposes of each Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (b) in the event of any acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article VI hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of each Guarantee.
No stockholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator, past, present or future, of any Guarantor, as such, shall have any personal liability under any Guarantee by reason of his, her or its status as such stockholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator.
Each Guarantor that makes a payment or distribution under its Guarantee shall be entitled to a contribution from each other Guarantor in an amount pro rata, based on the net assets of each Guarantor, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Section 10.2. . The obligations of each Guarantor under its Guarantee will be limited to the maximum amount which, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under its Guarantee or pursuant to its contribution obligations under this Indenture, will result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under federal or state law.
Limitations on Guarantees; Release or Suspension of Particular Guarantors' Obligations
The Guarantors shall include (i) each of the Guarantors named on the signature pages of this Indenture and (ii) each of the Company's Subsidiaries that in the future executes a Guarantee in substantially the form of Exhibit F hereto in which such Subsidiary agrees to be bound by the terms hereof as a Guarantor.
If any Guarantor is released from its guarantee of the outstanding Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, such Guarantor shall be automatically released from its obligations as Guarantor, and from and after such date, such Guarantor shall cease to constitute a Guarantor.
 
The obligations of a Guarantor will be automatically suspended, and such Guarantor shall not constitute a Guarantor and shall not have any obligations with regard to the Notes, during any period when the principal amount of the Company's obligations and any Restricted Subsidiary's obligations as a guarantor of the Company's obligations, in each case other than the Notes and other Indebtedness containing provisions similar to this, that the Guarantor is guaranteeing total less than $75 million.
Section 10.3. . To further evidence the Guarantee set forth in Section 10.1, each Guarantor hereby agrees to execute and deliver to the Trustee a Guarantee in substantially the form of Exhibit F hereto. Such Guarantee shall be executed on behalf of each Guarantor by either manual or facsimile signature of an officer or agent of each Guarantor, each of whom, in each case, shall have been duly authorized to so execute by all requisite corporate action. The validity and enforceability of any Guarantee shall not be affected by the fact that it is not affixed to any Note or Notes.
Execution and Delivery of Guarantee
If an officer or agent of a Guarantor whose signature is on this Indenture or a Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates a Note to which such Guarantee relates or at any time thereafter, such Guarantor's Guarantee of such Note shall be valid nevertheless.
The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of any Guarantee set forth in this Indenture on behalf of each Guarantor.
Section 10.4. . If no Default exists or would exist under this Indenture, upon the sale or disposition of all of the Capital Stock of a Guarantor by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, or upon the consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into any Person (in each case, other than to the Company or an Affiliate of the Company or a Subsidiary), or if any Guarantor is dissolved or liquidated, such Guarantor and each Subsidiary of such Guarantor that is also a Guarantor shall be deemed released from all obligations under this Article X without any further action required on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
Release of a Guarantor due to Extraordinary Events
The Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably requested by the Company or a Guarantor in order to evidence the release of such Guarantor from its obligations under its Guarantee of the Notes under this Article X.
Nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor.
Section 10.5. . Until this Indenture is discharged and all of the Notes are discharged and paid in full, each Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives and agrees not to exercise any claim or other rights which it may now or hereafter acquire against the Company that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Company's obligations under the Notes or this Indenture and such Guarantor's obligations under each
Waiver of Subrogation
 
Guarantee and this Indenture, in any such instance including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution, indemnification, and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of the Holders against the Company, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity, or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from the Company, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim or other rights. If any amount shall be paid to any Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence and any amounts owing to the Trustee or the Holders of Notes under the Notes, this Indenture, or any other document or instrument delivered under or in connection with such agreements or instruments, shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall have been deemed to have been paid to such Guarantor for the benefit of, and held in trust for the benefit of, the Trustee or the Holders and shall forthwith be paid to the Trustee for the benefit of itself or such Holders to be credited and applied to the obligations in favor of the Trustee or the Holders, as the case may be, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. Each Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by this Indenture and that the waiver set forth in this Section 10.5 is knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
Section 10.6. . Each payment to be made by a Guarantor hereunder in respect of the Obligations shall be payable in the currency or currencies in which such Obligations are denominated, and shall be made without set-off, counterclaim, reduction or diminution of any kind or nature.
No Set-Off
Section 10.7. . The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder are and shall be absolute and unconditional and any monies or amounts expressed to be owing or payable by each Guarantor hereunder which may not be recoverable from such Guarantor on the basis of a Guarantee shall be recoverable from such Guarantor as a primary obligor and principal debtor in respect thereof.
Obligations Absolute
Section 10.8. . The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall be continuing and shall remain in full force and effect until all the obligations have been paid and satisfied in full. Each Guarantor agrees with the Trustee that it will from time to time deliver to the Trustee suitable acknowledgments of its continued liability hereunder and under any other instrument or instruments in such form as counsel to the Trustee may advise and as will prevent any action brought against it in respect of any default hereunder being barred by any statute of limitations now or hereafter in force and, in the event of the failure of a Guarantor so to do, it hereby irrevocably appoints the Trustee the attorney and agent of such Guarantor to make, execute and deliver such written acknowledgment or acknowledgments or other instruments as may from time to time become necessary or advisable, in the judgment of the Trustee on the advice of counsel, to fully maintain and keep in force the liability of such Guarantor hereunder.
Obligations Continuing
Section 10.9. . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 10.2 and 10.4, the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be satisfied, reduced or discharged except solely by the payment of such principal, premium, if any, interest, fees and other monies or amounts as may at any time prior to discharge of this Indenture pursuant to Article VIII be or become owing or payable under or by virtue of or otherwise in connection with the Notes or this Indenture.
Obligations Not Reduced
 
Section 10.10. . The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall continue to be effective or shall be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment which would otherwise have reduced the obligations of any Guarantor hereunder (whether such payment shall have been made by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of a Guarantor) is rescinded or reclaimed from the Trustee or any of the Holders upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of the Company or any Guarantor or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made. If demand for, or acceleration of the time for, payment by the Company is stayed upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of the Company, all such Indebtedness otherwise subject to demand for payment or acceleration shall nonetheless be payable by each Guarantor as provided herein.
Obligations Reinstated
Section 10.11. . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 10.2 and 10.4, the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be affected, impaired or diminished in any way by any act, omission, matter or thing whatsoever, occurring before, upon or after any demand for payment hereunder (and whether or not known or consented to by any Guarantor or any of the Holders) which, but for this provision, might constitute a whole or partial defense to a claim against any Guarantor hereunder or might operate to release or otherwise exonerate any Guarantor from any of its obligations hereunder or otherwise affect such obligations, whether occasioned by default of any of the Holders or otherwise, including, without limitation:
Obligations Not Affected
(a) any limitation of status or power, disability, incapacity or other circumstance relating to the Company or any other person, including any insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, readjustment, composition, dissolution, winding up or other proceeding involving or affecting the Company or any other person;
(b) any irregularity, defect, unenforceability or invalidity in respect of any indebtedness or other obligation of the Company or any other person under this Indenture, the Notes or any other document or instrument;
(c) any failure of the Company, whether or not without fault on its part, to perform or comply with any of the provisions of this Indenture or the Notes, or to give notice thereof to a Guarantor;
(d) the taking or enforcing or exercising or the refusal or neglect to take or enforce or exercise any right or remedy from or against the Company or any other Person or their respective assets or the release or discharge of any such right or remedy;
(e) the granting of time, renewals, extensions, compromises, concessions, waivers, releases, discharges and other indulgences to the Company or any other Person;
(f) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, any of the Notes, or any other amendment, variation, supplement, replacement or waiver of, or any consent to departure from, any of the Notes or this Indenture, including, without limitation, any increase or decrease in any amount due with respect to any of the Notes;
(g) any change in the ownership, control, name, objects, businesses, assets, capital structure or constitution of the Company or a Guarantor;
 
(h) any merger or amalgamation of the Company or a Guarantor with any Person or Persons;
(i) the occurrence of any change in the laws, rules, regulations or ordinances of any jurisdiction by any present or future action of any governmental authority or court amending, varying, reducing or otherwise affecting, or purporting to amend, vary, reduce or otherwise affect, any of the Obligations or the obligations of a Guarantor under its Guarantee; and
(j) any other circumstance (other than by complete, irrevocable payment) that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of the Company under this Indenture or the Notes or of a Guarantor in respect of its Guarantee hereunder.
Section 10.12. . Without in any way limiting the provisions of Section 10.1 hereof, each Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance hereof, notice of any liability of any Guarantor hereunder, notice or proof of reliance by the Holders upon the obligations of any Guarantor hereunder, and diligence, presentment, demand for payment on the Company, protest, notice of dishonor or non-payment of any of the Obligations, or other notice or formalities to the Company or any Guarantor of any kind whatsoever.
Waiver
Section 10.13. . Neither the Trustee nor any other Person shall have any obligation to enforce or exhaust any rights or remedies or to take any other steps under any security for the Obligations or against the Company or any other Person or any Property of the Company or any other Person before the Trustee is entitled to demand payment and performance by any or all Guarantors of their liabilities and obligations under their Guarantees or under this Indenture.
No Obligation to Take Action Against the Company
Section 10.14. . The Holders, without releasing, discharging, limiting or otherwise affecting in whole or in part the obligations and liabilities of any Guarantor hereunder and without the consent of or notice to any Guarantor, may:
Dealing with the Company and Others
(a) grant time, renewals, extensions, compromises, concessions, waivers, releases, discharges and other indulgences to the Company or any other Person;
(b) take or abstain from taking security or collateral from the Company or from perfecting security or collateral of the Company;
(c) release, discharge, compromise, realize, enforce or otherwise deal with or do any act or thing in respect of (with or without consideration) any and all collateral, mortgages or other security given by the Company or any third party with respect to the obligations or matters contemplated by this Indenture or the Notes;
(d) accept compromises or arrangements from the Company;
(e) apply all monies at any time received from the Company or from any security upon such part of the Obligations as the Holders may see fit or change any such application in whole or in part from time to time as the Holders may see fit; and
 
(f) otherwise deal with, or waive or modify their right to deal with, the Company and all other Persons and any security as the Holders or the Trustee may see fit.
Section 10.15. . If any Guarantor fails to pay in accordance with Section 10.1 hereof, the Trustee may proceed in its name as trustee hereunder in the enforcement of the Guarantee of any such Guarantor and such Guarantor's obligations thereunder and hereunder by any remedy provided by law, whether by legal proceedings or otherwise, and to recover from such Guarantor the obligations.
Default and Enforcement
Section 10.16. . No amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Indenture relating to any Guarantor or consent to any departure by any Guarantor or any other Person from any such provision will in any event be effective or affect the obligation of any other Guarantor unless it is signed by such Guarantor and the Trustee.
Amendment, Etc
Section 10.17. . Each Guarantor hereby acknowledges communication of the terms of this Indenture and the Notes and consents to and approves of the same.
Acknowledgment
Section 10.18. . Each Guarantor shall pay on demand by the Trustee any and all costs, fees and expenses (including, without limitation, legal fees) incurred by the Trustee, its agents, advisors and counsel or any of the Holders in enforcing any of their rights under any Guarantee.
Costs and Expenses
Section 10.19. . No Guarantee shall operate by way of merger of any of the obligations of a Guarantor under any other agreement, including, without limitation, this Indenture. No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Trustee or the Holders, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under the Notes or the Guarantees, shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under this Indenture or the Notes or the Guarantees preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges in the Guarantee and under this Indenture, the Notes and any other document or instrument between a Guarantor and/or the Company and the Trustee are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
No Merger or Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
Section 10.20. . Without prejudice to the survival of any of the other obligations of each Guarantor hereunder, the obligations of each Guarantor under Section 10.1 shall survive until the indefeasible payment in full of the Obligations and shall be enforceable against such Guarantor without regard to and without giving effect to any defense, right of offset or counterclaim available to or which may be asserted by the Company or any Guarantor.
Survival of Obligations
Section 10.21. . The obligations of each Guarantor under its Guarantee and this Indenture are in addition to and not in substitution for any other obligations to the Trustee or to any of the Holders in relation to this Indenture or the Notes and any guarantees or security at any time held by or for the benefit of any of them.
Guarantee in Addition to Other Obligations
Section 10.22. . Any provision of this Article X which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate the remaining provisions and any such
Severability
 
prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction unless its removal would substantially defeat the basic intent, spirit and purpose of this Indenture and this Article X.
Section 10.23. . Each Guarantee shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Guarantor and the Trustee and the Holders and their respective successors and permitted assigns, except that no Guarantor may assign any of its obligations hereunder or thereunder.
Successors and Assigns
Section 10.24. . Each Guarantor acknowledges that, by virtue of its Guarantee, it is becoming an "obligor" on indenture securities under the TIA.
Acknowledgement under TIA
Section 11.1. .
TIA Controls
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control; , , that this Section 11.1 shall not of itself require that this Indenture or the Trustee be qualified under the TIA or constitute any admission or acknowledgment by any party hereto that any such qualification is required prior to the time this Indenture and the Trustee are required by the TIA to be so qualified.
provided
however
Section 11.2. .
Notices
Any notices or other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be sufficiently given if made by hand delivery, by telex, by telecopier or overnight courier guaranteeing next-day delivery or registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:
if to the Company:
Lennar Corporation
700 N.W. 107th Avenue
Miami, Florida 33172
Attn: General Counsel
if to the Trustee:
JPMorgan Chase Bank
4 NY Plaza, 15
th
Floor
New York, NY 10004
 
with a copy to:
J.P. Morgan
Institutional Trust Services
GIS Unit Trust Window
4 New York Plaza, 1st Floor
New York, New York 10004
Each of the Company and the Trustee by written notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for notices to such Person. Any notice or communication to the Company or the Trustee shall be deemed to have been given or made as of the date so delivered if hand delivered; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if faxed; and five (5) calendar days after mailing if sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid (except that a notice of change of address shall not be deemed to have been given until actually received by the addressee).
Any notice or communication mailed to a Holder shall be mailed by first class mail, certified or registered return receipt requested, or by overnight courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar. Any notice or communication shall be mailed to any Person as described in TIA  313(c), to the extent required by the TIA.
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
Section 11.3. .
Communications by Holders with Other Holders
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and any other Person shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
Section 11.4. .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
 
 
Section 11.5. .
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture, other than the Officers' Certificate required by Section 4.4, shall include:
 
 
 
 
Section 11.6. .
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Registrar
The Trustee may make reasonable rules in accordance with the Trustee's customary practices for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Paying Agent or Registrar may make reasonable rules for its functions.
Section 11.7. .
Legal Holidays
If any payment date is due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment may be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Section 11.8. .
Governing Law
THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING SECTION 5-1401 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAWS RULES THAT WOULD APPLY THE LAWS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION. Each of the parties hereto agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York sitting in the County of New York, or of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Indenture.
Section 11.9. .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
 
Section 11.10. .
No Personal Liability
No director, officer, employee or stockholder of the Company, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
Section 11.11. . All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind their successors and permitted assigns. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors and permitted assigns.
Successors
Section 11.12. . All parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together shall represent the same agreement.
Duplicate Originals
Section 11.13. . In case any one or more of the provisions in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby, it being intended that all of the provisions hereof shall be enforceable to the full extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties to this Indenture have caused it to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS SECURITY MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER.
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) THIS SECURITY MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) TO THE ISSUER OR ANY SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER, (II) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (III) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 501(a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), (IV) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (V) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE) OR (VI) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH CASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE U.S., AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY SUBSEQUENT PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE.
[THE FOREGOING LEGEND MAY BE REMOVED FROM THE SECURITY ON SATISFACTION OF THE CONDITIONS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE.]
 
CUSIP No.: 526057AT1
 
Interest Rate: 5.95% per annum.
Interest Payment Dates: December 15 and June 15, commencing December 15, 2006
Record Dates: December 1 and June 1
Lennar Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes any successor entities), for value received, promises to pay to              or registered assigns, on October 17, 2011, the principal amount of                      Dollars ($                     ), together with interest thereon as hereinafter provided.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Lennar Corporation has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
Dated:
                                    
 
 
Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture, dated as of April 26, 2006, relating to the Notes (the ""), and as amended from time to time, by and among Lennar Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Guarantors named therein and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A. as trustee (the "").
Indenture
Company
Trustee
 
The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum above. Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the Issue Date. The Company shall pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing as of the Interest Payment Date referred to above and upon redemption. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and, in the case of a partial month, the actual number of days elapsed.
The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the rate borne by the Notes.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall (a) pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are the registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Record Date immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date even if the Notes are canceled, transferred or exchanged after such Record Date, and (b) make all other payments in respect of the Notes to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Business Day preceding the Redemption Date or Maturity, as the case may be. Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Notes referred to in clause (b) of the preceding sentence. The Company shall pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make the cash payments by check payable in such money.
 
Initially, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association (the "Trustee"), shall act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
 
The Company issued the Notes under the Indenture. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Notes of the Company designated as its 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series A (the ""). The Notes include the Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Unrestricted Notes, as defined below, issued in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Unrestricted Notes are treated as a single class of securities under the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (the ""), as in effect on the date of the Indenture. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company. Each Holder, by accepting a Note, agrees to be bound by all of the terms and provisions of the Indenture, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Initial Notes
TIA
 
No sinking fund is provided for the Notes. The Notes are redeemable as a whole, or from time to time in part, at any time at the option of the Company at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of: (a) 100% of their principal amount; and (b) the present value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on the Notes being redeemed on the Redemption Date, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis, at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points (0.20%), together, in either case, with accrued interest to the Redemption Date on their principal amount.
 
Notice of redemption at the option of the Company shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Notes (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, interest ceases to accrue on such Notes or portions thereof on and after such date. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000.
 
Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will be obligated to consummate an exchange offer pursuant to which the Holder of this Note shall have the right to exchange this Note for the Company's 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series B (the ""), which will be registered under the Securities Act, in like principal amount and having terms identical in all material respects as the Initial Notes. The Holders of the Initial Notes shall be entitled to receive certain additional interest payments in the event such exchange offer is not consummated and upon certain other conditions, all pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement.
Unrestricted Notes
 
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiplies of $1,000. A Holder may transfer Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any governmental taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Notes selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Note to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Note not to be redeemed) or any Notes for a period of 15 days before any selection of Notes to be redeemed.
 
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or property held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such return, shall at the expense of the Company cause to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or mail to each such Holder notice that such money or property remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication or mailing, any unclaimed money or property then remaining shall be returned to the Company. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or property must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Notes may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding and (ii) certain defaults or noncompliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Notes to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to make any change that does not adversely affect the right of any Holder, to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the Trustee as security for the Notes any property or assets, to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company (or successive successions) and the assumption by the successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions or conditions as the Board of Directors and the Trustee shall consider to be for the benefit of the Holders of Notes, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions or conditions a Default or an Event of Default
 
permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in the Indenture, to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes, or to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of the Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary for the Indenture to comply with the TIA, or under any similar federal statute hereafter enacted.
 
Under the Indenture, Events of Default include (i) a default by the Company in the payment of any interest which continues for more than 30 days after the due date, (ii) a default by the Company in the payment of any principal or Redemption Price due with respect to the Notes; (iii) a default by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to its obligation to pay Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than Non-Recourse Indebtedness), which default shall have resulted in the acceleration of, or be a failure to pay at final maturity, Indebtedness aggregating more than $50 million; (iv) a failure to perform any other covenant or warranty of the Company herein and in the Indenture, which continues for 30 days after written notice; (v) final judgments or orders are rendered against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary which require the payment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of an amount (to the extent not covered by insurance) in excess of $50 million and such judgments or orders remain unstayed or unsatisfied for more than 60 days and are not being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (vi) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, pursuant to any Bankruptcy Law applicable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary: (A) commences a voluntary case; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case; (C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (vii) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any applicable Bankruptcy Law: (A) for relief in an involuntary case against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (B) appointing a Custodian of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its respective property; or (C) ordering the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Restricted Security; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, may declare the outstanding principal of the Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration on all of the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which shall result in the outstanding principal amount of all Notes being declared due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture and the Notes unless it receives reasonable indemnity or security. Subject to certain limitations, conditions and exceptions, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power, including the annulment of a declaration of acceleration. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment of amounts specified in clauses (i) and (ii) above) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests.
 
The Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
A director, officer, or employee, as such, of the Company or any Subsidiary, the Indenture or any stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
 
This Note will be entitled to the benefits of certain Guarantees, if any, made for the benefit of the Holders. Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations thereunder of the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders.
 
The Notes shall be direct, unsecured obligations of the Company and shall rank in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company. The Guarantees shall be direct, unsecured obligations of the Guarantors and shall rank in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Guarantors.
pari passu
pari passu
 
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TENANT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE.
 
The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Note in larger type. Requests may be made to:
Lennar Corporation
700 N.W. 107
th
Avenue
Miami, Florida 33172
Attn: General Counsel
 
If you, the Holder, want to assign this Note, fill in the form below and have your signature guaranteed:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
__________________________________________
__________________________________________
__________________________________________
(Print or type name, address and zip code and social security or tax ID number of assignee)
and irrevocably appoint , agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                        
Dated:
                                
 
Signature Guarantee:
                                                             
Signature must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution," that is, a bank, stockbroker, savings and loan association or credit union meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
STAMP
In connection with any transfer of this Note occurring prior to the date which is the earlier of (i) the date of the declaration by the SEC of the effectiveness of a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), covering resales of this Note (which effectiveness shall not have been suspended or terminated at the date of the transfer) and (ii) the second anniversary of the Issue Date (, , that neither the Company nor any affiliate of the Company has held any beneficial interest in such Note, or portion thereof, or any predecessor security at any time on or prior to the second anniversary of the Issue Date), the undersigned confirms that it has not utilized any general solicitation or general advertising in connection with the transfer:
Securities Act
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and unless the box below is checked, the undersigned confirms that such Note is not being transferred to an "affiliate" of the Company as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (an "Affiliate"):
Unless one of the items is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered Holder thereof; , , that if item (3), (4), (5) or (7) is checked, the Company or the Trustee may require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Notes, in their sole discretion, such written legal opinions, certifications (including an investment letter in the case of box (3) or (4) and other information as the Trustee or the Company have reasonably requested to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
provided
however
If none of the foregoing items are checked, the Trustee or Registrar shall not be obligated to register this Note in the name of any person other than the Holder hereof unless and until the conditions to any such transfer of registration set forth herein and in Section 2.17 of the Indenture shall have been satisfied.
 
Signature Guarantee:
                                                                 
The undersigned represents and warrants that it is purchasing this Note for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the
 
Securities Act and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as the undersigned has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon the undersigned's foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A.
 
 
EXHIBIT B
CUSIP No.: 526057AU8
 
Interest Rate: 5.95% per annum.
Interest Payment Dates: December 15 and June 15, commencing December 15, 2006
Record Dates: December 1 and June 1
Lennar Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes any successor entities), for value received, promises to pay to              or registered assigns, on October 17, 2011, the principal amount of                      Dollars ($             ), together with interest thereon as hereinafter provided.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Lennar Corporation has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
 
Dated:
                                             
 
 
Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture, dated as of April 26, 2006, relating to the Notes, (the ""), and as amended from time to time, by and among Lennar Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Guarantors named therein and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A. as trustee (the "").
Indenture
Company
Trustee
 
The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum above. Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the Issue Date. The Company shall pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing as of the Interest Payment Date referred to above and upon redemption. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and, in the case of a partial month, the actual number of days elapsed.
The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the rate borne by the Notes.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall (a) pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are the registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Record Date immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date even if the Notes are canceled transferred or exchanged after such Record Date, and (b) make all other payments in respect of the Notes to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Business Day preceding the Redemption Date or Maturity, as the case may be. Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Notes referred to in clause (b) of the preceding sentence. The Company shall pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make the cash payments by check payable in such money.
 
Initially, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association (the "Trustee"), shall act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
 
The Company issued the Notes under the Indenture. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Notes of the Company designated as its 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011, Series B (the ""). The Notes include the Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Unrestricted Notes, issued in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Unrestricted Notes are treated as a single class of securities under the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (the ""), as in effect on the date of the Indenture. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company. Each Holder, by accepting a Note, agrees to be bound by all of the terms and provisions of the Indenture, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Unrestricted Notes
TIA
 
No sinking fund is provided for the Notes. The Notes are redeemable as a whole, or from time to time in part, at any time at the option of the Company at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of: (a) 100% of their principal amount; and (b) the present value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on the Notes being redeemed on the Redemption Date, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis, at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points (0.20%), together, in either case, with accrued interest to the Redemption Date on their principal amount.
 
Notice of redemption at the option of the Company shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Notes (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, interest ceases to accrue on such Notes or portions thereof on and after such date. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000.
 
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiplies of $1,000. A Holder may transfer Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any governmental taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Notes selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Note to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Note not to be redeemed) or any Notes for a period of 15 days before any selection of Notes to be redeemed.
 
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or property held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such return, shall at the expense of the Company cause to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or mail to each such Holder notice that such money or property remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication or mailing, any unclaimed money or property then remaining shall be returned to the Company. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or property must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Notes may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding and (ii) certain defaults or noncompliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Notes to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to make any change that does not adversely affect the right of any Holder, to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the Trustee as security for the Notes any property or assets, to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company (or successive successions) and the assumption by the successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions or conditions as the Board of Directors and the Trustee shall consider to be for the benefit of the Holders of Notes, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions or conditions a Default or an Event of Default permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in the Indenture, to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes, or to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of the Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary for the Indenture to comply with the TIA, or under any similar federal statute hereafter enacted.
 
Under the Indenture, Events of Default include (i) a default by the Company in the payment of any interest which continues for more than 30 days after the due date, (ii) a default by the Company in the payment of any principal or Redemption Price due with respect to the Notes; (iii) a default by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to its obligation to pay Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than Non-Recourse Indebtedness),
 
which default shall have resulted in the acceleration of, or be a failure to pay at final maturity, Indebtedness aggregating more than $50 million; (iv) a failure to perform any other covenant or warranty of the Company herein and in the Indenture, which continues for 30 days after written notice; (v) final judgments or orders are rendered against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary which require the payment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of an amount (to the extent not covered by insurance) in excess of $50 million and such judgments or orders remain unstayed or unsatisfied for more than 60 days and are not being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (vi) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, pursuant to any Bankruptcy Law applicable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary: (A) commences a voluntary case; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case; (C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (vii) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any applicable Bankruptcy Law: (A) for relief in an involuntary case against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (B) appointing a Custodian of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its respective property; or (C) ordering the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Restricted Security; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, may declare the outstanding principal of the Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration on all of the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which shall result in the outstanding principal amount of all Notes being declared due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture and the Notes unless it receives reasonable indemnity or security. Subject to certain limitations, conditions and exceptions, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power, including the annulment of a declaration of acceleration. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment of amounts specified in clauses (i) and (ii) above) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests.
 
The Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
A director, officer, or employee, as such, of the Company or any Subsidiary, the Indenture or any stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder
 
waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
 
This Note will be entitled to the benefits of certain Guarantees, if any, made for the benefit of the Holders. Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations thereunder of the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders.
 
The Notes shall be direct, unsecured obligations of the Company and shall rank in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company. The Guarantees shall be direct, unsecured obligations of the Guarantors and shall rank in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Guarantors.
pari passu
pari passu
 
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TENANT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE.
The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Note in larger type. Requests may be made to:
Lennar Corporation
700 N.W. 107
th
Avenue
Miami, Florida 33172
Attn: General Counsel
 
If you, the Holder, want to assign this Note, fill in the form below and have your signature guaranteed:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
______________________________________
______________________________________
______________________________________
(Print or type name, address and zip code and social security or tax ID number of assignee)
and irrevocably appoint , agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                        
 
Signature Guarantee:
                                                         
Signature must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution," that is, a bank, stockbroker, savings and loan association or credit union meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 

Exhibit No. 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. means Not Applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of April 26, 2006, among L C, a Delaware corporation (the ""), each of the Guarantors party hereto and J.P. M T C, as Trustee (the "").
ENNAR
ORPORATION
Company
ORGAN
RUST
OMPANY
Trustee
The Company has duly authorized the creation of an issue of its 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series A, and its 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series B, to be issued in exchange for the 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series A, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement (as defined herein) and, to provide therefor, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture. All things necessary to make the Notes (as defined), when duly issued and executed by the Company, and authenticated and delivered hereunder, the valid obligations of the Company, and to make this Indenture a valid and binding agreement of the Company, have been done.
Each party hereto agrees as follows for the benefit of the other parties and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders (as defined) of the Company's 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series A and Series B.
Section 1.1. Definitions.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-Registrar.
Agent
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.16.
Agent Members
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.2.
Authenticating Agent
"" has the meaning provided in Section 6.1.
Bankruptcy Law
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board of Directors
"" means a resolution by the Board of Directors or Executive Committee of the Company certified by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary as being duly adopted and in full force and effect.
Board Resolution
 
"" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a Legal Holiday in New York, New York.
Business Day
"" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of or in such Person's capital stock or other equity interests, and options, rights or warrants to purchase such capital stock or other equity interests, whether now outstanding or issued after the Issue Date.
Capital Stock
"" means the common stock, par value $.10 per share, of the Company, as that stock may be reconstituted from time to time.
Common Stock
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date, as set forth in the daily statistical release (or any successor release) published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and designated "Composite 3:30 p.m. Quotations for U.S. Government Securities," or (ii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published or does not contain such prices on such Business Day, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations are obtained, the average of all such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"means the total amount of assets which would be included on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries under GAAP (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom:
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets"
 
 
 
 
"" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business is principally administered (which at the date of this Indenture is at 10151 Deerwood Park Blvd., Building 400, 5th Floor, Jacksonville, Florida 32256).
Corporate Trust Office
"" has the meaning provided in Section 6.1.
Custodian
"" means any event which, upon the giving of notice or passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.11.
Default Interest Payment Date
"" means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and successors.
Depositary
"$" means the lawful currency of the United States.
"" has the meaning provided in Section 6.1.
Event of Default
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series B to be issued in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to (i) the Registration Rights Agreement, or (ii) with respect to Initial Notes issued under this Indenture subsequent to the Issue Date pursuant to Section 2.2, a registration rights agreement substantially identical to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Notes
"" has the meaning provided in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
"" means the period commencing on December 1 of a year and ending on the next November 30 or such other period (not to exceed 12 months or 53 weeks) as the Company may from time to time adopt as its fiscal year.
Fiscal Year
"" of any Person means all Indebtedness for borrowed money created, incurred, assumed or guaranteed in any manner by such person, and all Indebtedness, contingent or otherwise, incurred or assumed by such person in connection with the acquisition of any business, property or asset, which in each case matures more than one year after, or which by its terms is renewable or extendible or payable out of the proceeds of similar Indebtedness incurred pursuant to the terms of any revolving credit agreement or any similar agreement at the option of such person for a period ending more than one year after the date as of which Funded Debt is being determined; provided, however, that Funded Debt shall not include (i) any Indebtedness for the payment, redemption or satisfaction of which money (or evidences of indebtedness, if permitted under the instrument creating or evidencing such indebtedness) in the necessary amount shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust with a trustee or proper depository either on or before the maturity or redemption date thereof or (ii) any Indebtedness of such person to any of its subsidiaries or of any subsidiary to such person or any other subsidiary or (iii) any Indebtedness incurred in connection with the financing of operating, construction or
Funded Debt
 
acquisition projects, provided that the recourse for such indebtedness is limited to the assets of such projects.
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession of the United States, as in effect on the Issue Date.
GAAP
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.1.
Global Note
"" has the meaning provided in Section 10.1.
Guarantee
"" means (1) initially, each of the Guarantors named on the signature pages of this Indenture, and (2) each of the Company's Subsidiaries which becomes a guarantor of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, in each case subject to release or suspension as provided in this Indenture.
Guarantor
"" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered on the Registrar's books.
Holder
"" means, a permanent global note in registered form representing the aggregate principal amount of Notes sold to Institutional Accredited Investors.
IAI Global Note
"" means, with respect to the Company or any Subsidiary, and without duplication, (a) the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on, and fees, costs, enforcement expenses, collateral protection expenses and other reimbursement or indemnity obligations in respect to all indebtedness or obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary to any Person, including but not limited to banks and other lending institutions, for money borrowed that is evidenced by a note, bond, debenture, loan agreement, or similar instrument or agreement (including purchase money obligations with original maturities in excess of one year and noncontingent reimbursement obligations in respect of amounts paid under letters of credit); (b) all reimbursement obligations and other liabilities (contingent or otherwise) of the Company or any Subsidiary with respect to letters of credit, bank guarantees or bankers' acceptances, (c) all obligations and liabilities (contingent or otherwise) in respect of leases of the Company or any Subsidiary required, in conformity with GAAP, to be accounted for as capital lease obligations on the balance sheet of the Company, (d) all obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary (contingent or otherwise) with respect to an interest rate or other swap, cap or collar agreement or other similar instrument or agreement or foreign currency hedge, exchange, purchase or similar instrument or agreement, (e) all direct or indirect guaranties or similar agreements by the Company or any Subsidiary in respect of, and obligations or liabilities (contingent or otherwise) of the Company or such Subsidiary to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness, obligations or liabilities of another Person of the kind described in clauses (a) through (d), (f) any indebtedness or other obligations, excluding any operating leases the Company or any Subsidiary is currently (or may become) a party to, described in clauses (a) through (d) secured by any Lien existing on property which is owned or held by the Company or Subsidiary, regardless of whether the indebtedness or other obligation
Indebtedness
 
secured thereby shall have been assumed by the Company or such Subsidiary and (g) any and all deferrals, renewals, extensions and refinancing of, or amendments, modification or supplements to, any indebtedness, obligation or liability of the kind described in clauses (a) through (f).
"" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof.
Indenture
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means, collectively, (i) the 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series A, of the Company issued on the Issue Date and (ii) any other 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series A that are issued under this Indenture, subsequent to the Issue Date, pursuant to Section 2.2, for so long as each such securities constitute Restricted Securities.
Initial Notes
"" means Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., UBS Securities LLC, BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Calyon Securities (USA) Inc. and SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc.
Initial Purchasers
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as that term is defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act.
Institutional Accredited Investor
"" means the stated maturity of an installment of interest on the Notes.
Interest Payment Date
"" means April 26, 2006.
Issue Date
"" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions are not required to open in the State of New York.
Legal Holiday
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest of any kind.
Lien
"" means April 15, 2016.
Maturity Date
"" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary for which the holder of such Indebtedness has no recourse, directly or indirectly, to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary for the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Indebtedness, and for which the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is not, directly or indirectly, obligated or otherwise liable for the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Indebtedness, except pursuant to mortgages, deeds of trust or other security interests or other recourse, obligations or liabilities, in respect of specific land or other real property interests of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary securing such Indebtedness; provided, however, that recourse, obligations or liabilities solely for indemnities, breaches of warranties or representations contained in such mortgages, deeds of trust or grants of security interests in respect of Indebtedness will not prevent that Indebtedness from being classified as Non-Recourse Indebtedness.
Non-Recourse Indebtedness
 
"" means a person who is not a U.S. person, as defined in Regulation S.
Non-U.S. Person
"" means, collectively, the Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes, if any, and the Unrestricted Notes, treated as a single class of securities, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms of this Indenture, that are issued pursuant to this Indenture.
Notes
"" means all obligations for principal, premium, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing the Notes.
Obligations
"" means the Chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Secretary, the Controller or any Assistant Secretary of a Person.
Officer
"" when used with respect to the Company means a certificate signed by two Officers. Each such certificate will comply with Section 314 of the TIA and include the statements described in Section 12.05.
Officers' Certificate
"" means a written opinion from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee. That counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or the Trustee. Each such opinion will include the statements described in Section 11.5 if and to the extent required by that Section.
Opinion of Counsel
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.3.
Paying Agent
"" has the meaning provided in Section 4.6.
Permitted Liens
"" has the meaning provided in Section 4.7.
Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any government agency or political subdivision.
Person
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.1.
Physical Notes
"" means a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in the United States.
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" shall have the meaning provided in the Registration Rights Agreement(s).
Private Exchange Notes
"" means the legend initially set forth on the Initial Notes in the form set forth in Exhibit A.
Private Placement Legend
 
"" of any Person means all types of real, personal, tangible, intangible or mixed property owned by such Person, whether or not included in the most recent consolidated balance sheet of such Person and its Subsidiaries under GAAP.
Property
"" or "" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 144A.
Qualified Institutional Buyer
QIB
"" means the Record Date specified in the Notes.
Record Date
"" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
"" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture. For the avoidance of doubt, the Redemption Price excludes accrued interest to the Redemption Date.
Redemption Price
"" means (a) each of Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC (or their respective affiliates which are Primary Treasury Dealers), and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall not be a Primary Treasury Dealer the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (b) any other Primary Treasury Dealer(s) selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" has the meaning provided in Section 2.3.
Registrar
"" means, as applicable, (i) the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of the Issue Date among the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers relating to the Notes or (ii) any registration rights agreement, substantially identical to the Registration Rights Agreement, entered into among the Company, the Guarantors and the respective purchasers, on substantially identical terms, relating to any Initial Notes issued pursuant to Section 2.2.
Registration Rights Agreement
"" means Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
"" means a permanent global note in registered form representing the aggregate principal amount of Notes sold in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Regulation S Global Note
"" means, with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal (or of the portion) thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to
Remaining Scheduled Payments
 
such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act; , , that the Trustee shall be entitled to request and conclusively rely on an Opinion of Counsel with respect to whether any Note constitutes a Restricted Security.
Restricted Security
provided
however
"" means any Guarantor.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
"" means a sale or transfer made by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of any property which is either (A) a manufacturing facility, office building or warehouse whose book value equals or exceeds 1% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets as of the date of determination, or (B) another property (not including a model home) which exceeds 5% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets as of the date of determination, if such sale or transfer is made with the agreement, commitment or intention of the transferee of leasing such property to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary.
Sale-Leaseback Transaction
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means the senior credit facility dated as of June 17, 2005 between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative agent and the other lenders party thereto, as amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified from time to time.
Senior Credit Facility
"" means any state of the United States or the District of Columbia.
State
"" means (i) a corporation or other entity of which a majority in voting power of the stock or other interests is owned by the Company, by a Subsidiary of the Company or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company or (ii) a partnership, the sole general partner or partners of which are the Company and/or any Subsidiary.
Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the person named as such in this Indenture and, subject to the provisions of Article Seven of this Indenture, any successor to that person.
Trustee
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in effect on the date of this Indenture, except as otherwise provided in Section 9.3.
TIA
 
"" means the Chairman of the Board, the President or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee assigned by the Trustee to administer its corporate trust matters.
Trust Officer
"" means the United States of America.
United States
"" means one or more Notes that do not and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, including, without limitation, the Exchange Notes.
Unrestricted Notes
"" means direct obligations of, and obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America for the payment of which the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged.
U.S. Government Obligations
"" means such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
U.S. Legal Tender
Section 1.2. . Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, such provision is incorporated by reference in, and made a part of, this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
Incorporation by Reference of TIA
"" means the Notes.
indenture securities
"" means a Holder.
indenture security holder
"" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
"" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
"" on the indenture securities means the Company or any other obligor on the Notes.
obligor
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them therein.
Section 1.3. . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Rules of Construction
(1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
(2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP as of any date of determination;
(3) "or" is not exclusive;
(4) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular;
(5) "herein," "hereof" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
 
(6) any reference to a statute, law or regulation means that statute, law or regulation as amended and in effect from time to time and includes any successor statute, law or regulation; , , that any reference to the Bankruptcy Law shall mean the Bankruptcy Law as applicable to the relevant case.
provided
however
Section 2.1. . The Initial Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication relating thereto shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, , that any Initial Notes issued in a public offering shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto. The Exchange Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication relating thereto shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or depository rule or usage. The Company and the Trustee shall approve the form of the Notes and any notation, legend or endorsement on them. Each Note shall be dated the date of its issuance and shall show the date of its authentication.
Form and Dating
provided
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes annexed hereto as Exhibits A and B shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Notes offered and sold in reliance on Rule 144A and Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of one or more permanent global Notes in registered form, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A (each, a ""), deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided and shall bear the legend set forth in Exhibit C. The aggregate principal amount of a Global Note may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, as hereinafter provided.
Global Note
Notes issued in exchange for interests in a Global Note pursuant to Section 2.16 may be issued and Notes offered and sold in reliance on any other exemption from registration under the Securities Act other than as described in the preceding paragraph shall be issued in the form of permanent certificated Notes in registered form in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A (the "").
Physical Notes
All Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall remain in the form of a Global Note until the consummation of the Exchange Offer pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement; , , that all of the time periods specified in the Registration Rights Agreement to be complied with by the Company have been so complied with.
provided
however
Section 2.2. . An Officer of the Company (duly authorized by all requisite corporate actions) shall sign and attest to the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
Execution and Authentication; Aggregate Principal Amount
 
If an Officer whose signature is on a Note was an Officer at the time of such execution but no longer holds that office or position at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Note shall nevertheless be valid.
A Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Note. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
The Trustee shall authenticate all (i) Initial Notes; (ii) Private Exchange Notes from time to time for issue only in exchange for a like principal amount of Initial Notes and (iii) Unrestricted Notes from time to time upon a written order of the Company in the form of an Officers' Certificate of the Company. Each such written order shall specify the amount of Notes to be authenticated and the date on which the Notes are to be authenticated, whether the Notes are to be Initial Notes, Private Exchange Notes or Unrestricted Notes and whether the Notes are to be issued as Physical Notes or Global Notes or such other information as the Trustee may reasonably request.
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent (the "") reasonably acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. Unless otherwise provided in the appointment, an Authenticating Agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such Authenticating Agent. An Authenticating Agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or with any Affiliate of the Company.
Authenticating Agent
The Notes shall be issuable in fully registered form only, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. Subject to applicable law, the aggregate principal amount of the Notes which may be authenticated and delivered on the Issue Date shall not exceed $250,000,000; provided that, the Company may, without the consent of the Holders, issue additional Notes under this Indenture at any time thereafter.
Section 2.3. . The Company shall maintain an office or agency (which shall be located in the Borough of Manhattan in the City of New York, State of New York) where (a) Notes may be presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange (""), (b) Notes may be presented or surrendered for payment ("") and (c) notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Registrar shall keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more co-Registrars and one or more additional paying agents reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. The term "Paying Agent" includes any additional Paying Agent. The Company may act as its own Paying Agent. If the Company elects to act as its own paying agent, the Company will notify the Trustee of its election and will hold for the benefit of the Holders all assets for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, the Notes.
Registrar and Paying Agent
Registrar
Paying Agent
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Agent not a party to this Indenture, which agreement shall incorporate the provisions of the TIA and implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall notify
 
the Trustee of the name and address of any such Agent. If the Company shall fail to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such.
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Paying Agent and custodian for service of demands and notices in connection with the Notes. Any of the Registrar, the Paying Agent or any other agent may resign upon 30 days' notice to the Company.
Section 2.4. . The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that such Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders or the Trustee all assets held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, the Notes (whether such assets have been distributed to it by the Company or any other obligor on the Notes), and the Company and the Paying Agent shall notify the Trustee of any Default by the Company (or any other obligor on the Notes) in making any such payment. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to distribute all assets held by it to the Trustee and account for any assets disbursed and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any payment Default, upon written request to a Paying Agent, require such Paying Agent to distribute all assets held by it to the Trustee and to account for any assets distributed. Upon distribution to the Trustee of all assets that shall have been delivered to the Paying Agent, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for such assets.
Paying Agent to Hold Assets in Trust
Section 2.5. . The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of the Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish or cause the Registrar to furnish to the Trustee five (5) Business Days before each Record Date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list as of such date and in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders, which list may be conclusively relied upon by the Trustee, and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a).
Holder Lists
Section 2.6. . Subject to Sections 2.16 and 2.17, when Notes are presented to the Registrar or a co-Registrar with a request to register the transfer of such Notes or to exchange such Notes for an equal principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations, the Registrar or co-Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transaction are met; , , that the Notes presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee and the Registrar or co-Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing. To permit registration of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Notes at the Registrar's or co-Registrar's request. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax, fee or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges or transfers pursuant to Section 2.10 or 3.1, in which event the Company shall be responsible for the payment of such taxes or charges).
Transfer and Exchange
provided
however
 
The Registrar or co-Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange of any Note (i) during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing and (ii) selected for redemption in whole or in part pursuant to Article III, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
Any Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note shall, by acceptance of such Global Note, agree that transfers of beneficial interests in such Global Notes may be effected only through a book entry system maintained by the Holder of such Global Note (or its agent), and that ownership of a beneficial interest in the Note shall be required to be reflected in a book entry system.
Section 2.7. . If a mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or if the Holder of a Note claims that the Note has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Note if the Trustee's requirements are met. If required by the Trustee or the Company, such Holder must provide an indemnity bond or other indemnity of reasonable tenor, sufficient in the reasonable judgment of the Company and the Trustee, to protect the Company, the Trustee or any Agent from any loss which any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced. Every replacement Note shall constitute an additional obligation of the Company.
Replacement Notes
Section 2.8. . Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes that have been authenticated by the Trustee except those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section as not outstanding. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.9, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or any of its Affiliates holds the Note.
Outstanding Notes
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.7 (other than a mutilated Note surrendered for replacement), it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a protected purchaser. A mutilated Note ceases to be outstanding upon surrender of such Note and replacement thereof pursuant to Section 2.7.
If, on a Redemption Date or the Maturity Date, the Paying Agent holds U.S. Legal Tender or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay all of the principal, premium, if any, and interest due on the Notes payable on that date and is not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders thereof pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, then on and after that date such Notes shall be deemed not to be outstanding and interest on them shall cease to accrue.
Section 2.9. . In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver, consent or notice, Notes owned by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company shall be considered as though they are not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Notes which a Trust Officer of the Trustee has been informed in writing by the Company to be so owned shall be so considered. The Company shall notify the Trustee, in writing, when either it or, to its knowledge, any of its Affiliates repurchases or otherwise acquires Notes, of the aggregate
Treasury Notes
 
principal amount of such Notes so repurchased or otherwise acquired and such other information as the Trustee may reasonably request and the Trustee shall be entitled to rely thereon.
Section 2.10. . Until typewritten Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Notes upon receipt of a written order of the Company in the form of an Officers' Certificate. The Officers' Certificate shall specify the amount of temporary Notes to be authenticated and the date on which the temporary Notes are to be authenticated. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of typewritten Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes and so indicates in the Officers' Certificate. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate, upon receipt of a written order of the Company pursuant to Section 2.2, typewritten Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
Temporary Notes
Section 2.11. . The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee, or at the direction of the Trustee, the Registrar or the Paying Agent, and no one else, shall cancel and, at the written direction of the Company, shall dispose, in its customary manner, of all Notes surrendered for transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation. Subject to Section 2.7, the Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes that it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation. If the Company shall acquire any of the Notes, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the Indebtedness represented by such Notes unless and until the same are surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation pursuant to this Section 2.11.
Cancellation
Section 2.12. . The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal from time to time on demand at the rate of interest borne by the Notes. The Company shall, to the extent lawful, pay interest on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the rate of interest borne by the Notes. All such interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months, and, in the case of a partial month, the actual number of days elapsed.
Defaulted Interest
If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest, plus (to the extent lawful) any interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, which special record date shall be the fifteenth day next preceding the date fixed by the Company for the payment of defaulted interest or the next succeeding Business Day if such date is not a Business Day. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment (a ""), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such defaulted interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such defaulted interest as provided in this Section; , , that in no event shall the Company deposit monies proposed to be paid in respect of defaulted interest later than 11:00 a.m. New York City time on the proposed Default Interest Payment Date. At least 15 days before the subsequent special record date, the Company shall mail (or cause to be mailed) to each Holder, as of a recent date selected by the Company, with a copy to the Trustee at least 20 days prior to
Default Interest Payment Date
provided
however
 
such special record date, a notice that states the subsequent special record date, the Default Interest Payment Date and the amount of defaulted interest, and interest payable on such defaulted interest, if any, to be paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any interest which is paid prior to the expiration of the 30-day period set forth in Section 6.1(1) shall be paid to Holders as of the regular record date for the Interest Payment Date for which interest has not been paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may make payment of any defaulted interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange.
Section 2.13. . In issuing the Notes, the Company may use a "CUSIP" number, and, if so, the Trustee shall use the CUSIP number in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders; , , that no representation is hereby deemed to be made by the Trustee as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number printed in the notice or on the Notes, and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP number.
CUSIP Number
provided
however
In the event that the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate any Notes issued under this Indenture subsequent to the Issue Date pursuant to Section 2.2, the Company shall use its reasonable efforts to obtain the same "CUSIP" number for such Notes as is printed on the Notes outstanding at such time and provide written notice to the Trustee to such effect; , , that if any series of Notes issued under this Indenture subsequent to the Issue Date is determined, pursuant to an Opinion of Counsel of the Company in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, to be a different class of security than the Notes outstanding at such time for federal income tax or securities laws purposes, the Company shall use its reasonable efforts to obtain a "CUSIP" number for such Notes that is different than the "CUSIP" number printed on the Notes then outstanding and cause such opinion to be delivered to the Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision herein to the contrary, all Notes issued under this Indenture shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class and no series of Notes will have the right to vote or consent as a separate class on any matter.
provided
however
Section 2.14. . Prior to 11:00 a.m. New York City time on each Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date or Redemption Date, the Company shall have deposited with the Paying Agent in immediately available funds money sufficient to make cash payments, if any, due on such Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as the case may be, in a timely manner which permits the Paying Agent to remit payment to the Holders on such Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as the case may be.
Deposit of Monies
 
Section 2.15. . Each Global Note and Physical Note that constitutes a Restricted Security shall bear the Private Placement Legend on the face thereof until after the second anniversary of the later of the Issue Date (or in the case of any Initial Notes issued after the Issue Date, two years after the date of initial issuance thereof) and the last date on which the Company or any Affiliate of the Company was the owner of such Note (or any predecessor security) (or such shorter period of time as permitted by Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or any successor provision thereunder) (or such longer period of time as may be required under the Securities Act or applicable state securities laws in the opinion of counsel for the Company, unless otherwise agreed by the Company and the Holder thereof).
Restrictive Legends
Each Global Note shall also bear the legend as set forth in Exhibit C.
Section 2.16. .
Book-Entry Provisions for Global Security
(a) The Global Notes initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of such Depositary, (ii) be delivered to the Trustee as custodian for such Depositary and (iii) bear the legend as set forth in Exhibit C.
(b) Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under the Global Notes, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any Agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any Agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Note.
Agent Members
(c) Transfers of a Global Note shall be limited to transfers in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in a Global Note may be transferred or exchanged for Physical Notes in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary and the provisions of Section 2.17. In addition, Physical Notes shall be transferred to all beneficial owners in exchange for their beneficial interests in a Global Note if (i) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Notes and a successor depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice or (ii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Registrar has received a written request from the Depositary to issue Physical Notes.
(d) In connection with any transfer or exchange of a portion of the beneficial interest in a Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 2.16(c), the Registrar shall (if one or more Physical Notes are to be issued) reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of such Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to be transferred, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Physical Notes of like tenor and amount.
(e) In connection with the transfer of an entire Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 2.16(c), such Global Note shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for
 
cancellation, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the Global Note, an equal aggregate principal amount of Physical Notes of authorized denominations.
(f) Any Physical Note constituting a Restricted Security delivered in exchange for an interest in a Global Note pursuant to Section 2.16(c) shall, except as otherwise provided by Section 2.17(a)(i)(x) and (c), bear the Private Placement Legend.
(g) The Holder of a Global Note may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes.
Section 2.17. .
Special Transfer Provisions
(a) . The following provisions shall apply with respect to the registration of any proposed transfer of a Note constituting a Restricted Security to any Institutional Accredited Investor which is not a QIB or to any Non-U.S. Person:
Transfers to Non-QIB Institutional Accredited Investors and Non-U.S. Persons
(i) the Registrar shall register the transfer of any Note constituting a Restricted Security, whether or not such Note bears the Private Placement Legend, if (x) the requested transfer is after the second anniversary of the Issue Date (, , that neither the Company nor any Affiliate of the Company has held any beneficial interest in such Note, or portion thereof, or predecessor security at any time on or prior to the second anniversary of the Issue Date (or in the case of any Initial Notes issued after the Issue Date, two years after the date of initial issuance thereof)) or (y) (1) in the case of a transfer to an Institutional Accredited Investor which is not a QIB (excluding Non-U.S. Persons), the proposed transferee has delivered to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto or (2) in the case of a transfer to a Non-U.S. Person, the proposed transferor has delivered to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto; and
provided
however
(ii) if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member and the Notes to be transferred consist of Physical Notes which after transfer are to be evidenced by an interest in the IAI Global Note or Regulation S Global Note, as the case may be, upon receipt by the Registrar of (x) written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures and (y) the appropriate certificate, if any, required by clause (y) of paragraph (i) above, the Registrar shall register the transfer and reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of the IAI Global Note or Regulation S Global Note, as the case may be, in an amount equal to the principal amount of Physical Notes to be transferred, and the Trustee shall cancel the Physical Notes so transferred; and
(iii) if the proposed transferor is an Agent Member seeking to transfer an interest in a Global Note, upon receipt by the Registrar of (x) written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures and (y) the appropriate
 
certificate, if any, required by clause (y) of paragraph (i) above, the Registrar shall register the transfer and reflect on its books and records the date and (A) a decrease in the principal amount of the Global Note from which such interests are to be transferred in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be transferred and (B) an increase in the principal amount of the IAI Global Note or the Regulation S Global Note, as the case may be, to which the interests are to be transferred in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be transferred.
(b) . The following provisions shall apply with respect to the registration of any proposed transfer of a Note constituting a Restricted Security to a QIB (excluding transfers to Non-U.S. Persons):
Transfers to QIBS
(i) the Registrar shall register the transfer of any Restricted Security if such transfer is being made by a proposed transferor who has checked the box provided for on the form of Note stating, or has otherwise advised the Company and the Registrar in writing, that the sale has been made in compliance with the provisions of Rule 144A to a transferee who has signed the certification provided for on the form of Note stating, or has otherwise advised the Company and the Registrar in writing, that it is purchasing the Note for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a QIB within the meaning of Rule 144A, and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as it has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon its foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A; and
(ii) if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member, and the Notes to be transferred consist of Physical Notes which after transfer are to be evidenced by an interest in a Global Note, upon receipt by the Registrar of written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of such Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Physical Notes to be transferred, and the Trustee shall cancel the Physical Notes so transferred; and
(iii) if the proposed transferor is an Agent Member seeking to transfer an interest in the IAI Global Note or the Regulation S Global Note, upon receipt by the Registrar of written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall register the transfer and reflect on its books and records the date and (A) a decrease in the principal amount of the IAI Global Note or the Regulation S Global Note, as the case may be, in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be transferred and (B) an increase in the principal amount of the Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be transferred.
(c) . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, a Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
Restrictions on Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
 
(d) . Upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes not bearing the Private Placement Legend, the Registrar shall deliver Notes that do not bear the Private Placement Legend. Upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes bearing the Private Placement Legend, the Registrar shall deliver only Notes that bear the Private Placement Legend unless (i) the requested transfer is after the second anniversary of the Issue Date (, , that neither the Company nor any Affiliate of the Company has held any beneficial interest in such Note, or portion thereof, or any predecessor security at any time prior to or on the second anniversary of the Issue Date (or, in the case of any Initial Notes issued after the Issue Date, two years after the date of initial issuance thereof), or (ii) there is delivered to the Registrar an Opinion of Counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee to the effect that neither such legend nor the related restrictions on transfer are required in order to maintain compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act.
Private Placement Legend
provided
however
(e) . By its acceptance of any Note bearing the Private Placement Legend, each Holder of such a Note acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such Note set forth in this Indenture and in the Private Placement Legend and agrees that it will transfer such Note only as provided in this Indenture.
General
The Registrar shall retain copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to Section 2.16 or this Section 2.17. The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time during the Registrar's normal business hours upon the giving of reasonable written notice to the Registrar.
(f) . Any certificate (i) evidencing a Note that has been transferred to an Affiliate of the Company within two years after the Issue Date (or in the case of any Initial Notes issued after the Issue Date, two years after the date of initial issuance thereof), as evidenced by a notation on the Assignment Form for such transfer or in the representation letter delivered in respect thereof or (ii) evidencing a Note that has been acquired from an Affiliate of the Company (other than by an Affiliate of the Company) in a transaction or a chain of transactions not involving any public offering, shall, until two years after the last date on which the Company or any Affiliate of the Company was an owner of such Note, in each case, bear the Private Placement Legend, unless otherwise agreed by the Company (with written notice thereof to the Trustee).
Transfer of Notes Held by Affiliates
(g) . In connection with the purchase or sale of any Note or any beneficial interest therein by the Company or any Affiliate thereof (other than a sale to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 19, 2006, by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers), the Company shall file with the Trustee and Registrar a written notice identifying the transaction as such for the purposes hereof.
Notice of Affiliate Purchases
 
Section 2.18. . Under certain circumstances, the Company shall be obligated to pay Additional Interest to the Holders, all as set forth in Section 4 of the Registration Rights Agreement. The terms thereof are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Additional Interest Under Registration Rights Agreement
Section 3.1. .
Optional Redemption by the Company
(a) . The Company, at its option, may redeem the Notes in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Notes. If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Notes, it shall notify the Trustee in writing of the Redemption Date, the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed and the Redemption Price that would be in effect if such Notes were being redeemed on the date of the notice. The Company shall give the notice to the Trustee provided for in this Section 3.1(a) at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee).
Right to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
(b) . At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed a notice of redemption by first-class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at such Holder's address as it appears on the Note register.
Notice of Redemption
The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed and shall state:
(i) the Redemption Date;
(ii) the Redemption Price that would be in effect if such Notes were being redeemed on the date of the notice;
(iii) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
(iv) that Notes called for redemption must be presented and surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price and any accrued interest;
(v) that interest on Notes called for redemption shall cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date and, unless the Company defaults in making the redemption payment, the only remaining right of the Holder shall be to receive payment of the Redemption Price upon presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent of the Notes;
(vi) if fewer than all the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the certificate number (if any) and principal amounts of the particular Notes to be redeemed; and
(vii) the CUSIP number or numbers for the Notes called for redemption.
 
At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense. In such event, the Company will provide the Trustee with the information required by clauses (i) through (iii) and (vi).
(c) . Once notice of redemption is mailed, Notes called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price stated in the notice. Upon presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent, Notes called for redemption shall be paid at the Redemption Price, together with any accrued interest.
Effect of Notice of Redemption
(d) . There shall be no sinking fund provided for the Notes.
Sinking Fund
Section 4.1. . The Company will promptly pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each of the Notes at the places and time and in the manner provided in the Notes and this Indenture. An installment of principal, premium or interest will be considered paid on the date it is due if the Trustee or Paying Agent holds on that date in accordance with this Indenture money designated for and sufficient to pay the installment then due.
Payment of Notes
The Company will pay or cause to be paid interest on overdue principal at the rate specified in the Notes; it will also pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the same rate, to the extent lawful.
Section 4.2. . The Company will file with the Trustee within 15 days after filing with the SEC, copies of its annual reports and of the information, documents, and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company also will comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a).
Reporting
Section 4.3. . Subject to Article V, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , that the Company will not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors determines that the preservation of the right or franchise is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that its loss will not be disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
Corporate Existence
provided, however
Section 4.4. . The Company will deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company an Officers' Certificate stating that in the course of the performance by the signers of their duties as Officers of the Company they would normally have knowledge of any Default or Event of Default by the Company and whether or not the signers know of any Default or Event of Default that occurred during the fiscal year. If they do, the certificate will describe the default or Event of Default, its status and
Compliance Certificate
 
what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. The Company also will comply with TIA Section 314(a)(4). For the purposes of this provision of the Indenture, compliance is determined without regard to any grace period or requirement of notice under the Indenture.
Section 4.5. . Upon request of the Trustee, the Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purpose of this Indenture.
Further Instruments and Acts
Section 4.6. . The Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, assume, incur or suffer to exist any Lien, upon any of its properties or assets, whether owned on the Issue Date or thereafter acquired, unless (1) if such Lien secures Indebtedness which is pari passu with the Notes, then the Notes are secured on an equal and ratable basis with the obligation so secured until such time as such obligation is no longer secured by a Lien, (2) if such Lien secures Indebtedness which is subordinated to the Notes, then the Notes are secured and the Lien securing such Indebtedness is subordinated to the Lien granted to the holders of the Notes to the same extent as such Indebtedness is subordinated to the Notes or (3) such Lien is a Permitted Lien (as defined below).
Limitations on Liens
The following Liens constitute "Permitted Liens":
(a) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with or otherwise acquired by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, provided that such Liens were in existence prior to, and were not created in contemplation of, such merger, consolidation or acquisitions and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary;
(b) Liens on property existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; provided that such Liens were in existence prior to, and were not created in contemplation of, such acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than the property acquired;
(c) Liens imposed by law such as carriers', warehouseman's or mechanics' Liens, and other Liens to secure the performance of statutory obligations, surety or appeal bonds, performance bonds or other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(d) Liens incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue, water, sewage or any similar bonds;
(e) Liens securing Indebtedness representing, or incurred to finance, the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving any assets, provided that the principal amount of such Indebtedness does not exceed 100% of such cost, including construction charges;
(f) Liens securing Indebtedness (A) between a Restricted Subsidiary and the Company, or (B) between Restricted Subsidiaries;
 
(g) Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business to secure performance of obligations with respect to statutory or regulatory requirements, performance or return-of-money bonds, surety bonds or other obligations of a like nature, in each case which are not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money, the obtaining of advances or credit or the payment of the deferred purchase price of property and which do not in the aggregate impair in any material respect the use of property in the operation of the Company's business taken as a whole;
(h) pledges or deposits under workmen's compensation laws, unemployment insurance laws or similar legislation, or good faith deposits in connection with bids, tenders, contracts (other than for the payment of indebtedness) or leases to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is a party, or deposits to secure public or statutory obligations of the Company or of any Restricted Subsidiary or deposits for the payment of rent, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(i) Liens granted to any bank or other institution on the payments to be made to such institution by the Company or any Subsidiary pursuant to any interest rate swap or similar agreement or foreign currency hedge, exchange or similar agreement designed to provide protection against fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, respectively, provided that such agreements are entered into in, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of business;
(j) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's Liens, rights of set off or similar rights and remedies;
(k) Liens arising from the Uniform Commercial Code financing statements regarding leases;
(l) Liens securing indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, construction, improvement, development or expansion of a property which is given within 180 days of the acquisition, construction, improvement, development or expansion of such property and which is limited to such property;
(m) Liens incurred in connection with Non-Recourse Indebtedness;
(n) Liens existing on the Issue Date;
(o) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or claims that are not yet delinquent or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and diligently concluded; provided that any reserve or other appropriate provision as shall be required in conformity with GAAP shall have been made therefor;
(p) Liens securing refinancing Indebtedness; provided that any such Lien does not extend to or cover any property or assets other than the property or assets securing Indebtedness so refunded, refinanced or extended;
(q) easements, rights-of-way and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business and encumbrances consisting of zoning restrictions, licenses, restrictions on the use of property or minor imperfections in title thereto which, in the aggregate, are not
 
material in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the Company's properties subject thereto; and
(r) any extensions, substitutions, modifications, replacements or renewals of the Permitted Liens described above.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may, and may permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, assume, incur or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its properties or assets without equally and ratably securing the Notes if the aggregate amount of all Indebtedness then outstanding secured by such Lien and all similar Liens, together with the aggregate net sale proceeds from all Sale-Leaseback Transactions which are not Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions, does not exceed 20% of the total consolidated stockholders' equity of the Company as shown on the most recent consolidated balance sheet that is contained or incorporated in the latest annual report on Form 10-K (or equivalent report) or quarterly report on Form 10-Q (or equivalent report) filed with the SEC, and is as of a date not more than 181 days prior to the date of determination, in the case of the consolidated balance sheet contained or incorporated in an annual report on Form 10-K, or 135 days prior to the date of determination, in the case of the consolidated balance sheet contained in the quarterly report on Form 10-Q; provided that Indebtedness secured by Permitted Liens shall not be included in the amount of such secured Indebtedness.
Section 4.7. . The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, after the date hereof, enter into any Sale-Leaseback Transaction other than Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions (as defined below). The following Sale-Leaseback Transactions constitute "Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions":
Sale-Leaseback Transactions
(a) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction involving the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of model homes in the Company's (including its Subsidiaries') communities;
(b) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction relating to a property entered into within 180 days after the later of the date of acquisition of such property by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or the date of the completion of construction or commencement of full operations on such property, whichever is later;
(c) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction where the Company, within 365 days after such Sale-Leaseback Transaction, applies or causes to be applied to the retirement of any Funded Debt of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary (other than Funded Debt which by its terms or the terms of the instrument by which it was issued is subordinate in right of payment to the Notes) proceeds of the sale of such property, but only to the extent of the amount of proceeds so applied;
(d) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction where the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary would, on the effective date of such sale or transfer, be entitled, pursuant to this Indenture, to issue, assume or guarantee Indebtedness secured by a Lien upon the relevant property, at least equal in amount to the then present value (discounted at the actual rate of interest of the
 
Sale-Leaseback Transaction) of the obligation for the net rental payments in respect of such Sale-Leaseback Transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes;
(e) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction between the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary or among Restricted Subsidiaries, provided that the lessor shall be the Company or a wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiary; and
(f) a Sale-Leaseback Transaction which has a lease of no more than three years in length.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may, and may permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, effect any Sale-Leaseback Transaction involving any real or tangible personal property which is not a Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transaction, provided that the aggregate net sales proceeds from all Sale-Leaseback Transactions which are not Permitted Sale-Leaseback Transactions, together with all Indebtedness secured by Liens other than Permitted Liens, does not exceed 20% of the total consolidated stockholders' equity of the Company as shown on the most recent consolidated balance sheet that is contained or incorporated in the latest annual report on Form 10-K (or equivalent report) or quarterly report on Form 10-Q (or equivalent report) filed with the SEC, and is as of a date not more than 181 days prior to the date of determination, in the case of the consolidated balance sheet contained or incorporated in an annual report on Form 10-K, or 135 days prior to the date of determination, in the case of the consolidated balance sheet contained in the quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Section 4.8. . The Company shall cause any Subsidiary formed or acquired after the Issue Date, other than its finance company Subsidiaries and any foreign Subsidiaries, that guarantees any Indebtedness of the Company or any other Subsidiary, other than guarantees by Subsidiaries of U.S. Home Corporation solely of U.S. Home Corporation's obligations as a guarantor under the Senior Credit Facility, to become a Guarantor by causing, as promptly as practicable, but in any event not later than the date on which such Subsidiary becomes a guarantor of any other Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary, such Subsidiary to execute and deliver to the Trustee a Guarantee in substantially the form of Exhibit F hereto and the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Furnishing Guarantees
Section 5.1. . The Company will not consolidate with or merge into any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms
(1) the corporation formed by the consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety will be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, a State of the
 
United States of America or the District of Columbia and expressly assumes, by one or more supplemental indentures, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Notes and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture to be performed or observed by the Company;
(2) immediately after giving effect to the transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, will have occurred and be continuing; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that the consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and the supplemental indenture (or the supplemental indentures together) comply with this Article and that all the conditions precedent relating to the transaction set forth in this Section have been fulfilled.
Section 5.2. . Upon any event described in Section 5.1, the successor corporation will succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture, and, except in connection with a lease transaction, the predecessor corporation will be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture.
Successor Corporation Substituted
Section 6.1. .
Events of Default
An "Event of Default" occurs if:
(1) there is a default by the Company in the payment when due of interest on the Notes, which default continues for a period of 30 days;
(2) there is a default by the Company in the payment when due of the principal or Redemption Price due with respect to the Notes;
(3) there is a default by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to its obligation to pay Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than any Non-Recourse Indebtedness), which default shall have resulted in the acceleration of, or be a failure to pay at final maturity, Indebtedness aggregating more than $50 million;
(4) there is a failure to perform any other covenant or warranty of the Company herein, which continues for 30 days after written notice;
(5) final judgments or orders are rendered against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary which require the payment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of an amount (to the extent not covered by insurance) in excess of $50 million
 
and such judgments or orders remain unstayed or unsatisfied for more than 60 days and are not being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
(6) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, pursuant to any Bankruptcy Law applicable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary: (A) commences a voluntary case; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case against it; (C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
(7) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any applicable Bankruptcy Law: (A) for relief in an involuntary case against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (B) appointing a Custodian of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its respective property; or (C) ordering the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days.
Each of the occurrences described in clauses (1) through (7) will constitute an Event of Default whatever the reason for the occurrence and whether it is voluntary or involuntary or is effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body.
The term "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11 of the United States Code or any similar United States Federal or State law for the relief of debtors. The term "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
A Default under clause (4) of this Section is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes with regard to which the Company has failed to comply with a covenant or agreement notify the Company and the Trustee, of the Default and the Company does not cure the Default within 30 days after the giving of the notice. The notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that the notice is a "Notice of Default."
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 20 days after it occurs, written notice in the form of an Officers' Certificate of any event of which the Company is aware which with the giving of notice and the lapse of time would become an Event of Default under clause (4), its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect to it.
Section 6.2. . If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, unless the principal of the Notes has already become due and payable, the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of not less than 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the outstanding principal of the Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration on all of the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such outstanding principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(6) or (7) of this Indenture occurs and is continuing, the outstanding principal amount of the Notes shall
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
 
automatically become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes, by notice to the Company and the Trustee (and without notice to any other Holder), may rescind any acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the outstanding principal amount of any of the Notes that has become due solely as a result of acceleration and if all amounts due to the Trustee under Section 7.7 of this Indenture have been paid. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such waiver or rescission and annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Company, the Holders of Notes, and the Trustee shall be restored respectively to their several positions and rights hereunder and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company, the Holders of Notes, and the Trustee shall continue as though no such proceeding had been taken.
The Trustee shall within 90 days after a Trust Officer has knowledge of the occurrence of a Default or any Event of Default, mail to all Holders, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear upon the Note register, notice of all Defaults or Events of Default known to a Trust Officer, unless such Default or Event of Default is cured or waived before the giving of such notice and provided that, except in the case of default in the payment of the principal, interest or Redemption Price, as the case may be, on any of the Notes, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as a trust committee of directors and/or officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders.
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceedings for any remedy available to the Trustee, subject to the limitations specified herein.
Section 6.3. . If an Event of Default as to the Notes occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision under this Indenture.
Other Remedies
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Securityholder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default will not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
Section 6.4. . The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes, by notice to the Trustee may consent to the waiver of any past Default with regard to the Notes and
Waiver of Existing Defaults
 
its consequences except (i) a default in the payment of interest or premium, if any, on, or the principal of, Notes, or (ii) a default in respect of a covenant or a provision that under Section 9.2 cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holders of all Notes then outstanding. The defaults described in clauses (i) and (ii) in the previous sentence may be waived with the consent of the Holders of all Notes then outstanding. When a Default or Event of Default is waived, it is deemed cured and not continuing, but no waiver will extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right.
Section 6.5. . The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee with regard to the Notes or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with regard to the Notes. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or, subject to Section 7.1, that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders or that would involve the Trustee in personal liability provided, however, that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with such direction. Prior to taking any action as a result of a direction given under this Section, the Trustee will be entitled to indemnification satisfactory to it in its sole discretion against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking that action.
Control by Majority
Section 6.6. . The Company covenants that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default described in Section 6.1(1) or (2), then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes, the whole amount that will then have become due and payable on all such Notes for principal, premium, if any, and interest, with interest on the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) on the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Notes; and, in addition, such further amount as will be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and any expenses or liabilities incurred by the Trustee hereunder other than through its negligence or bad faith. Until such demand by the Trustee, the Company may pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Notes to the registered Holders, whether or not the Notes are overdue.
Payments of Notes on Default; Suit Therefor
Section 6.7. . A Holder may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture unless:
Limitation on Suits
(1) the Holder gives to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default is continuing;
(2) the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
(3) such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
 
(4) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer of security or indemnity, and the Event of Default has not been waived; and
(5) the Trustee has received no contrary direction from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding during such 60-day period.
A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder.
Section 6.8. . If an Event of Default in payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, specified in clause (1) or (2) of Section 6.1 occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal, premium, if any, and interest remaining unpaid (together with interest on that unpaid interest to the extent lawful) and the amounts provided for in Section 7.7.
Collection Suit by Trustee
Section 6.9. . The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company, its creditors or its property and, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, may vote on behalf of the Holders in any election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other person performing similar functions, and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make payments to the Trustee and, if the Trustee consents to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.7.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
Section 6.10. . If a judicial proceeding by the Trustee or a Holder to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture is dismissed or decided favorably to the Company, except as otherwise provided in the judicial proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders will be restored to the positions they would have been in if the judicial proceeding had not been instituted.
Restoration of Positions
Section 6.11. . If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article VI with respect to the Notes, it will pay out the money or property in the following order:
Priorities
FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.7;
SECOND: to the Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, premium and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal, premium and interest, respectively; and
THIRD: to the Company.
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to the Holders pursuant to this Section. At least 15 days before the record date, the Company will mail
 
to each Holder and the Trustee a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
Section 6.12. . In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.12 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.7, or a suit by Holders of in aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note held by that Holder on or after the due date provided in the Note.
Undertaking for Costs
Section 6.13. . The Company agrees (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim, and will resist any and all efforts to be compelled to take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law, wherever enacted, now or at any subsequent time in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal of, premium, if any, and/or interest on any of the Notes as contemplated in this Indenture, or which may affect the covenants or performance of this Indenture, and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and agrees that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power granted to the Trustee in this Indenture, but (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) will suffer and permit the execution of any such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Stay, Extension or Usury Laws
Section 6.14. . No stockholder, officer, director or incorporator, as such, past, present or future, of the Company, or any of its successor corporations, will have any personal liability in respect of the Company's obligations under this Indenture or any Notes by reason of his or its status as such stockholder, officer, director or incorporator; provided, however, that nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes will prevent recourse to and enforcement of the liability of any stockholder or subscriber to Capital Stock in respect of shares of Capital Stock which have not been fully paid up.
Liability of Stockholders, Officers, Directors and Incorporators
Section 7.1. .
Duties of Trustee
(a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee will exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
 
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
(i) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no implied covenants or obligations will be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(ii) the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed in them, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture in the absence of bad faith on the Trustee's part; provided, however, that the Trustee will examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they substantially conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(1) this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.1;
(2) the Trustee will not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(3) the Trustee will not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.5; and
(4) the Trustee will not be required to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties under this Indenture or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it has reasonable grounds to believe repayment of the funds or adequate indemnity against the risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
(d) Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee is subject to the provisions of this Section 7.1 and to the provisions of the TIA.
(e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
(f) The Trustee will not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree with the Company. Money and Government Obligations held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds or items except to the extent required by law.
 
Section 7.2. .
Rights of Trustee
(a) The Trustee may rely on any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel which conforms to Section 11.5. The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such an Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel.
(c) The Trustee may act through agents and will not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
(d) The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers, except conduct which constitutes willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.
(e) The Trustee may consult with counsel, and the Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits in reliance on, and in accordance with, written advice of counsel.
(f) The Trustee will not be required to investigate any facts or matters stated in any document, but if it decides to investigate any matters or facts, the Trustee or its agents or attorneys will be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company.
Section 7.3. . The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or any of its affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, co-registrar or co-paying agent may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
Individual Rights of Trustee
Section 7.4. . The Trustee (i) is not responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture, (ii) will not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes, and (iii) will not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture, other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication, or in any document used in the sale of the Notes, other than statements, if any, provided in writing by the Trustee for use in such a document.
Trustee's Disclaimer
Section 7.5. . The Trustee will give to the Holders notice of any Default with regard to the Notes known to the Trustee, within 90 days after it occurs; provided, that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on any Note, the Trustee will be protected in withholding notice of the Default if and so long as a committee of its Trust Officers in good faith determines that the withholding of the notice is in the interests of the Holders.
Notice of Defaults
Section 7.6. . Within 60 days after each November 30 beginning with the November 30 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee will mail to each Holder, at the name and address which appears on the registration books of the Company, and to each Holder who has, within the two years preceding the mailing, filed that person's name and address with the Trustee for that purpose and each Holder whose name and address have been
Reports by Trustee
 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.5, a brief report dated as of that November 30 which complies with TIA Section 313(a). The Trustee also will comply with TIA Section 313(b).
A copy of each report will at the time of its mailing to Holders be filed with each stock exchange on which the Notes are listed and also with the SEC. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting of the Notes.
Section 7.7. . The Company will pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for its services. The Trustee's compensation will not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company will reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, in addition to the compensation for its services. Those expenses will include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee's agents, counsel, accountants and experts. The Company will indemnify the Trustee against any and all loss, liability or expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by it in connection with the administration of the trust created by this Indenture and the performance of its duties under this Indenture. The Trustee will notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company will not relieve the Company of its obligations under this Section. The Company will defend the claim and the Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company will pay the fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss, expense or liability incurred by the Trustee to the extent it is due to the Trustee's own willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.
Compensation and Indemnity
To secure the Company's obligation to make payments to the Trustee under this Section 7.7, the Trustee will have a lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, other than money or property held in trust to pay principal or interest on the Notes. Those obligations of the Company will survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in clause (6) or (7) of Section 6.1 occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services of the Trustee are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
For purposes of this Section 7.7, "Trustee" will include any predecessor Trustee, but the willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith of any Trustee will not affect the rights of any other Trustee under this Section 7.7.
Section 7.8. . The Trustee may resign at any time by so notifying the Company. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company and may appoint a successor Trustee. The Company may remove the Trustee if:
Replacement of Trustee
(1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
 
(2) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
(3) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
(4) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company will promptly appoint a successor Trustee. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
No removal or appointment of a Trustee will be valid if that removal or appointment would conflict with any law applicable to the Company.
A successor Trustee will deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately after that, the retiring Trustee will, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.7, transfer all property held by it as a Trustee to the successor Trustee, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee will become effective, and the successor Trustee will have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. A successor Trustee will mail notice of its succession to each Holder.
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section, the Company's obligations under Section 7.7 will continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
Section 7.9. . If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust assets to, another Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person will, without any further act, be the successor Trustee.
Successor Trustee by Merger, etc
If at the time a successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to the Trustee succeeds to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Notes have been authenticated but not delivered, the successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of the predecessor Trustee, and deliver the Notes which were authenticated by the predecessor Trustee; and if at that time any of the Notes have not been authenticated, the successor to the Trustee may authenticate those Notes either in the name of the predecessor or in its own name as the
 
successor to the Trustee; and in either case the certificates of authentication will have the full force provided in this Indenture for certificates of authentication.
Section 7.10. . The Trustee will at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Section 310(a). The Trustee will at all times have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recently published annual report of condition, which will be deemed for this paragraph to be its combined capital and surplus. The Trustee will comply with TIA Section 310(b), including the optional provision permitted by the second sentence of TIA Section 310(b)(9).
Eligibility; Disqualification
Section 7.11. . The Trustee will comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed will be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated.
Preferential Collection of Claims
Section 8.1. . When (1) the Company shall deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Notes theretofore authenticated (other than any Notes which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) and not theretofore canceled, or (2) all the Notes not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year, whether at stated maturity or upon redemption and the Company shall deposit with the Trustee, in trust, monies and/or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay at the Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as applicable, all sums which will become due with regard to all Notes theretofore authenticated (other than any Notes which shall have been mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) and not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including the principal amount and interest accrued to the Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as applicable, and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect with respect to the Notes (except as to (i) remaining rights of registration of transfer, substitution and exchange of Notes, (ii) rights hereunder of Holders to receive payments of the principal amount, including interest due with respect to the Notes and the other rights, duties and obligations of Holders, as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the amounts, if any, so deposited with the Trustee and (iii) the rights, obligations and immunities of the Trustee under this Indenture with respect to the Notes), and the Trustee, on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as required by Section 8.3 and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to the Notes; the Company, however, hereby agrees to reimburse the Trustee for any costs or expenses thereafter reasonably and properly incurred by the Trustee, and to compensate the Trustee for any services thereafter reasonably and properly rendered by the Trustee, in connection with this Indenture or the Notes.
Termination of the Company's Obligations
 
Section 8.2. . Subject to Section 8.4, the Trustee will hold in trust money or U.S. Government Obligations deposited with it pursuant to Section 8.1. It will apply the deposited money and the money from the U.S. Government Obligations through the Paying Agent and in accordance with this Indenture to the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes with regard to which the money or U.S. Government Obligations were deposited.
Application of Trust Money
Section 8.3. . Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under Section 8.1, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Officers' Certificate; Opinion of Counsel
Each such Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant pursuant to the previous paragraph shall comply with the provisions of Section 11.5.
Section 8.4. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent will promptly pay to the Company upon request any excess money or securities held by them at any time. The Trustee and the Paying Agent will pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal, premium or interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After such payment, all liability of the Trustee and the Paying Agent with respect to that money will cease.
Repayment to the Company
Section 8.5. . If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 8.2 by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture shall be revived and reinstated with respect to the Notes as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.1 until such time as the Trustee or the Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.2, provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal amount or Redemption Price of or interest on any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
Section 9.1. . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes without notice to or consent of any Holder:
Without Consent of Holders
(1) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
(2) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder;
 
(3) to comply with Article 5;
(4) to add to the covenants of the Company further covenants, restrictions or conditions that the Board of Directors and the Trustee shall consider to be for the benefit of the Holders of Notes, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions or conditions a Default or an Event of Default permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in this Indenture;
(5) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes; or
(6) to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary for this Indenture to comply with the TIA, or under any similar federal statute hereafter enacted.
After an amendment under this Section becomes effective, the Company will mail to the Holders a notice briefly describing the amendment. The failure to give such notice to all Holders, or any defect in a notice, will not impair or affect the validity of an amendment under this Section.
Section 9.2. . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes without notice to any Holder but with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may waive compliance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes without notice to any Holder. However, without the consent of the Holder so affected, no amendment, supplement or waiver, including a waiver pursuant to Section 6.4, may:
With Consent of Holders
(1) extend the fixed maturity of any Note or any installment of interest thereon, reduce the principal amount, interest rate, Redemption Price, or amount due upon acceleration, impair the right of a Holder to institute suit for the payment thereof, change the currency in which the Notes are payable;
(2) reduce the percentage of Notes required to consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
(3) release any Guarantor except as provided in Article X hereof; or
(4) make any change in Section 6.4 or 6.8 or the second sentence of this Section.
It will not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but it will be sufficient if the consent approves the substance of the amendment, supplement or waiver.
Section 9.3. . Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes will comply with the TIA as then in effect.
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
 
Section 9.4. . A consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver by a Holder will bind the Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent as to the Holder's Note or portion of a Note. For a revocation to be effective, the Trustee must receive notice of the revocation before the date the amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective. After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms, it will bind every Holder of every Note.
Revocation and Effect of Consents
Section 9.5. . If an amendment, supplement or waiver changes the terms of the Notes, the Trustee may require the Holder of a Note to deliver the Holder's Note to the Trustee, who will place an appropriate notation about the amendment, supplement or waiver on the Note and will return it to the Holder. Alternatively, the Company may, in exchange for the Note, issue, and the Trustee will authenticate, a new Note that reflects the amendment, supplement or waiver.
Notation on or Exchange of Notes
Section 9.6. . The Trustee will sign any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to Article II or this Article IX if the amendment, supplement or waiver does not adversely affect the rights, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does adversely affect those rights, liabilities or immunities, the Trustee may but need not sign it. The Company may not sign an amendment or supplement until the amendment or supplement is approved by an appropriate Board Resolution.
Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc
Section 10.1. . Each Guarantor, if any, hereby jointly and severally, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees (such guarantee to be referred to herein as a "Guarantee") to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, that: (a) all amounts due with respect to the Notes shall be duly and punctually paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal and (to the extent permitted by law) interest, if any, on the Notes and all other obligations of the Company or the Guarantors to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder and all other obligations shall be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same shall be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed, or failing performance of any other obligation of the Company to the Holders under this Indenture or under the Notes, for whatever reason, each Guarantor shall be obligated to pay, or to perform or cause the performance of, the same immediately. An Event of Default under this Indenture or the Notes shall constitute an event of default under each Guarantee, and shall entitle the Holders of Notes to accelerate the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder in the same manner and to the same extent as the obligations of the Company.
Unconditional Guarantee
 
Each of the Guarantors hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, any release of any other Guarantor, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same, whether or not a Guarantee is affixed to any particular Note, or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor. Each of the Guarantors hereby waives the benefit of diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that its Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes, this Indenture and each Guarantee. Each Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between it, on the one hand, and the Holders of Notes and the Trustee, on the other hand, (a) subject to this Article X, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article VI hereof for the purposes of each Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (b) in the event of any acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article VI hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of each Guarantee.
No stockholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator, past, present or future, of any Guarantor, as such, shall have any personal liability under any Guarantee by reason of his, her or its status as such stockholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator.
Each Guarantor that makes a payment or distribution under its Guarantee shall be entitled to a contribution from each other Guarantor in an amount pro rata, based on the net assets of each Guarantor, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Section 10.2. . The obligations of each Guarantor under its Guarantee will be limited to the maximum amount which, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under its Guarantee or pursuant to its contribution obligations under this Indenture, will result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under federal or state law.
Limitations on Guarantees; Release or Suspension of Particular Guarantors' Obligations
The Guarantors shall include (i) each of the Guarantors named on the signature pages of this Indenture and (ii) each of the Company's Subsidiaries that in the future executes a Guarantee in substantially the form of Exhibit F hereto in which such Subsidiary agrees to be bound by the terms hereof as a Guarantor.
If any Guarantor is released from its guarantee of the outstanding Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, such Guarantor shall be automatically released from its obligations as Guarantor, and from and after such date, such Guarantor shall cease to constitute a Guarantor.
 
The obligations of a Guarantor will be automatically suspended, and such Guarantor shall not constitute a Guarantor and shall not have any obligations with regard to the Notes, during any period when the principal amount of the Company's obligations and any Restricted Subsidiary's obligations as a guarantor of the Company's obligations, in each case other than the Notes and other Indebtedness containing provisions similar to this, that the Guarantor is guaranteeing total less than $75 million.
Section 10.3. . To further evidence the Guarantee set forth in Section 10.1, each Guarantor hereby agrees to execute and deliver to the Trustee a Guarantee in substantially the form of Exhibit F hereto. Such Guarantee shall be executed on behalf of each Guarantor by either manual or facsimile signature of an officer or agent of each Guarantor, each of whom, in each case, shall have been duly authorized to so execute by all requisite corporate action. The validity and enforceability of any Guarantee shall not be affected by the fact that it is not affixed to any Note or Notes.
Execution and Delivery of Guarantee
If an officer or agent of a Guarantor whose signature is on this Indenture or a Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates a Note to which such Guarantee relates or at any time thereafter, such Guarantor's Guarantee of such Note shall be valid nevertheless.
The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of any Guarantee set forth in this Indenture on behalf of each Guarantor.
Section 10.4. . If no Default exists or would exist under this Indenture, upon the sale or disposition of all of the Capital Stock of a Guarantor by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, or upon the consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into any Person (in each case, other than to the Company or an Affiliate of the Company or a Subsidiary), or if any Guarantor is dissolved or liquidated, such Guarantor and each Subsidiary of such Guarantor that is also a Guarantor shall be deemed released from all obligations under this Article X without any further action required on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
Release of a Guarantor due to Extraordinary Events
The Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably requested by the Company or a Guarantor in order to evidence the release of such Guarantor from its obligations under its Guarantee of the Notes under this Article X.
Nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor.
Section 10.5. . Until this Indenture is discharged and all of the Notes are discharged and paid in full, each Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives and agrees not to exercise any claim or other rights which it may now or hereafter acquire against the Company that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Company's obligations under the Notes or this Indenture and such Guarantor's obligations under each
Waiver of Subrogation
 
Guarantee and this Indenture, in any such instance including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution, indemnification, and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of the Holders against the Company, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity, or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from the Company, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim or other rights. If any amount shall be paid to any Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence and any amounts owing to the Trustee or the Holders of Notes under the Notes, this Indenture, or any other document or instrument delivered under or in connection with such agreements or instruments, shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall have been deemed to have been paid to such Guarantor for the benefit of, and held in trust for the benefit of, the Trustee or the Holders and shall forthwith be paid to the Trustee for the benefit of itself or such Holders to be credited and applied to the obligations in favor of the Trustee or the Holders, as the case may be, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. Each Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by this Indenture and that the waiver set forth in this Section 10.5 is knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
Section 10.6. . Each payment to be made by a Guarantor hereunder in respect of the Obligations shall be payable in the currency or currencies in which such Obligations are denominated, and shall be made without set-off, counterclaim, reduction or diminution of any kind or nature.
No Set-Off
Section 10.7. . The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder are and shall be absolute and unconditional and any monies or amounts expressed to be owing or payable by each Guarantor hereunder which may not be recoverable from such Guarantor on the basis of a Guarantee shall be recoverable from such Guarantor as a primary obligor and principal debtor in respect thereof.
Obligations Absolute
Section 10.8. . The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall be continuing and shall remain in full force and effect until all the obligations have been paid and satisfied in full. Each Guarantor agrees with the Trustee that it will from time to time deliver to the Trustee suitable acknowledgments of its continued liability hereunder and under any other instrument or instruments in such form as counsel to the Trustee may advise and as will prevent any action brought against it in respect of any default hereunder being barred by any statute of limitations now or hereafter in force and, in the event of the failure of a Guarantor so to do, it hereby irrevocably appoints the Trustee the attorney and agent of such Guarantor to make, execute and deliver such written acknowledgment or acknowledgments or other instruments as may from time to time become necessary or advisable, in the judgment of the Trustee on the advice of counsel, to fully maintain and keep in force the liability of such Guarantor hereunder.
Obligations Continuing
Section 10.9. . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 10.2 and 10.4, the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be satisfied, reduced or discharged except solely by the payment of such principal, premium, if any, interest, fees and other monies or amounts as may at any time prior to discharge of this Indenture pursuant to Article VIII be or become owing or payable under or by virtue of or otherwise in connection with the Notes or this Indenture.
Obligations Not Reduced
 
Section 10.10. . The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall continue to be effective or shall be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment which would otherwise have reduced the obligations of any Guarantor hereunder (whether such payment shall have been made by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of a Guarantor) is rescinded or reclaimed from the Trustee or any of the Holders upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of the Company or any Guarantor or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made. If demand for, or acceleration of the time for, payment by the Company is stayed upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of the Company, all such Indebtedness otherwise subject to demand for payment or acceleration shall nonetheless be payable by each Guarantor as provided herein.
Obligations Reinstated
Section 10.11. . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 10.2 and 10.4, the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be affected, impaired or diminished in any way by any act, omission, matter or thing whatsoever, occurring before, upon or after any demand for payment hereunder (and whether or not known or consented to by any Guarantor or any of the Holders) which, but for this provision, might constitute a whole or partial defense to a claim against any Guarantor hereunder or might operate to release or otherwise exonerate any Guarantor from any of its obligations hereunder or otherwise affect such obligations, whether occasioned by default of any of the Holders or otherwise, including, without limitation:
Obligations Not Affected
(a) any limitation of status or power, disability, incapacity or other circumstance relating to the Company or any other person, including any insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, readjustment, composition, dissolution, winding up or other proceeding involving or affecting the Company or any other person;
(b) any irregularity, defect, unenforceability or invalidity in respect of any indebtedness or other obligation of the Company or any other person under this Indenture, the Notes or any other document or instrument;
(c) any failure of the Company, whether or not without fault on its part, to perform or comply with any of the provisions of this Indenture or the Notes, or to give notice thereof to a Guarantor;
(d) the taking or enforcing or exercising or the refusal or neglect to take or enforce or exercise any right or remedy from or against the Company or any other Person or their respective assets or the release or discharge of any such right or remedy;
(e) the granting of time, renewals, extensions, compromises, concessions, waivers, releases, discharges and other indulgences to the Company or any other Person;
(f) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, any of the Notes, or any other amendment, variation, supplement, replacement or waiver of, or any consent to departure from, any of the Notes or this Indenture, including, without limitation, any increase or decrease in any amount due with respect to any of the Notes;
(g) any change in the ownership, control, name, objects, businesses, assets, capital structure or constitution of the Company or a Guarantor;
 
(h) any merger or amalgamation of the Company or a Guarantor with any Person or Persons;
(i) the occurrence of any change in the laws, rules, regulations or ordinances of any jurisdiction by any present or future action of any governmental authority or court amending, varying, reducing or otherwise affecting, or purporting to amend, vary, reduce or otherwise affect, any of the Obligations or the obligations of a Guarantor under its Guarantee; and
(j) any other circumstance (other than by complete, irrevocable payment) that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of the Company under this Indenture or the Notes or of a Guarantor in respect of its Guarantee hereunder.
Section 10.12. . Without in any way limiting the provisions of Section 10.1 hereof, each Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance hereof, notice of any liability of any Guarantor hereunder, notice or proof of reliance by the Holders upon the obligations of any Guarantor hereunder, and diligence, presentment, demand for payment on the Company, protest, notice of dishonor or non-payment of any of the Obligations, or other notice or formalities to the Company or any Guarantor of any kind whatsoever.
Waiver
Section 10.13. . Neither the Trustee nor any other Person shall have any obligation to enforce or exhaust any rights or remedies or to take any other steps under any security for the Obligations or against the Company or any other Person or any Property of the Company or any other Person before the Trustee is entitled to demand payment and performance by any or all Guarantors of their liabilities and obligations under their Guarantees or under this Indenture.
No Obligation to Take Action Against the Company
Section 10.14. . The Holders, without releasing, discharging, limiting or otherwise affecting in whole or in part the obligations and liabilities of any Guarantor hereunder and without the consent of or notice to any Guarantor, may:
Dealing with the Company and Others
(a) grant time, renewals, extensions, compromises, concessions, waivers, releases, discharges and other indulgences to the Company or any other Person;
(b) take or abstain from taking security or collateral from the Company or from perfecting security or collateral of the Company;
(c) release, discharge, compromise, realize, enforce or otherwise deal with or do any act or thing in respect of (with or without consideration) any and all collateral, mortgages or other security given by the Company or any third party with respect to the obligations or matters contemplated by this Indenture or the Notes;
(d) accept compromises or arrangements from the Company;
(e) apply all monies at any time received from the Company or from any security upon such part of the Obligations as the Holders may see fit or change any such application in whole or in part from time to time as the Holders may see fit; and
 
(f) otherwise deal with, or waive or modify their right to deal with, the Company and all other Persons and any security as the Holders or the Trustee may see fit.
Section 10.15. . If any Guarantor fails to pay in accordance with Section 10.1 hereof, the Trustee may proceed in its name as trustee hereunder in the enforcement of the Guarantee of any such Guarantor and such Guarantor's obligations thereunder and hereunder by any remedy provided by law, whether by legal proceedings or otherwise, and to recover from such Guarantor the obligations.
Default and Enforcement
Section 10.16. . No amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Indenture relating to any Guarantor or consent to any departure by any Guarantor or any other Person from any such provision will in any event be effective or affect the obligation of any other Guarantor unless it is signed by such Guarantor and the Trustee.
Amendment, Etc
Section 10.17. . Each Guarantor hereby acknowledges communication of the terms of this Indenture and the Notes and consents to and approves of the same.
Acknowledgment
Section 10.18. . Each Guarantor shall pay on demand by the Trustee any and all costs, fees and expenses (including, without limitation, legal fees) incurred by the Trustee, its agents, advisors and counsel or any of the Holders in enforcing any of their rights under any Guarantee.
Costs and Expenses
Section 10.19. . No Guarantee shall operate by way of merger of any of the obligations of a Guarantor under any other agreement, including, without limitation, this Indenture. No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Trustee or the Holders, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under the Notes or the Guarantees, shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under this Indenture or the Notes or the Guarantees preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges in the Guarantee and under this Indenture, the Notes and any other document or instrument between a Guarantor and/or the Company and the Trustee are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
No Merger or Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
Section 10.20. . Without prejudice to the survival of any of the other obligations of each Guarantor hereunder, the obligations of each Guarantor under Section 10.1 shall survive until the indefeasible payment in full of the Obligations and shall be enforceable against such Guarantor without regard to and without giving effect to any defense, right of offset or counterclaim available to or which may be asserted by the Company or any Guarantor.
Survival of Obligations
Section 10.21. . The obligations of each Guarantor under its Guarantee and this Indenture are in addition to and not in substitution for any other obligations to the Trustee or to any of the Holders in relation to this Indenture or the Notes and any guarantees or security at any time held by or for the benefit of any of them.
Guarantee in Addition to Other Obligations
Section 10.22. . Any provision of this Article X which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate the remaining provisions and any such
Severability
 
prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction unless its removal would substantially defeat the basic intent, spirit and purpose of this Indenture and this Article X.
Section 10.23. . Each Guarantee shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Guarantor and the Trustee and the Holders and their respective successors and permitted assigns, except that no Guarantor may assign any of its obligations hereunder or thereunder.
Successors and Assigns
Section 10.24. . Each Guarantor acknowledges that, by virtue of its Guarantee, it is becoming an "obligor" on indenture securities under the TIA.
Acknowledgement under TIA
Section 11.1. .
TIA Controls
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control; , , that this Section 11.1 shall not of itself require that this Indenture or the Trustee be qualified under the TIA or constitute any admission or acknowledgment by any party hereto that any such qualification is required prior to the time this Indenture and the Trustee are required by the TIA to be so qualified.
provided
however
Section 11.2. .
Notices
Any notices or other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be sufficiently given if made by hand delivery, by telex, by telecopier or overnight courier guaranteeing next-day delivery or registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:
if to the Company:
Lennar Corporation
700 N.W. 107th Avenue
Miami, Florida 33172
Attn: General Counsel
if to the Trustee:
JPMorgan Chase Bank
4 NY Plaza, 15
th
Floor
New York, NY 10004
 
with a copy to:
J.P. Morgan
Institutional Trust Services
GIS Unit Trust Window
4 New York Plaza, 1st Floor
New York, New York 10004
Each of the Company and the Trustee by written notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for notices to such Person. Any notice or communication to the Company or the Trustee shall be deemed to have been given or made as of the date so delivered if hand delivered; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if faxed; and five (5) calendar days after mailing if sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid (except that a notice of change of address shall not be deemed to have been given until actually received by the addressee).
Any notice or communication mailed to a Holder shall be mailed by first class mail, certified or registered return receipt requested, or by overnight courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar. Any notice or communication shall be mailed to any Person as described in TIA  313(c), to the extent required by the TIA.
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
Section 11.3. .
Communications by Holders with Other Holders
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and any other Person shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
Section 11.4. .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
 
 
Section 11.5. .
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture, other than the Officers' Certificate required by Section 4.4, shall include:
 
 
 
 
Section 11.6. .
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Registrar
The Trustee may make reasonable rules in accordance with the Trustee's customary practices for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Paying Agent or Registrar may make reasonable rules for its functions.
Section 11.7. .
Legal Holidays
If any payment date is due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment may be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Section 11.8. .
Governing Law
THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING SECTION 5-1401 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAWS RULES THAT WOULD APPLY THE LAWS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION. Each of the parties hereto agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York sitting in the County of New York, or of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Indenture.
 
Section 11.9. .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
Section 11.10. .
No Personal Liability
No director, officer, employee or stockholder of the Company, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
Section 11.11. . All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind their successors and permitted assigns. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors and permitted assigns.
Successors
Section 11.12. . All parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together shall represent the same agreement.
Duplicate Originals
Section 11.13. . In case any one or more of the provisions in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby, it being intended that all of the provisions hereof shall be enforceable to the full extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties to this Indenture have caused it to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS SECURITY MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER.
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) THIS SECURITY MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) TO THE ISSUER OR ANY SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER, (II) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (III) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 501(a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), (IV) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (V) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE) OR (VI) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH CASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE U.S., AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY SUBSEQUENT PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE.
[THE FOREGOING LEGEND MAY BE REMOVED FROM THE SECURITY ON SATISFACTION OF THE CONDITIONS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE.]
 
CUSIP No.: 526057AV6
 
Interest Rate: 6.50% per annum.
Interest Payment Dates: December 15 and June 15, commencing December 15, 2006
Record Dates: December 1 and June 1
Lennar Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes any successor entities), for value received, promises to pay to              or registered assigns, on April 15, 2016, the principal amount of              Dollars ($             ), together with interest thereon as hereinafter provided.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Lennar Corporation has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
Dated:
                                                 
 
 
Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture, dated as of April 26, 2006, relating to the Notes (the ""), and as amended from time to time, by and among Lennar Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Guarantors named therein and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A. as trustee (the "").
Indenture
Company
Trustee
 
The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum above. Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the Issue Date. The Company shall pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing as of the Interest Payment Date referred to above and upon redemption. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and, in the case of a partial month, the actual number of days elapsed.
The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the rate borne by the Notes.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall (a) pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are the registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Record Date immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date even if the Notes are canceled, transferred or exchanged after such Record Date, and (b) make all other payments in respect of the Notes to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Business Day preceding the Redemption Date or Maturity, as the case may be. Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Notes referred to in clause (b) of the preceding sentence. The Company shall pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make the cash payments by check payable in such money.
 
Initially, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association (the "Trustee"), shall act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
 
The Company issued the Notes under the Indenture. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Notes of the Company designated as its 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series A (the ""). The Notes include the Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Unrestricted Notes, as defined below, issued in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Unrestricted Notes are treated as a single class of securities under the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (the ""), as in effect on the date of the Indenture. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company. Each Holder, by accepting a Note, agrees to be bound by all of the terms and provisions of the Indenture, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Initial Notes
TIA
 
No sinking fund is provided for the Notes. The Notes are redeemable as a whole, or from time to time in part, at any time at the option of the Company at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of: (a) 100% of their principal amount; and (b) the present value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on the Notes being redeemed on the Redemption Date, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis, at the Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points (0.25%), together, in either case, with accrued interest to the Redemption Date on their principal amount.
 
Notice of redemption at the option of the Company shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Notes (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, interest ceases to accrue on such Notes or portions thereof on and after such date. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000.
 
Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will be obligated to consummate an exchange offer pursuant to which the Holder of this Note shall have the right to exchange this Note for the Company's 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series B (the ""), which will be registered under the Securities Act, in like principal amount and having terms identical in all material respects as the Initial Notes. The Holders of the Initial Notes shall be entitled to receive certain additional interest payments in the event such exchange offer is not consummated and upon certain other conditions, all pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement.
Unrestricted Notes
 
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiplies of $1,000. A Holder may transfer Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any governmental taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Notes selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Note to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Note not to be redeemed) or any Notes for a period of 15 days before any selection of Notes to be redeemed.
 
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or property held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such return, shall at the expense of the Company cause to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or mail to each such Holder notice that such money or property remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication or mailing, any unclaimed money or property then remaining shall be returned to the Company. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or property must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Notes may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding and (ii) certain defaults or noncompliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Notes to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to make any change that does not adversely affect the right of any Holder, to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the Trustee as security for the Notes any property or assets, to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company (or successive successions) and the assumption by the successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions or conditions as the Board of Directors and the Trustee shall consider to be for the benefit of the Holders of Notes, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions or conditions a Default or an Event of Default
 
permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in the Indenture, to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes, or to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of the Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary for the Indenture to comply with the TIA, or under any similar federal statute hereafter enacted.
 
Under the Indenture, Events of Default include (i) a default by the Company in the payment of any interest which continues for more than 30 days after the due date, (ii) a default by the Company in the payment of any principal or Redemption Price due with respect to the Notes; (iii) a default by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to its obligation to pay Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than Non-Recourse Indebtedness), which default shall have resulted in the acceleration of, or be a failure to pay at final maturity, Indebtedness aggregating more than $50 million; (iv) a failure to perform any other covenant or warranty of the Company herein and in the Indenture, which continues for 30 days after written notice; (v) final judgments or orders are rendered against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary which require the payment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of an amount (to the extent not covered by insurance) in excess of $50 million and such judgments or orders remain unstayed or unsatisfied for more than 60 days and are not being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (vi) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, pursuant to any Bankruptcy Law applicable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary: (A) commences a voluntary case; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case; (C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (vii) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any applicable Bankruptcy Law: (A) for relief in an involuntary case against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (B) appointing a Custodian of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its respective property; or (C) ordering the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Restricted Security; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, may declare the outstanding principal of the Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration on all of the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which shall result in the outstanding principal amount of all Notes being declared due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture and the Notes unless it receives reasonable indemnity or security. Subject to certain limitations, conditions and exceptions, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power, including the annulment of a declaration of acceleration. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment of amounts specified in clauses (i) and (ii) above) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests.
 
The Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
A director, officer, or employee, as such, of the Company or any Subsidiary, the Indenture or any stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
 
This Note will be entitled to the benefits of certain Guarantees, if any, made for the benefit of the Holders. Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations thereunder of the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders.
 
The Notes shall be direct, unsecured obligations of the Company and shall rank in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company. The Guarantees shall be direct, unsecured obligations of the Guarantors and shall rank in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Guarantors.
pari passu
pari passu
 
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TENANT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE.
 
The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Note in larger type. Requests may be made to:
Lennar Corporation
700 N.W. 107
th
Avenue
Miami, Florida 33172
Attn: General Counsel
 
If you, the Holder, want to assign this Note, fill in the form below and have your signature guaranteed:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
____________________________________
____________________________________
____________________________________
(Print or type name, address and zip code and social security or tax ID number of assignee)
and irrevocably appoint , agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                        
Dated:
                                             
 
Signature Guarantee:
                                                 
Signature must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution," that is, a bank, stockbroker, savings and loan association or credit union meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
STAMP
In connection with any transfer of this Note occurring prior to the date which is the earlier of (i) the date of the declaration by the SEC of the effectiveness of a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), covering resales of this Note (which effectiveness shall not have been suspended or terminated at the date of the transfer) and (ii) the second anniversary of the Issue Date (, , that neither the Company nor any affiliate of the Company has held any beneficial interest in such Note, or portion thereof, or any predecessor security at any time on or prior to the second anniversary of the Issue Date), the undersigned confirms that it has not utilized any general solicitation or general advertising in connection with the transfer:
Securities Act
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and unless the box below is checked, the undersigned confirms that such Note is not being transferred to an "affiliate" of the Company as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (an "Affiliate"):
Unless one of the items is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered Holder thereof; , , that if item (3), (4), (5) or (7) is checked, the Company or the Trustee may require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Notes, in their sole discretion, such written legal opinions, certifications (including an investment letter in the case of box (3) or (4) and other information as the Trustee or the Company have reasonably requested to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
provided
however
If none of the foregoing items are checked, the Trustee or Registrar shall not be obligated to register this Note in the name of any person other than the Holder hereof unless and until the conditions to any such transfer of registration set forth herein and in Section 2.17 of the Indenture shall have been satisfied.
 
Signature Guarantee:
                                                     
The undersigned represents and warrants that it is purchasing this Note for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the
 
Securities Act and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as the undersigned has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon the undersigned's foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A.
 
 
EXHIBIT B
CUSIP No.: 526057AW4
 
Interest Rate: 6.50% per annum.
Interest Payment Dates: December 15 and June 15, commencing December 15, 2006
Record Dates: December 1 and June 1
Lennar Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes any successor entities), for value received, promises to pay to              or registered assigns, on April 15, 2016, the principal amount of              Dollars ($            ), together with interest thereon as hereinafter provided.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Lennar Corporation has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
 
Dated:
                                                     
 
 
Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture, dated as of April 26, 2006, relating to the Notes (the ""), and as amended from time to time, by and among Lennar Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Guarantors named therein and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A. as trustee (the "").
Indenture
Company
Trustee
 
The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum above. Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the Issue Date. The Company shall pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing as of the Interest Payment Date referred to above and upon redemption. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and, in the case of a partial month, the actual number of days elapsed.
The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the rate borne by the Notes.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall (a) pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are the registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Record Date immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date even if the Notes are canceled transferred or exchanged after such Record Date, and (b) make all other payments in respect of the Notes to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Business Day preceding the Redemption Date or Maturity, as the case may be. Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Notes referred to in clause (b) of the preceding sentence. The Company shall pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make the cash payments by check payable in such money.
 
Initially, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association (the "Trustee"), shall act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
 
The Company issued the Notes under the Indenture. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Notes of the Company designated as its 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016, Series B (the ""). The Notes include the Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Unrestricted Notes, issued in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The Initial Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Unrestricted Notes are treated as a single class of securities under the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (the ""), as in effect on the date of the Indenture. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company. Each Holder, by accepting a Note, agrees to be bound by all of the terms and provisions of the Indenture, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Unrestricted Notes
TIA
 
No sinking fund is provided for the Notes. The Notes are redeemable as a whole, or from time to time in part, at any time at the option of the Company at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of: (a) 100% of their principal amount; and (b) the present value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on the Notes being redeemed on the Redemption Date, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis, at the Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points (0.25%), together, in either case, with accrued interest to the Redemption Date on their principal amount.
 
Notice of redemption at the option of the Company shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Notes (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, interest ceases to accrue on such Notes or portions thereof on and after such date. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000.
 
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiplies of $1,000. A Holder may transfer Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any governmental taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Notes selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Note to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Note not to be redeemed) or any Notes for a period of 15 days before any selection of Notes to be redeemed.
 
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or property held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such return, shall at the expense of the Company cause to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or mail to each such Holder notice that such money or property remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication or mailing, any unclaimed money or property then remaining shall be returned to the Company. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or property must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Notes may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding and (ii) certain defaults or noncompliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Notes to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to make any change that does not adversely affect the right of any Holder, to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the Trustee as security for the Notes any property or assets, to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company (or successive successions) and the assumption by the successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions or conditions as the Board of Directors and the Trustee shall consider to be for the benefit of the Holders of Notes, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions or conditions a Default or an Event of Default permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in the Indenture, to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes, or to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of the Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary for the Indenture to comply with the TIA, or under any similar federal statute hereafter enacted.
 
Under the Indenture, Events of Default include (i) a default by the Company in the payment of any interest which continues for more than 30 days after the due date, (ii) a default by the Company in the payment of any principal or Redemption Price due with respect to the Notes; (iii) a default by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to its obligation to pay Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than Non-Recourse Indebtedness),
 
which default shall have resulted in the acceleration of, or be a failure to pay at final maturity, Indebtedness aggregating more than $50 million; (iv) a failure to perform any other covenant or warranty of the Company herein and in the Indenture, which continues for 30 days after written notice; (v) final judgments or orders are rendered against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary which require the payment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of an amount (to the extent not covered by insurance) in excess of $50 million and such judgments or orders remain unstayed or unsatisfied for more than 60 days and are not being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (vi) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, pursuant to any Bankruptcy Law applicable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary: (A) commences a voluntary case; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case; (C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (vii) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any applicable Bankruptcy Law: (A) for relief in an involuntary case against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (B) appointing a Custodian of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its respective property; or (C) ordering the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Restricted Security; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, may declare the outstanding principal of the Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration on all of the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which shall result in the outstanding principal amount of all Notes being declared due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture and the Notes unless it receives reasonable indemnity or security. Subject to certain limitations, conditions and exceptions, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power, including the annulment of a declaration of acceleration. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment of amounts specified in clauses (i) and (ii) above) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests.
 
The Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
A director, officer, or employee, as such, of the Company or any Subsidiary, the Indenture or any stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder
 
waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
 
This Note will be entitled to the benefits of certain Guarantees, if any, made for the benefit of the Holders. Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations thereunder of the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders.
 
The Notes shall be direct, unsecured obligations of the Company and shall rank in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company. The Guarantees shall be direct, unsecured obligations of the Guarantors and shall rank in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Guarantors.
pari passu
pari passu
 
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TENANT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE.
The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Note in larger type. Requests may be made to:
Lennar Corporation
700 N.W. 107
th
Avenue
Miami, Florida 33172
Attn: General Counsel
 
If you, the Holder, want to assign this Note, fill in the form below and have your signature guaranteed:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
__________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
(Print or type name, address and zip code and social security or tax ID number of assignee)
and irrevocably appoint , agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                                 
 
Signature Guarantee:
                                                         
Signature must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution," that is, a bank, stockbroker, savings and loan association or credit union meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 

Exhibit No. 10.3
New York, New York
April 19, 2006
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
UBS Securities LLC
BNP Paribas Securities Corp.
Calyon Securities (USA) Inc.
SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc.
c/o UBS Securities LLC
677 Washington Blvd.
Stamford, CT 06901
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Lennar Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (the ""), hereby confirms its agreement with the initial purchasers named on Schedule I hereto (each, an "" and collectively, the "") for whom Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC (the "") are acting as representatives, as set forth below.
Company
Initial Purchaser
Initial Purchasers
Representatives
Subject to the terms and conditions herein contained, the Company proposes to issue and sell to the Initial Purchasers $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011 (the "") and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "" and, together with the 2011 Notes, the ""). The Notes are to be issued pursuant to the terms of Indentures (the "") among the Company, the Guarantors (as defined below) and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A. as trustee (the ""). The Notes will be unconditionally guaranteed (collectively, the "") jointly and severally, by each of the direct or indirect subsidiaries of the Company listed on hereto (the ""). The Notes and the Guarantees are collectively referred to herein as the "."
2011 Notes
2016 Notes
Notes
Indentures
Trustee
Guarantees
Schedule II
Guarantors
Securities
The Securities will be offered and sold to you without being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), in reliance on exemptions therefrom.
Act
In connection with the sale of the Securities, the Company has prepared an offering memorandum dated April 19, 2006 (including the information incorporated by reference therein, the ""), setting forth or incorporating a description of the terms of the Securities, the terms of the offering of the Securities, a description of the Company and any material developments relating to the Company occurring after the date of the most recent historical financial statements incorporated by reference therein. Unless stated to the contrary, all references herein to the Memorandum are to the Memorandum on the date hereof and shall not be deemed to include any amendment or supplement thereto subsequent to the date hereof or any information filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") subsequent to the date hereof which is incorporated by reference therein and any references herein to the terms "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include any information filed under the Exchange Act subsequent to the date hereof which is incorporated by reference therein. The Company hereby confirms that it has authorized the use of the Memorandum, and any amendment or supplement thereto, in connection with the resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers.
Memorandum
Exchange Act
The Company understands that the Initial Purchasers propose to make an offering of the Securities only on the terms and in the manner set forth in the Memorandum and Section 8 hereof as soon as the Initial Purchasers deem advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered, to persons in the United States whom the Initial Purchasers reasonably believe to be qualified institutional buyers ("" or "") as defined in Rule 144A under the Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time (""), and outside the United States to certain persons in reliance on Regulation S under the Act ("").
Qualified Institutional Buyers
QIBs
Rule 144A
Regulation S
The Initial Purchasers and the direct and indirect transferees of (i) the 2011 Notes and the related Guarantees and (ii) the 2016 Notes and the related Guarantees will each be entitled to the benefits of Registration Rights Agreements, substantially in the form attached hereto as and , respectively (together, the ""), each to be dated as of the Closing Date (as defined in Section 3 below), pursuant to which the Company will agree, among other things, to file one or more registration statements (each, a "") with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") registering under the Act resales of the Securities or the exchange by the Company of Exchange Notes (as defined in the applicable Registration Rights Agreement) and the guarantees of the Exchange Notes for the applicable Securities.
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Registration Rights Agreements
Registration Statement
Commission
1. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Initial Purchaser as set forth below in this Section 1:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a) Neither the Memorandum nor any amendment or supplement thereto as of the date thereof and at all times subsequent thereto up to the Closing Date contained or will contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except that the representations and warranties set forth in this paragraph 1(a) do not apply to statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the Memorandum (or any supplement thereto).
 
(b) The Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has the corporate power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as described in the Memorandum and is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification.
(c) Each consolidated subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated or organized, is validly existing as an entity in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, has the power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as described in the Memorandum and is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent of failures to qualify that could not in the aggregate reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole; all of the issued shares of capital stock of each consolidated subsidiary of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and, except as described in the Memorandum, are owned directly or indirectly by the Company free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims.
(d) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; the Indentures have been duly authorized and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee, when executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantors, will constitute legal, valid and binding instruments enforceable against each of the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with their terms (subject, as to the enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity); the Notes have been duly authorized, and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Initial Purchasers, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the applicable Indenture (subject, as to the enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity).
(e) The Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes (as such term is defined in the Registration Rights Agreements), if and when issued, shall be in the form contemplated by the applicable Indenture. The Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes, if and when executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Indenture and, if and when issued and delivered in exchange for the Securities in accordance with the applicable Registration Rights Agreement, will have been duly executed, issued and delivered and shall constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the applicable Indenture by the Trustee and the due authorization and delivery of the Securities, the Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes by the Trustee in accordance with the applicable Indenture), entitled to the benefits of the applicable Indenture, and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms (subject, as to the enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization,
 
insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity).
(f) The Guarantees and the guarantees of the Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes, if and when issued, will be in the form contemplated by the applicable Indenture. The Guarantees and the guarantees of the Exchange Notes have been duly authorized and, when executed and delivered by each of the Guarantors in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Indenture, will have been duly executed, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Guarantors, entitled to the benefits of the applicable Indenture and enforceable against the Guarantors in accordance with their terms (subject, as to the enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity).
(g) The Registration Rights Agreements have been duly authorized and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Initial Purchasers, when executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantors, will constitute legal, valid and binding instruments enforceable against each of the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with their terms (subject, as to the enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity).
(h) Each of the Indentures, the Securities, and the Registration Rights Agreements conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Memorandum.
(i) The authorized capital stock of the Company conforms as to legal matters to the description thereof contained or incorporated by reference in the Memorandum.
(j) The shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock outstanding have been duly authorized and are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable; and the holders of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company are not entitled to any preemptive or other rights to subscribe for the capital stock or any other securities of the Company; and, except as set forth in the Memorandum or otherwise disclosed in writing to the Initial Purchasers, no options, warrants or other rights to purchase, agreements or other obligations to issue, or rights to convert any obligations into or exchange any securities for, shares of capital stock of or ownership interests in the Company are outstanding.
(k) No consent, approval, authorization, filing with or order of any court or governmental agency or body is required in connection with the transactions contemplated herein, except (i) the qualification of the Indentures under the Trust Indenture Act as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreements, (ii) in the case of performance of the Registration Rights Agreements, filing with the Commission of and the receipt of an order of the Commission declaring the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement (each as defined in the Registration Rights Agreements) effective and (iii) such additional steps as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws.
 
(l) Neither the issue and sale of the Securities nor the consummation of any other of the transactions herein contemplated nor the fulfillment of the terms hereof will conflict with, result in a breach or violation of, or result in imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, (i) the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it is bound or to which its or their property is subject, or (iii) any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except as set forth in the Memorandum.
(m) There has not occurred any material adverse change, or any development, which insofar as can reasonably be foreseen, involves a prospective material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, from that set forth in the Memorandum (exclusive of any amendments or supplements thereto subsequent to the date of this Agreement).
(n) No action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or its or their property is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened that (i) could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the performance of this Agreement or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated hereby or (ii) could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
(o) The consolidated historical financial statements and schedules of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries included or incorporated by reference in the Memorandum present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries as of the dates and for the periods indicated, comply as to form with the applicable accounting requirements of the Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved (except as otherwise noted therein).
(p) Deloitte & Touche LLP, who have certified certain consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and delivered their report with respect to the audited consolidated financial statements and schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Memorandum, are independent registered public accountants within the meaning of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Act with respect to the Company within the meaning of the Act and the applicable published rules and regulations thereunder.
(q) Each of the Company and its subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all real property described in the Memorandum as being owned by it and good and marketable title to the leasehold estate in the real property described therein as being leased by it, free and
 
clear of all liens, charges, encumbrances or restrictions, except, in each case, as described in the Memorandum or such as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto). All leases, contracts and agreements, including those referred to in the Memorandum to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound are valid and enforceable against the Company or any such subsidiary, are valid and enforceable against the other party or parties thereto and are in full force and effect, except where the failure to be valid and enforceable against the other party or other parties thereto or to be in full force and effect would not have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
(r) Neither the Company nor any subsidiary is in violation or default of (i) any provision of its charter or bylaws, (ii) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which it is a party or bound or to which its property is subject, or (iii) any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or such subsidiary or any of its properties, as applicable, except, in the cases of clauses (ii) and (iii) for such violations and defaults that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business. No holders of any series of outstanding securities of the Company have (x) directly notified the Company or, to the Company's knowledge, notified the Trustee of any default with respect to such securities or (y) declared the principal and accrued interest, if any, on such securities to be due and payable.
(s) The Company and its subsidiaries possess all licenses, certificates, permits and other authorizations issued by the appropriate federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities necessary to conduct their respective businesses, and neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such certificate, authorization or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
(t) The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and the sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Memorandum, will not be an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(u) The Company has filed all foreign, federal, state and local tax returns that are required to be filed or has requested extensions thereof (except in any case in which the failure so to file would not have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto) and has paid all taxes required to be paid by it and any other assessment, fine or penalty levied against it, to the extent that any of the foregoing is due and payable, except for any such assessment, fine or penalty that is currently being contested in good faith or as would not have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
(v) No labor problem or dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or is threatened or imminent, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers, that could have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
(w) The Company and its subsidiaries are insured by insurers of recognized financial responsibility against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are prudent and customary in the businesses in which they are engaged; all policies of insurance and fidelity or surety bonds insuring the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments in all material respects; and there are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause; neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for; and neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business at a cost that would not have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
(x) No subsidiary of the Company is currently prohibited, directly or indirectly, from paying any dividends to the Company, from making any other distribution on such subsidiary's capital stock, from repaying to the Company any loans or advances to such subsidiary from the Company or from transferring any of such subsidiary's property or assets to the Company or any other subsidiary of the Company, except as described in or contemplated by the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
 
(y) The Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
(z) The Company and its subsidiaries are (i) in compliance with any and all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants (""), (ii) have received and are in compliance with all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses and (iii) have not received notice of any actual or potential liability for the investigation or remediation of any disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, except where such non-compliance with Environmental Laws, failure to receive required permits, licenses or other approvals, or liability would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto). Except as set forth in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto), neither the Company nor any of the subsidiaries has been named as a "potentially responsible party" under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
Environmental Laws
(aa) In the ordinary course of its business, the Company periodically reviews the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated costs and liabilities (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws, or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties). On the basis of such review, the Company has reasonably concluded that such associated costs and liabilities would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
(bb) Each of the Company and its subsidiaries has fulfilled its obligations, if any, under the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("") and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to each "plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA and such regulations and published interpretations) in which employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate and each such plan is in compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and such regulations and published
ERISA
 
interpretations. The Company and its subsidiaries have not incurred any unpaid liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (other than for the payment of premiums in the ordinary course) or to any such plan under Title IV of ERISA.
(cc) The subsidiaries listed on Annex A attached hereto are the only significant subsidiaries of the Company as defined by Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X.
(dd) The Company and its subsidiaries own, possess, license or have other rights to use, on reasonable terms, all patents, patent applications, trade and service marks, trade and service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, licenses, inventions, trade secrets, technology, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "") necessary for the conduct of the Company's business in all material respects as now conducted or as proposed in the Memorandum to be conducted. There are no conflicting rights of third parties to any such Intellectual Property; there is no material infringement by third parties of any such Intellectual Property; there is no pending or, to the Company's best knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's rights in or to any such Intellectual Property, and the Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; there is no pending or, to the Company's best knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the validity or scope of any such Intellectual Property, and the Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; there is no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others that the Company infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of others, and the Company is unaware of any other fact which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; there is no U.S. patent or published U.S. patent application which contains claims that dominate or may dominate any Intellectual Property described in the Memorandum as being owned by or licensed to the Company or that interferes with the issued or pending claims of any such Intellectual Property; and there is no prior art of which the Company is aware that may render any U.S. patent held by the Company invalid or any U.S. patent application held by the Company unpatentable which has not been disclosed to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
Intellectual Property
(ee) Except as disclosed in the Memorandum, the Company does not have any material lending or other relationship with any bank or lending affiliate of any of the Initial Purchasers. The Company intends to use the proceeds from the sale of the Securities hereunder for the purposes described in the Memorandum under the caption "Use of Proceeds."
(ff) Neither the offering or sale of the Securities as contemplated by this Agreement nor the filing of any Registration Statement contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreements, gives rise or shall give rise to any rights, other than those that have been waived or satisfied, for or relating to the registration of any securities of the Company or the Guarantors.
(gg) The Company has established and maintains disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting (as such terms are defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act); such disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company and its subsidiaries is made known to the Company's chief executive officer and its chief financial officer by others within those entities, and such disclosure controls and procedures are effective to perform the functions for which they
 
were established; such internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and of the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are effective to perform the functions for which they are designed; since the date of the most recent evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting, there have been no significant changes in disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting or in other factors that could significantly affect disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses; the principal executive officers and principal financial officers of the Company have made all certifications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "") and any related rules and regulations promulgated by the Commission, and the statements contained in any such certification are complete and correct; and the Company is and, to the knowledge of the Company, all of its directors and executive officers (in their capacity as such) are, otherwise in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that are effective.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
(hh) Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors or any of their respective Affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D under the Act) has directly, or through any agent, (i) sold, offered for sale, solicited offers to buy or otherwise negotiated in respect of any "security" (as defined in the Act) which is or could be integrated with the sale of the Securities in a manner that would require the registration under the Act of the Securities or (ii) engaged in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the Act) in connection with the offering of the Securities or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Act.
(ii) Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers in Section 8 hereof, it is not necessary in connection with the offer, sale and delivery of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by this Agreement to register any of the Securities under the Act or to qualify the Indentures under the Trust Indenture Act.
(jj) No securities of the Company or any Guarantor are of the same class (within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Act) as the Securities and listed on a national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act, or quoted in a U.S. automated inter-dealer quotation system.
(kk) Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors has taken, nor will any of them take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to, or that might be reasonably expected to, cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
(ll) Except as disclosed in the Memorandum, there are no business relationships or related party transactions which would be required to be disclosed in a registration statement under the Act by Item 404 of Regulation S-K of the Commission, and each description in the Memorandum of a business relationship or related party transaction is a fair and accurate description of the relationships and transactions so described in all material respects.
 
(mm) Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors or any of their respective Affiliates nor any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers) has engaged in any directed selling efforts (as that term is defined in Regulation S) with respect to the Securities; each of the Company, the Guarantors and their respective Affiliates and any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers) have complied with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S.
(nn) The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is eligible to file a Registration Statement on Form S-3. Each document filed, or to be filed prior to the closing of transactions contemplated by this Agreement, by the Company pursuant to the Exchange Act and incorporated, or to be incorporated, by reference in the Memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto) at the time filed with the Commission conformed, or will conform, in all material respects with the Exchange Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(oo) The Securities satisfy the eligibility requirements of Rule 144A(d)(3) under the Act.
Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Initial Purchasers or counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company as to matters covered thereby, to each Initial Purchaser.
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Initial Purchaser, and each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, the aggregate principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite such Initial Purchaser's name in hereto, (i) in the case of the 2011 Notes, at a purchase price of 99.466% of their principal amount, plus accrued interest and (ii) in the case of the 2016 Notes, at a purchase price of 99.573% of their principal amount, plus accrued interest.
Purchase and Sale
Schedule I
The Company acknowledges and agrees that each Initial Purchaser in providing investment banking services to the Company in connection with the offering of the Notes, including in acting pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, has acted and is acting as an independent contractor on an arm's length basis and not as a fiduciary and the Company does not intend such Initial Purchaser to act in any capacity other than independent contractor, including as a fiduciary or in any other position of higher trust. The Company shall be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Initial Purchasers shall have no responsibility or liability with respect thereto.
3. . Delivery of and payment for the Securities shall be made at 10:00 AM, New York City time, on April 26, 2006, or at such time on such later date not more than three Business Days after the foregoing date as the Representatives shall designate, which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Representatives and the Company or as provided in Section 10 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the ""). One or more global securities representing the Securities shall be registered by the Trustee in the name of the nominee of The
Delivery and Payment
Closing Date
 
Depository Trust Company (""), Cede & Co., credited to the accounts of such of its participants as the Representatives shall request, upon notice to the Company at least 48 hours prior to the Closing Date, with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the transfer of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers duly paid, and deposited with the Trustee as custodian for DTC on the Closing Date, against payment by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers to the account of the Company of the aggregate purchase price therefor by wire transfer in immediately available funds.
DTC
4. .
Offering by the Initial Purchasers
(a) It is understood that the Initial Purchasers will offer and sell the Securities in accordance with this Section as soon as they deem it advisable to do so. The Securities are to be initially offered at the offering price set forth in the Memorandum. The Initial Purchasers may from time to time thereafter change the price and other selling terms.
(b) Each Initial Purchaser severally represents and agrees that neither it nor any person acting on its behalf has engaged or will engage in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the Act).
(c) Each Initial Purchaser also severally represents and agrees that it has not entered and will not enter into any contractual arrangement with any distributor with respect to the distribution or delivery of the Securities, except with its affiliates or with the prior written consent of the Company.
5. . The Company agrees with the Initial Purchasers that:
Agreements
(a) The Company will cooperate with the Initial Purchasers in arranging for the qualification of the Securities for offering and sale under the securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Initial Purchasers may designate and will continue such qualification in effect for as long as may be necessary to complete the resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers; , , that in connection therewith the Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to execute a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction.
provided
however
(b) If, at any time prior to the completion of the sale by the Initial Purchasers of the Securities or the Private Exchange Notes, any event occurs or information becomes known as a result of which the Memorandum as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact, or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if for any other reason it is necessary at any time to amend or supplement the Memorandum in order to comply with applicable law, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives thereof and will prepare, at the Company's expense, an amendment or supplement to the Memorandum that corrects such statement or omission or effects such compliance.
(c) The Company will, without charge, provide to the Initial Purchasers and to counsel for the Initial Purchasers as many copies of the Memorandum, any documents incorporated by reference therein any amendment or supplement thereto, as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request.
 
(d) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities as set forth under "Use of Proceeds" in the Memorandum.
(e) For so long as any Securities remain outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Initial Purchasers copies of all reports and other communications (financial or otherwise) furnished by the Company to the Trustee or the holders of the Securities and, as soon as available, copies of any reports or financial statements filed by the Company with the Commission or furnished to any national securities exchange on which any class of securities of the Company may be listed.
(f) Neither the Company, any of the Guarantors nor any of their respective Affiliates will sell, offer for sale or solicit offers to buy or otherwise negotiate in respect of any "security" (as defined in the Act) that could be integrated with the sale of the Securities in a manner that would require the registration under the Act of the Securities.
(g) The Company will not, and will not permit any of the Subsidiaries to, engage in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the Act) in connection with the offering of the Securities or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Act.
(h) The Company will furnish to the Initial Purchasers a copy of each proposed amendment or supplement to the Memorandum, and not use any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Initial Purchasers reasonably object in writing; after the date hereof and prior to the completion of the distribution of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers (as determined by the Initial Purchasers), and the Company will not file any document under the Exchange Act which is incorporated by reference in the Memorandum, in each case unless the Initial Purchasers previously have been advised of, and furnished with a copy within a reasonable period of time prior to, the proposed filing. The Company will advise the Initial Purchasers of the time when any amendment or supplement to the Memorandum has been made or when any document filed under the Exchange Act which is incorporated by reference in the Memorandum has been filed with the Commission and will provide evidence satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers of each such amendment, supplement or filing.
(i) The Company will not, nor will it permit any of its Affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) under the Act) to, during the two-year period following the Closing Date, resell any Securities that have been acquired by any of them.
(j) Except as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreements, neither the Company, nor any of their respective Affiliates, nor any authorized person acting on its or their behalf will, directly or indirectly, make offers or sales of any security, or solicit offers to buy any security, under circumstances that would require the registration of the Securities or the Exchange Notes and guarantees of the Exchange Notes issuable upon exchange thereof under the Act.
(k) So long as any of the Securities are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Act, the Company will, during any period in which it is not subject to and in compliance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, provide to each
 
holder of such restricted securities and to each prospective purchaser (as designated by such holder) of such restricted securities, upon the request of such holder or prospective purchaser, any information required to be provided by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Act. This covenant is intended to be for the benefit of the holders, and the prospective purchasers designated by such holders, from time to time of such restricted securities.
(l) The Company will cooperate with the Initial Purchasers and use all reasonable efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of DTC and such other clearance and settlement systems that the Initial Purchasers may designate.
(m) In connection with any Securities offered and sold in an offshore transaction (as defined in Regulation S), the Company will not register or permit to be registered any transfer of such Securities not made in accordance with the provisions of Regulation S and will not, except in accordance with the provisions of Regulation S, if applicable, issue any such Securities in the form of definitive securities.
(n) Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or which has constituted or which might reasonably be expected to cause or result, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
(o) The Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, or otherwise dispose of, or enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition (whether by actual disposition or effective economic disposition due to cash settlement or otherwise) by the Company or any affiliate of the Company or any person in privity with the Company or any affiliate of the Company, directly or indirectly, or establish or increase a put equivalent position or liquidate or decrease a call equivalent position within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, of any debt securities of the Company, other than commercial paper notes that are exempt from registration by reason of Section 3(a)(3) of the Securities Act, for a period of 5 Business Days after the date hereof.
6. . The obligations of the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Securities shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company contained herein as of the Execution Time (defined below) and the Closing Date pursuant to Section 3 hereof, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Initial Purchasers
(a) Clifford Chance US LLP shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers their written opinion, addressed to the Initial Purchasers and dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, substantially to the effect set forth in Annex B hereto.
 
(b) The Initial Purchasers shall have received from Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Initial Purchasers, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Indentures, the Registration Rights Agreements and other related matters as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they reasonably request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
(c) The Company shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers a certificate of the Company, signed by the Chairman of the Board or the President and the principal financial or accounting officer of the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have carefully examined the Memorandum and this Agreement and that:
(i) the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on the Closing Date and the Company has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date;
(ii) the sale of the Securities hereunder has not been enjoined (temporarily or permanently); and
(iii) since the date of the most recent financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto), there has been no material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
(d) The Company shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers a letter of Deloitte & Touche LLP addressed to the Initial Purchasers and dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, substantially to the effect set forth in Annex C hereto.
(e) Subsequent to the Execution Time or, if earlier, the dates as of which information is given in the Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment thereof), there shall not have been any change, or any development involving a prospective change, in or affecting the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto) the effect of which is, in the sole judgment of the Initial Purchasers, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by the Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment thereof).
(f) Subsequent to the Execution Time, there shall not have been any decrease in the rating of any of the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical
 
rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the Act) or any notice given of any intended or potential decrease in any such rating or of a possible change in any such rating that does not indicate the direction of the possible change.
(g) The issuance and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall not have been enjoined (temporarily or permanently), no restraining order or other injunctive order shall have been issued and no action, suit or proceeding shall have been commenced with respect to this Agreement before any court or governmental authority.
(h) On the Closing Date, the Initial Purchasers shall have received the Registration Rights Agreements executed by the Company and such agreements shall be in full force and effect at all times from and after the Closing Date.
(i) The Indentures shall have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee, and the Securities shall have been duly executed by the Company, and the Securities shall have been duly authenticated by the Trustee.
(j) Prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives such further information, certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request.
If any of the conditions specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled in all material respects when and as provided in this Agreement, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be in all material respects reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, this Agreement and all obligations of the Initial Purchasers hereunder may be canceled at, or at any time prior to, the Closing Date by the Representatives. Notice of such cancellation shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 shall be delivered at the office of Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, at 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York, on the Closing Date.
7. . The Company agrees to pay all costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, whether or not the transactions contemplated herein are consummated or this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 11 hereof, including all costs and expenses incident to: (i) the printing, word processing or other production of documents with respect to such transactions, including any costs of printing the Memorandum and any amendments or supplements thereto, and any blue sky memoranda, (ii) all arrangements relating to the delivery to the Initial Purchasers of copies of the foregoing documents, (iii) the fees and disbursements of the counsel, the accountants and any other experts or advisors retained by the Company, (iv) the preparation (including printing), issuance and delivery to the Initial Purchasers of the Securities, (v) the qualification of the Securities under state securities and blue sky laws, including filing fees and reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Initial Purchasers relating thereto, (vi) the expenses of the Company in connection with any meetings with prospective investors in the
Reimbursement of Initial Purchasers' Expenses
 
Securities, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including fees and expenses of its counsel, and (viii) any fees charged by investment rating agencies for the rating of the Securities.
If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 6 hereof is not satisfied, because of any termination pursuant to Section 11 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Initial Purchasers, the Company will reimburse the Initial Purchasers severally through the Representatives on demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities.
8. . (a) Each of the Initial Purchasers, severally and not jointly, agrees with the Company that (i) it has not and will not solicit offers for, or offer or sell, the Securities by any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the Act) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Act; and (ii) it has and will solicit offers for the Securities only from, and will offer and sell the Securities only to (A) in the case of offers inside the United States, persons whom the Initial Purchasers reasonably believe to be QIBs or, if any such person is buying for one or more institutional accounts for which such person is acting as fiduciary or agent, only when such person has represented to the Initial Purchasers or the Initial Purchasers reasonably believe, that each such account is a QIB, to whom notice has been given that such sale or delivery is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, and, in each case, in transactions under Rule 144A and (B) in the case of offers outside the United States, to persons other than U.S. persons ("non-U.S. purchasers," which term shall include dealers or other professional fiduciaries in the United States acting on a discretionary basis for non-U.S. beneficial owners (other than an estate or trust)); , , that, in the case of this clause (B), in purchasing such Securities such persons are deemed to have represented and agreed as provided under the caption "Notice to Investors; Transfer Restrictions" contained in the Memorandum.
Offering of Securities, Restrictions on Transfer
provided
however
(b) Each of the Initial Purchasers represents and warrants (as to itself only) with respect to offers and sales outside the United States of Securities that (i) it has and will comply with all applicable laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which it acquires, offers, sells or delivers such Securities or has in its possession or distributes any Memorandum or any other material, in all cases at its own expense; (ii) such Securities have not been and will not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except in accordance with Regulation S under the Act or pursuant to an exemption from registration requirements of the Act; (iii) it has offered such Securities and will offer and sell such Securities (A) as part of its distribution at any time and (B) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering and the Closing Date, only in accordance with Rule 903 of Regulation S and, accordingly, neither it nor any persons acting on its behalf have engaged or will engage in any "directed selling efforts" (within the meaning of Regulation S) with respect to the Securities, and any such persons have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S; and (iv) it agrees that, at or prior to confirmation of sales of such Securities, it will have sent to each distributor, dealer or person
 
receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration that purchases any of such Securities from it during the restricted period a confirmation or notice to substantially the following effect:
"The Securities covered hereby have not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and may not be offered and sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of the distribution of the Securities at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering and the closing date of the offering, except in either case in accordance with Regulation S (or Rule 144A if available) under the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meaning given to them in Regulation S."
Securities Act
Terms used in this Section 8 and not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in Regulation S.
(c) Each of the Initial Purchasers represents and warrants (as to itself only) that (i) it has not offered or sold and, prior to or during the period of six months from the issuance of the Securities, will not offer or sell the Securities to persons in the United Kingdom except to persons whose ordinary activities involve them in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments (as principal or agent) for the purposes of their businesses or otherwise in circumstances that do not constitute an offer to the public in the United Kingdom within the meaning of the Public Offers of Securities Regulations 1995, (ii) it has complied with and will comply with all applicable provisions of the Financial Services Act 1986 of Great Britain with respect to any action taken in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom and (iii) it has only issued or passed on and will only issue or pass on in the United Kingdom any document in connection with the issue and sale of the Securities to a person who is of the kind described in Article 11(3) of the Financial Services Act 1986 (Investment Advertisements) (Exemptions) Order 1996 (as amended) or is a person to whom the document may otherwise be lawfully issued or passed.
(d) Each of the Initial Purchasers represents and warrants (as to itself only) that it has not made and will not make an offer of the Securities to the public in any Member State of the European Economic Area that has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a ""), with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State (the ""), prior to the publication of a prospectus in relation to the Securities that has been approved by the competent authority in that Relevant Member State or, where appropriate, approved in another Relevant Member State and notified to the competent authority in that Relevant Member State, all in accordance with the Prospectus Directive, except that it may, with effect from and including the Relevant Implementation Date, make an offer of Securities to the public in that Relevant Member State at any time: (i) to legal entities that are authorized or regulated to operate in the financial markets or, if not so authorized or regulated, whose corporate purpose is solely to invest in securities; (ii) to any legal entity that has two or more of (1) an average of at least 250 employees during the last financial year; (2) a total balance sheet of more than 43,000,000 and (3) an annual net turnover of more than 50,000,000, as shown in its last annual or consolidated
Relevant Member State
Relevant Implementation Date
 
accounts; or (iii) in any other circumstances that do not require the publication by the Company or the Guarantors of a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive.
For purposes of this Section 8(d), the expression an "offer of Securities to the public" in relation to any Securities in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the Securities to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe for the Securities, as the same may be varied in that Relevant Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Relevant Member State and the expression "Prospectus Directive" means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State.
9. .
Indemnification and Contribution
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Initial Purchasers, the directors, officers, employees and agents of the Initial Purchasers, and each person who controls the Initial Purchasers within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Memorandum or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state in the Memorandum or any amendment or supplement thereto a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Company may otherwise have.
(b) Each Initial Purchaser severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Initial Purchaser, but only with reference to written information relating to such Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability, which any Initial Purchaser may otherwise have. The Company acknowledges that the statements set forth (i) in the last paragraph of the cover page regarding delivery of the Securities and (ii) under the heading "Plan of Distribution", (A) the sentences relating to concessions and reallowances and (B) in the paragraphs related to stabilization, syndicate covering transactions and penalty bids in the Memorandum constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers for inclusion in the Memorandum.
 
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 9 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 9, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); provided, however, that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest, (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
(d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 9 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company and the Initial Purchasers severally agree to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending same) (collectively "") to which the Company and one or more of the Initial Purchasers may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and by the Initial Purchasers on the other from the offering of the Securities; provided, however, that in no case shall any Initial Purchaser (except as may be provided in any agreement among the Initial Purchasers relating to the offering of the Securities) be responsible for any amount in excess of the discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Initial Purchaser hereunder. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company and the Initial Purchasers severally shall contribute in such proportion
Losses
 
as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Initial Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by it, and benefits received by the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total discounts and commissions. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the Company on the one hand or the Initial Purchasers on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 9, each person who controls an Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of an Initial Purchaser shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
10. . If any one or more Initial Purchasers shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Initial Purchasers shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names in hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining non-defaulting Initial Purchaser) the Securities which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase; provided, however, that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in hereto, the remaining Initial Purchasers shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Initial Purchasers do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Initial Purchaser or the Company. In the event of a default by any Initial Purchaser as set forth in this Section 10, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the nondefaulting Initial Purchasers shall determine in order that the required changes in the Registration Statement and the Memorandum or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Initial Purchaser of its liability, if any, to the Company and any nondefaulting Initial Purchaser for damages occasioned by its default hereunder.
Default by an Initial Purchaser
Schedule I
Schedule I
 
11. . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if at any time prior to such time (i) trading in the Company's Common Stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such Exchange, (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared either by Federal or New York State authorities or a material disruption in clearance or settlement systems through which transfers of securities of the Company are effected shall have occurred or (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war, or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by the Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
Termination
12. . The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the Initial Purchasers set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser or the Company or any of the officers, directors, employees, agents or controlling persons referred to in Section 9 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 7, 9 and 15 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
13. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., 60 Wall Street, New York, NY 10005, Attn: Debt Capital Markets (fax no.: (212) 797-2202), with a copy to the General Counsel (fax no.: (212) 797-4564) and to UBS Securities LLC, 677 Washington Blvd., Stamford, CT 06901, Attn: Fixed Income Syndicate (fax no.: (203) 719-0495); or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to Lennar Corporation, 700 N.W. 107th Avenue, Miami, Florida 33172, Attn: General Counsel, Mark Sustana (fax no.: (305) 227-7115).
Notices
14. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers, directors, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Section 9 hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
15. . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York.
Applicable Law
16. . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
17. . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
 
18. . The terms, which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
"" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City.
Business Day
"" shall mean the Company's Class A common stock, par value $.10 per share.
Class A Common Stock
"" shall mean the Company's Class B common stock, par value $.10 per share.
Class B Common Stock
"" shall mean the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto.
Execution Time
"" shall mean each subsidiary of the Company that as of the date of this Agreement is a "significant subsidiary" for purposes of Rule 1-02 of regulation S-X under the Act.
significant subsidiary
"" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Trust Indenture Act
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and the several Initial Purchasers.
 
 

Exhibit No. 10.4
 
 
This Registration Rights Agreement (this "") is made and entered into as of April 26, 2006, among LENNAR CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and the other entities that are listed on the signature pages hereof (collectively with any entity that in the future executes a supplemental indenture pursuant to which such entity agrees to guarantee the Notes (as hereinafter defined), the "" and, together with the Company, the ""), and DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., UBS SECURITIES LLC, BNP PARIBAS SECURITIES CORP., CALYON SECURITIES (USA) INC. and SUNTRUST CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. (each, an "" and, collectively, the "") for whom Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC are acting as representatives.
Agreement
Company
Guarantors
Issuers
Initial Purchaser
Initial Purchasers
This Agreement is entered into in connection with the Purchase Agreement, dated April 19, 2006, among the Company and the Initial Purchasers (the ""), which provides for, among other things, the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011 (the ""). The Notes are unconditionally guaranteed (the "") by each of the Guarantors. The Notes and the Guarantees are collectively referred to herein as the "". In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Issuers have agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement for the benefit of the Initial Purchasers and any subsequent holder or holders of the Securities. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the Initial Purchasers' obligation to purchase the Securities under the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Notes
Guarantees
Securities
The parties hereby agree as follows:
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
: See Section 4 hereof.
Additional Interest
: See Section 2(a) hereof.
Additional Notes
: See the last paragraph of Section 5 hereof.
Advice
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Agreement
: See Section 2 hereof.
Applicable Period
: Each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is a day on which banking institutions are open in New York, New York.
Business Day
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Company
: September 23, 2006; , , that with respect to any Shelf Registration Statement, the Effectiveness Date shall be the 75th day following the Filing Date with respect thereto.
Effectiveness Date
provided
however
: See Section 3(a) hereof.
Effectiveness Period
: See Section 4(b) hereof.
Event Date
: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
: See Section 2 hereof.
Exchange Notes
: See Section 2 hereof.
Exchange Offer
: See Section 2 hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
: (A) If no Exchange Offer Registration Statement has been filed by the Issuers pursuant to this Agreement, August 24, 2006; and (B) in each other case (which may be applicable notwithstanding the consummation of the Exchange Offer), the 30th day after the delivery of a Shelf Notice.
Filing Date
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Guarantees
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Guarantors
: Any holder of a Registrable Security or Registrable Securities.
Holder
: See Section 7(c) hereof.
Indemnified Person
: See Section 7(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person
: The Indenture, dated as of April 26, 2006, by and among the Issuers and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, pursuant to which the Notes are being issued, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Initial Purchasers
: See Section 3(a) hereof.
Initial Shelf Registration Statement
: See Section 5(m) hereof.
Inspectors
: April 26, 2006, the date of original issuance of the Securities.
Issue Date
: See Section 5(r) hereof.
NASD
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Notes
 
: The offering memorandum of the Company dated April 19, 2006, in respect of the offering of the Securities.
Offering Memorandum
: See Section 7(a) hereof.
Participant
: See Section 2(a) hereof.
Participating Broker-Dealer
: An individual, trustee, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, union, business association, firm or other legal entity.
Person
: See Section 2(b) hereof.
Private Exchange
: See Section 2(b) hereof.
Private Exchange Notes
: The prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, any prospectus subject to completion and a prospectus that includes any information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A promulgated under the Securities Act and any term sheet filed pursuant to Rule 434 under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, and all other amendments and supplements to the Prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.
Prospectus
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Purchase Agreement
: See Section 5(m) hereof.
Records
: Each Note upon its original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto, each Exchange Note as to which Section 2(c)(iv) hereof is applicable upon original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto and each Private Exchange Note upon original issuance thereof and at all times subsequent thereto, until the earliest to occur of (i) a Registration Statement (other than, with respect to any Exchange Note as to which Section 2(c)(iv) hereof is applicable, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) covering such Note, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note has been declared effective by the SEC and such Note, Exchange Note or such Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, has been disposed of in accordance with such effective Registration Statement, (ii) such Note has been exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer for an Exchange Note or Exchange Notes that may be resold (or, but for the status of such Holder as an affiliate of the Issuers under Rule 405, could be resold) without restriction under state and federal securities laws, (iii) such Note, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, ceases to be outstanding for purposes of the Indenture or (iv) such Note, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, may be resold without restriction pursuant to Rule 144(k) (as amended or replaced) under the Securities Act.
Registrable Notes
: Each Registrable Note and related guarantees.
Registrable Securities
 
: Any registration statement of the Issuers that covers any of the Securities, the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or the Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) filed with the SEC under the Securities Act, including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, all exhibits, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such registration statement.
Registration Statement
: Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144A) or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC providing for offers and sales of securities made in compliance therewith resulting in offers and sales by subsequent holders that are not affiliates of the issuer of such securities being free of the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act.
Rule 144
: Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144) or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 144A
: Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Rule 405
: Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 415
: The Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Securities
: The Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
: See Section 2(c) hereof.
Shelf Notice
: See Section 3(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement
: See Section 3(b) hereof.
Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement
: The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
TIA
: The trustee under the Indenture and the trustee (if any) under any indenture governing the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees).
Trustee
: A registration in which securities of one or more of the Issuers are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten registration or underwritten offering
 
(a) The Issuers shall file with the SEC, no later than the Filing Date, a Registration Statement (the "") on an appropriate registration form with respect to a registered offer (the "") to exchange any and all of the Registrable Securities for a like aggregate principal amount of notes of the Company, guaranteed by the Guarantors, that are identical in all material respects to the Securities, except that the Exchange Notes shall contain no restrictive legend thereon and no provision for payment of additional interest in the event of a registration default (the ""), and which are entitled to the benefits of the Indenture or a trust indenture which is identical in all material respects to the Indenture (other than such changes to the Indenture or any such identical trust indenture as are necessary to comply with the TIA) and which, in either case, has been qualified under the TIA. Interest on each Exchange Note will accrue (A) from the later of (1) the last interest payment date on which interest was paid on the Note surrendered, or (2) if the Note is surrendered for exchange on a date in a period which includes the record date for an interest payment date to occur on or after the date of the exchange and as to which interest will be paid, such interest payment date or (B) if no interest has been paid on that Note, from the Issue Date. The Exchange Offer shall comply with all applicable tender offer rules and regulations under the Exchange Act and other applicable laws. The Issuers shall use their reasonable best efforts to (x) cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act on or before the Effectiveness Date; (y) keep the Exchange Offer open for acceptance for not less than 30 days (or longer if required by applicable law) after the date that notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to Holders; and (z) consummate the Exchange Offer on or before November 22, 2006. If, after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is initially declared effective by the SEC, the Exchange Offer or the issuance of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) thereunder is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall be deemed not to have become effective for purposes of this Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
Exchange Offer
Exchange Notes
Each Holder that participates in the Exchange Offer will be required, as a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer, to represent to the Company in writing (which may be contained in the applicable letter of transmittal) (1) that any Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (2) that at the time of the consummation of the Exchange Offer such Holder will have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (3) that such Holder is not an "" (as defined in Rule 405 promulgated under the Securities Act) of any Issuer, (4) if the holder is not a broker-dealer, that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, the distribution of Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and (5) if the holder is a broker-dealer (a "") that it will receive the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) for its own account in exchange for Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, and that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees).
affiliate
Participating Broker-Dealer
Upon consummation of the Exchange Offer in accordance with this Section 2, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to apply, , solely with respect to
mutatis
mutandis
 
Registrable Securities that are Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) as to which Section 2(c)(iv) is applicable and Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) held by Participating Broker-Dealers, and the Issuers shall have no further obligation to register Registrable Securities (other than Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and other than in respect of any Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) as to which clause 2(c)(iv) hereof applies) pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
No securities other than the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement; provided, however that if the Company issues under the Indenture additional 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011 (and related guarantees) that are identical in all material respects to the Notes and have the same CUSIP number as the Notes (""), the Company may include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a like aggregate principal amount of notes of the Company, guaranteed by the Guarantors, that are identical in all material respects to the Additional Notes, except that such notes shall contain no restrictive legend thereon, provided further, however, that the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) as defined in that certain Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 26, 2006, by and among the Company, the guarantors named therein and the Initial Purchasers relating to the Company's 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016 may be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. The period of resale restrictions applicable to any Notes previously offered and sold in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act shall automatically be extended to the last day of the period of any resale restrictions imposed on such Additional Notes.
Additional Notes
(b) The Issuers shall include within the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a section entitled "Plan of Distribution," reasonably acceptable to the Initial Purchasers, which shall contain a summary statement of the positions taken or policies made by the staff of the SEC with respect to the potential "underwriter" status of any Participating Broker-Dealer that is the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of Exchange Notes received by such Participating Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, whether such positions or policies have been publicly disseminated by the staff of the SEC or such positions or policies represent the prevailing views of the staff of the SEC. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also expressly permit, to the extent permitted by applicable policies and regulations of the SEC, the use of the Prospectus by all Persons subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act with respect to the Exchange Notes, including, to the extent permitted by applicable policies and regulations of the SEC, all Participating Broker-Dealers, and include a statement describing the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Notes in compliance with the Securities Act.
The Issuers shall use their best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective and to amend and supplement the Prospectus contained therein in order to permit such Prospectus to be lawfully delivered by all Persons subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act with respect to the Exchange Notes for such period of time as is necessary to comply with applicable law in connection with any resale of the Exchange Notes covered thereby; , , that such period shall not exceed 180 days after such Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective (or such longer period if extended pursuant to the last paragraph of Section 5 hereof) (the "").
provided
however
Applicable Period
 
If, prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer, any Holder holds any Registrable Securities acquired by it that have, or that are reasonably likely to be determined to have, the status of an unsold allotment in an initial distribution, or any Holder is not entitled to participate in the Exchange Offer, the Issuers upon the request of any such Holder shall simultaneously with the delivery of the Exchange Notes in the Exchange Offer, issue and deliver to any such Holder, in exchange (the "") for such Registrable Securities held by any such Holder, a like principal amount of notes (the "") of the Company, guaranteed by the Guarantors, that are identical in all material respects to the Exchange Notes except for the placement of a restrictive legend on such Private Exchange Notes. The Private Exchange Notes shall be issued pursuant to the same indenture as the Exchange Notes and bear the same CUSIP number as the Exchange Notes.
Private Exchange
Private Exchange Notes
In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Issuers shall:
(i) mail, or cause to be mailed, to each Holder of record entitled to participate in the Exchange Offer a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
(ii) use their best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer open for acceptance for not less than 30 days after the date that notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to Holders (or longer if required by applicable law);
(iii) utilize the services of a depositary for the Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York;
(iv) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last business day on which the Exchange Offer shall remain open; and
(v) otherwise comply in all material respects with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Exchange Offer.
As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any, the Issuers shall:
(vi) accept for exchange all Registrable Securities that are validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any;
(vii) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Securities so accepted for exchange; and
(viii) cause the Trustee to authenticate and deliver promptly to each Holder of Securities that are accepted for exchange, Exchange Notes or Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, equal in principal amount to the Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
 
The Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and the Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) shall be issued under (i) the Indenture or (ii) an indenture identical in all material respects to the Indenture and which, in either case, has been qualified under the TIA or is exempt from such qualification and shall provide that the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) shall not be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture. The Indenture or such indenture shall provide that the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), the Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and the Securities shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class and that none of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), the Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or the Securities will have the right to vote or consent as a separate class on any matter.
(c) If, (i) because of any change in law or in currently prevailing interpretations by the SEC staff, the Issuers are not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not consummated by November 22, 2006, (iii) in certain circumstances, certain holders of Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) so request in writing to the Company, or (iv) in the case of any Holder that tenders Securities in response to the Exchange Offer, such Holder does not receive Exchange Notes on the date of the exchange that may be sold without restriction under state and federal securities laws (other than due solely to the status of such Holder as an affiliate of any of the Issuers within the meaning of the Securities Act), then in the case of each of clauses (i) to and including (iv) of this sentence, the Issuers shall (a) promptly deliver to the Holders and the Trustee written notice thereof (the "") and (b) at its sole expense and as promptly as practicable shall file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
Shelf Notice
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) a Filing Date or Effectiveness Date (or other date by which a filing is to be made or become effective) would fall on a day that is not a Business Day or (ii) the date by which the Exchange Offer is to be consummated would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, such Filing Date, Effectiveness Date (or other date by which a filing is to be made or become effective) or consummation date shall instead be the next succeeding Business Day.
 
If at any time a Shelf Notice is delivered as contemplated by Section 2(c) hereof, then:
(a) . The Issuers shall file with the SEC a Registration Statement for an offering to be made on a continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 covering all of the Registrable Securities not exchanged in the Exchange Offer, Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) as to which Section 2(c)(iv) is applicable (the ""). The Company shall use its best efforts to file with the SEC the Initial Shelf Registration Statement on or before the applicable Filing Date. The Initial Shelf Registration Statement shall be on Form S-1 or another appropriate form permitting registration of such Registrable Securities for resale by Holders in the manner or manners designated by them (including, without limitation, one or more underwritten offerings). The Issuers shall not permit any securities other than the Registrable Securities to be included in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement (as
Shelf Registration
Initial Shelf Registration Statement
 
defined below); provided, however that if the Company issues Additional Notes, the Company may include the Additional Notes in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement.
The Issuers shall use their best efforts to cause the Initial Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act on or before the Effectiveness Date and to keep the Initial Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective under the Securities Act until the date which is two years from the Issue Date (the ""), or such shorter period ending when (i) all Registrable Securities covered by the Initial Shelf Registration Statement have been sold in the manner set forth and as contemplated in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or (ii) a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement covering all of the Registrable Securities covered by and not sold under the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or an earlier Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective under the Securities Act; , , that the Effectiveness Period in respect of the Initial Shelf Registration Statement shall be extended to the extent required to permit dealers to comply with the applicable prospectus delivery requirements of Rule 174 under the Securities Act and as otherwise provided herein.
Effectiveness Period
provided
however
(b) . If the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective for any reason at any time during the Effectiveness Period (other than because of the sale of all of the securities registered thereunder), the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness thereof, and in any event shall within 30 days of such cessation of effectiveness amend the Initial Shelf Registration Statement in a manner to obtain the withdrawal of the order suspending the effectiveness thereof, or file an additional "shelf" Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 415 covering all of the Registrable Securities covered by and not sold under the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or an earlier Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement (each, a ""). If a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement is filed, the Company shall use its best efforts to cause the Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable after such filing and to keep such subsequent Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective for a period equal to the number of days in the Effectiveness Period less the aggregate number of days during which the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement was previously continuously effective. As used herein the term "" means the Initial Shelf Registration Statement and any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement.
Subsequent Shelf Registrations
Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement
Shelf Registration Statement
(c) . The Issuers shall promptly supplement and amend any Shelf Registration Statement if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used for such Shelf Registration Statement, if required by the Securities Act, or if reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities (or their counsel) covered by such Registration Statement or by any underwriter of such Registrable Securities.
Supplements and Amendments
 
(a) The Issuers and the Initial Purchasers agree that the Holders will suffer damages if the Issuers fail to fulfill their obligations under Section 2 or Section 3 hereof and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages with precision. Accordingly, the Issuers agree to pay, as liquidated damages, additional interest on the Notes ("") under the circumstances and to the extent set forth below (each of which shall be given independent effect):
Additional Interest
(i) if (A) neither the Exchange Offer Registration Statement nor the Initial Shelf Registration Statement has been filed with the SEC on or before the applicable Filing Date or (B) notwithstanding that the Issuers have consummated or will consummate the Exchange Offer, the Issuers are required to file a Shelf Registration Statement and such Shelf Registration Statement has not been filed with the SEC on or before the Filing Date applicable thereto, then, commencing on the day after any such Filing Date, Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days immediately following each such Filing Date, and such Additional Interest rate shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum at the beginning of each subsequent 90-day period; or
(ii) if (A) neither the Exchange Offer Registration Statement nor the Initial Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective by the SEC on or before the applicable Effectiveness Date or (B) notwithstanding that the Issuers have consummated or will consummate the Exchange Offer, the Issuers are required to file a Shelf Registration Statement and such Shelf Registration Statement has not been declared effective by the SEC on or before the applicable Effectiveness Date with respect to such Shelf Registration Statement, then, commencing on the day after such Effectiveness Date, Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days immediately following the day after such Effectiveness Date, and such Additional Interest rate shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum at the beginning of each subsequent 90-day period; or
(iii) if (A) the Issuers have not exchanged Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) for all Registrable Securities validly tendered in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer on or before November 22, 2006 or (B) if applicable, a Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective and such Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective at any time during the Effectiveness Period, then, Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days commencing on (x) November 22, 2006, in the case of (A) above, or (y) the day such Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective in the case of (B) above, and such Additional Interest rate shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum at the beginning of each such subsequent 90-day period;
 
, , that Additional Interest on the Notes may not under any circumstance accrue under more than one of the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Section 4 and the rate at which Additional Interest accrues on the Notes as a result of the provisions of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Section 4 may not exceed in the aggregate 1.0% per annum; , that (1) upon the filing of the applicable Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the applicable Shelf Registration Statement as required hereunder (in the case of clause (i) of this Section 4), (2) upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the applicable Shelf Registration Statement as required hereunder (in the case of clause (ii) of this Section 4), or (3) upon the exchange of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) for all Securities tendered (in the case of clause (iii)(A) of this Section 4), or upon the effectiveness of a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement in the case of Shelf Registration Statement which had ceased to remain effective (in the case of clause (iii)(B) of this Section 4), Additional Interest on the Registrable Notes as a result of such clause (or the relevant subclause thereof), as the case may be, shall cease to accrue.
provided
however
provided further
(b) The Issuers shall notify the Trustee within three business days after each and every date on which an event occurs in respect of which Additional Interest is required to be paid (an ""), which notice shall also be at least three business days prior to the date of any payment to be made in accordance with the following sentence. Any amounts of Additional Interest due pursuant to (a)(i), (a)(ii) or (a)(iii) of this Section 4 will be payable in cash simultaneously with, and to the same persons entitled to receive, stated interest on the Notes, commencing with the first such payment of interest occurring after any such Additional Interest commences to accrue. The amount of Additional Interest payable with respect to Registrable Notes will be determined by multiplying the applicable Additional Interest rate by the principal amount of the Registrable Notes, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days such Additional Interest rate was applicable during such period (determined on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months and, in the case of a partial month, the actual number of days elapsed), and the denominator of which is 360.
Event Date
 
In connection with the filing of any Registration Statement pursuant to Sections 2 or 3 hereof, the Issuers shall effect such registrations to permit the sale of the securities covered thereby in accordance with the intended method or methods of disposition thereof, and pursuant thereto and in connection with any Registration Statement filed by the Issuers hereunder each of the Issuers shall:
(a) Prepare and file with the SEC before the applicable Filing Date, a Registration Statement or Registration Statements as prescribed by Sections 2 or 3 hereof, and use its best efforts to cause each such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective as provided herein; , , that, if (1) such filing is pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period relating thereto, before filing any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, the Issuers shall furnish to and afford the Holders of the Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement or each such Participating
provided
however
 
Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel and the managing underwriters, if any, a reasonable opportunity to review copies of all such documents (including copies of any documents to be incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits thereto) proposed to be filed (in each case at least five days prior to such filing, or such later date as is reasonable under the circumstances). The Issuers shall not file any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto if the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement, or any such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel, or the managing underwriters, if any, shall reasonably object.
(b) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Shelf Registration Statement or Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as the case may be, as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective for the Effectiveness Period or the Applicable Period, as the case may be; cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any Prospectus supplement required by applicable law, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) promulgated under the Securities Act; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act applicable to each of them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement as so amended or in such Prospectus as so supplemented and with respect to the subsequent resale of any securities being sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer covered by any such Prospectus. The Issuers shall be deemed not to have used their best efforts to keep a Registration Statement effective during the Effectiveness Period or the Applicable Period, as the case may be, relating thereto, if any of the Issuers voluntarily takes any action that would result in selling Holders of the Registrable Securities covered thereby or Participating Broker-Dealers seeking to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) not being able to sell such Registrable Securities or such Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during that period unless such action is required by applicable law or permitted by this Agreement.
(c) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period relating thereto from whom any of the Issuers has received written notice that it will be a Participating Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, notify the selling Holders of Registrable Securities, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel and the managing underwriters, if any, promptly (but in any event within one day), and confirm such notice in writing, (i) when a Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to a Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective under the Securities Act (including in such notice a written statement that any Holder may, upon request, obtain, at the sole expense of the Issuers, one conformed copy of such Registration Statement or post-effective amendment including financial statements and schedules, documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference and exhibits), (ii) of the issuance by the SEC of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iii) if at any time when a prospectus is required by the Securities Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Registrable Securities or resales of Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) by Participating Broker-Dealers, the representations and warranties of the Issuers
 
contained in any agreement (including any underwriting agreement) contemplated by Section 5(l) hereof cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (iv) of the receipt by any of the Issuers of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of a Registration Statement or any of the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer for offer or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, (v) of the happening of any event, the existence of any condition or any information becoming known that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in or amendments or supplements to such Registration Statement, Prospectus or documents so that, in the case of the Registration Statement, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and that in the case of the Prospectus, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (vi) of the Issuers' determination that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate.
(d) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or suspending the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer, for sale in any jurisdiction, and, if any such order is issued, to use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any such order at the earliest possible moment.
(e) If a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 and if requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters (if any), the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold in connection with an underwritten offering or any Participating Broker-Dealer, (i) as promptly as practicable incorporate in a prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information as the managing underwriter or underwriters (if any), such Holders, any Participating Broker-Dealer or counsel for any of them reasonably request to be included therein, (ii) make all required filings of such prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Company has received notification of the matters to be incorporated in such prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment, and (iii) supplement or make amendments to such Registration Statement.
(f) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, furnish to each selling Holder of Registrable Securities and to each such Participating Broker-Dealer who so requests and to their respective counsel and each managing underwriter, if any, at
 
the sole expense of the Issuers, one conformed copy of the Registration Statement or Registration Statements and each post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, and, if requested, all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits.
(g) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, deliver to each selling Holder of Registrable Securities, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their respective counsel, and the underwriters, if any, at the sole expense of the Issuers, as many copies of the Prospectus or Prospectuses (including each form of preliminary prospectus) and each amendment or supplement thereto and any documents incorporated by reference therein as such Persons may reasonably request; and, subject to the last paragraph of this Section 5, the Issuers hereby consent to the use of such Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Securities or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, and the underwriters or agents, if any, and dealers, if any, in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by, or the sale by Participating Broker-Dealers of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) pursuant to, such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto.
(h) Prior to any public offering of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or any delivery of a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, use its best efforts to register or qualify, and to cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Securities or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any selling Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer, or the managing underwriter or underwriters reasonably request in writing; , , that where Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) held by Participating Broker-Dealers or Registrable Securities are offered other than through an underwritten offering, the Issuers agree to cause their counsel to perform Blue Sky investigations and file registrations and qualifications required to be filed pursuant to this Section 5(h), keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be kept effective and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) held by Participating Broker-Dealers or the Registrable Securities covered by the applicable Registration Statement; , , that none of the Issuers shall be required to (A) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified, (B) take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject or (C) subject itself to taxation in excess of a nominal dollar amount in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
however
provided
however
(i) If a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Securities and the managing underwriter or
 
underwriters, if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Notes to be sold, which certificates shall not bear any restrictive legends and shall be in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company; and enable such Registrable Notes to be in such denominations permitted by the Indenture and registered in such names as the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, or Holders may request, provided, however, that the Registrable Notes are also transferable by delivery through means other than on the records of the Depository Trust Company or another clearing agency, in which case such preparation and delivery of certificates representing the Registrable Notes shall not be required.
(j) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by paragraph 5(c)(v) or 5(c)(vi) hereof, as promptly as practicable prepare and (subject to Section 5(a) hereof) file with the SEC, at the sole expense of the Issuers, a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference, or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities being sold thereunder or to the purchasers of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to whom such Prospectus will be delivered by a Participating Broker-Dealer, any such Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(k) Prior to the effective date of the first Registration Statement relating to the Registrable Securities, (i) provide the Trustee with certificates for the Registrable Notes in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and (ii) provide a CUSIP number for the Registrable Notes.
(l) In connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, enter into an underwriting agreement which is customary in underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Securities in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Issuers and take all such other actions as are reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of such Registrable Securities and, in such connection, (i) make such representations and warranties to, and covenants with, the underwriters with respect to the business of the Issuers (including any acquired business, properties or entity, if applicable) and the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the documents, if any, incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, in each case, as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Securities, and confirm the same in writing if and when requested in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Issuers; (ii) obtain the written opinions of counsel to the Issuers and written updates thereof in form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters, addressed to the underwriters covering the matters customarily covered in opinions reasonably requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters; (iii) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof in
 
form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters from the independent certified public accountants of the Issuers (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of the Issuers, or of any business or entity acquired by the Issuers for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement), addressed to each of the underwriters, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Securities and such other matters as are reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters as permitted by the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72, as amended by the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 76; and (iv) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, the same shall contain indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable to the sellers and underwriters, if any, than those set forth in Section 7 hereof (or such other provisions and procedures acceptable to Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement and the managing underwriter or underwriters or agents, if any). The above shall be done at each closing under such underwriting agreement, or as and to the extent required thereunder.
(m) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, make available for inspection by any selling Holder of such Registrable Securities being sold, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, any underwriter participating in any such disposition of Registrable Securities, if any, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by any such selling Holder or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, or underwriter (collectively, the ""), at the offices where normally kept, during reasonable business hours, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and instruments of the Issuers and subsidiaries of the Issuers (collectively, the "") as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise any applicable due diligence responsibilities, and cause the officers, directors and employees of the Issuers and any of their respective subsidiaries to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such Registration Statement and Prospectus. Each Inspector shall agree in writing that it will keep the Records confidential and that it will not disclose any of the Records that any of the Issuers determines, in good faith, to be confidential and notifies the Inspectors in writing are confidential unless (i) the disclosure of such Records is necessary to avoid or correct a material misstatement or material omission in such Registration Statement or Prospectus, (ii) the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction, or (iii) the information in such Records has been made generally available to the public; , , that prior notice shall be provided as soon as practicable to any of the Issuers of the potential disclosure of any information by such Inspector pursuant to clauses (i) or (ii) of this sentence to permit the Issuers to obtain a protective order (or waive the provisions of this paragraph (m)) and that such Inspector shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information (if practicable) to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of the Holder or any Inspector. If, in the course of performing due diligence, any Inspector becomes aware of material non public information about the Company and its subsidiaries, the Inspector will not, and will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that anyone to whom the
Inspectors
Records
provided
however
 
Inspector discloses the material non public information will not, trade in any securities of the Company until the information becomes public (whether through inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement or Exchange Offer Registration Statement or otherwise) or the information ceases to be material.
(n) Provide an indenture trustee for the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, and cause the Indenture or the trust indenture provided for in Section 2(a) hereof, as the case may be, to be qualified under the TIA not later than the effective date of the first Registration Statement relating to the Registrable Securities; and in connection therewith, cooperate with the trustee under any such indenture and the Holders of the Registrable Securities, to effect such changes to such indenture as may be required for such indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA; and execute, and use their best efforts to cause such trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable such indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner.
(o) Comply in all material respects with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make generally available to its securityholders with regard to any applicable Registration Statement, a consolidated earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the Securities Act) no later than 45 days after the end of any fiscal quarter (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year) (i) commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Registrable Securities are sold to underwriters in a firm commitment or best efforts underwritten offering and (ii) if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of the Company after the effective date of a Registration Statement, which statements shall cover said 12-month periods.
(p) Upon consummation of the Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange, obtain an opinion of counsel to the Company, in a form customary for underwritten transactions, addressed to the Trustee for the benefit of all Holders of Registrable Securities participating in the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange, as the case may be, that the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, and the related indenture constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with their respective terms, subject to customary exceptions and qualifications.
(q) If the Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Registrable Securities by Holders to the Company (or to such other Person as directed by the Issuers) to be exchanged for Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, the Issuers shall mark, or cause to be marked, on such Registrable Notes that such Registrable Notes are being canceled in exchange for Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be; in no event shall such Registrable Notes be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
(r) Cooperate with each seller of Registrable Securities covered by any Registration Statement and each underwriter, if any, participating in the disposition of such
 
Registrable Securities and their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "").
NASD
(s) Use its best efforts to take all other steps reasonably necessary to effect the registration of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and/or Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement contemplated hereby.
The Issuers may require each seller of Registrable Securities as to which any registration is being effected to furnish to the Issuers such information regarding such seller and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as the Issuers may, from time to time, reasonably request. The Issuers may exclude from such registration the Registrable Securities of any seller so long as such seller fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request. Each seller as to which any Shelf Registration is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Issuers all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Issuers by such seller not materially misleading.
If any Registration Statement refers to any Holder by name or otherwise as the holder of any securities of the Company, then such Holder shall have the right to require (i) the insertion therein of language, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Holder, to the effect that the holding by such Holder of such securities is not to be construed as a recommendation by such Holder of the investment quality of the securities covered thereby and that such holding does not imply that such Holder will assist in meeting any future financial requirements of the Company, or (ii) in the event that such reference to such Holder by name or otherwise is not required by the Securities Act or any similar federal statute then in force, the deletion of the reference to such Holder in any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement filed or prepared subsequent to the time that such reference ceases to be required.
Each Holder of Registrable Securities and each Participating Broker-Dealer agrees by its acquisition of such Registrable Securities or of Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, that, upon actual receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 5(c)(ii), 5(c)(iv), 5(c)(v), or 5(c)(vi) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of such Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement or Prospectus or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, until such Holder's or Participating Broker-Dealer's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 5(j) hereof, or until it is advised in writing (an "") by the Issuers that the use of the applicable Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any amendments or supplements thereto. In the event that the Issuers shall give any such notice, the Applicable Period shall be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of each such notice to and including the date when each seller of Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, shall have received (x) the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 5(j) hereof or (y) an Advice with respect to said notice.
Advice
 
All fees and expenses incident to the performance of or compliance with this Agreement by the Issuers (other than any underwriting discounts or commissions) shall be borne by the Company whether or not the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any Shelf Registration Statement is filed or becomes effective or the Exchange Offer is consummated, including, without limitation, (i) all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, (A) fees with respect to filings required to be made with the NASD in connection with an underwritten offering and (B) reasonable fees and expenses of compliance with state securities or Blue Sky laws (including, without limitation, fees and disbursements of counsel in connection with Blue Sky qualifications of the Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and determination of the eligibility of the Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) for investment under the laws of the jurisdictions (x) where the holders of Registrable Securities are located, in the case of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), or (y) as provided in Section 5(h) hereof, in the case of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period)), (ii) printing expenses, including, without limitation, expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and of printing prospectuses if the printing of prospectuses is requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in any Registration Statement or in respect of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period, as the case may be, (iii) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses, (iv) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Issuers and reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm of special counsel for the sellers of Registrable Securities and any Participating Broker Dealers, (v) fees and disbursements of all independent certified public accountants referred to in Section 5(l)(iii) hereof (including, without limitation, the expenses of any special audit and "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance), (vi) Securities Act liability insurance, if the Issuers desire such insurance, (vii) fees and expenses of all other Persons retained by the Issuers, (viii) internal expenses of the Issuers (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of officers and employees of the Issuers performing legal or accounting duties), (ix) the expense of any annual audit, (x) any fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the securities to be registered on any securities exchange, and the obtaining of a rating of the securities, in each case, if applicable, and (xi) the expenses relating to printing, word processing and distributing all Registration Statements, underwriting agreements, indentures and any other documents necessary in order to comply with this Agreement.
 
(a) Each of the Issuers agree, jointly and severally, to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Registrable Securities and each Participating Broker-Dealer selling Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, the affiliates, officers, directors, representatives, employees and agents of each such Person, and each Person, if any, who controls any such Person within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, a ""), from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, judgments, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, the reasonable legal fees and other expenses actually incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted) caused by, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement
Participant
 
or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if any of the Issuers shall have made any amendments or supplements thereto) or any preliminary prospectus, or caused by, arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the case of the Prospectus in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Participant, any underwriter, or the manner in which securities are to be distributed, furnished to the Issuers in writing by such Participant or an underwriter expressly for use therein.
except
(b) Each Participant agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Issuers, their respective affiliates, officers, directors, representatives, employees and agents and each Person who controls the Issuers within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent (but on a several, and not joint, basis) as the foregoing indemnity from the Issuers to each Participant, but only with reference to information relating to such Participant or the manner in which securities are to be distributed by such Participant or someone acting on such Participant's behalf, furnished to the Issuers in writing by such Participant expressly for use in any Registration Statement or Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, or any preliminary prospectus. The liability of any Participant under this paragraph shall in no event exceed the proceeds received by such Participant from sales of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) giving rise to such obligations.
(c) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either of the two preceding paragraphs, such Person (the "") shall promptly notify the Persons against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing, and the Indemnifying Persons, upon request of the Indemnified Person, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others the Indemnifying Persons may reasonably designate (which may include the Indemnifying Persons, unless representation of the Indemnifying Persons by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them) in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses actually incurred by such counsel related to such proceeding; , , that the failure to so notify the Indemnifying Persons (i) will not relieve them from any liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent such failure results in the forfeiture by an Indemnifying Person of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve any Indemnifying Person from any obligations to any Indemnified Person other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) above. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Persons and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary, (ii) the Indemnifying Persons shall have failed within a reasonable period of time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person or (iii) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both any Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person or any affiliate thereof and
Indemnified Person
Indemnifying Persons
provided
however
 
representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that, unless there exists a conflict among the Indemnified Persons, the Indemnifying Persons shall not, in connection with such proceeding or separate but substantially similar related proceeding in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed promptly as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for the Participants against whom a suit, action, proceeding, claim or demand is brought or asserted and control Persons of such Participants shall be designated in writing by Participants who sold a majority in interest of Registrable Securities and Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) sold by all such Participants, and any such separate firm for the Issuers, their affiliates, officers, directors, representatives, employees and agents and such control Persons of the Issuers shall be designated in writing by the Issuers.
The Indemnifying Persons shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without their prior written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final non-appealable judgment for the plaintiff for which any Indemnified Persons are entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement, each of the Indemnifying Persons agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Persons, effect any settlement or compromise of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party, or indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional written release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include any statement as to an admission of fault, culpability or failure to act by or on behalf of such Indemnified Person.
(d) If the indemnification provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Section 7 is for any reason unavailable to, or insufficient to hold harmless, an Indemnified Person in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraphs, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder and in order to provide for just and equitable contribution, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Indemnifying Person or Persons on the one hand and the Indemnified Person or Persons on the other from the applicable offering of Registrable or Exchanged Notes or (ii) if the allocation provided by the foregoing clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Indemnifying Person or Persons on the one hand and the Indemnified Person or Persons on the other in connection with the statements or omissions or alleged statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or such Participant or such other Indemnified Person, as the case may be, on the other, the parties' relative intent,
 
knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission, and any other equitable considerations appropriate in the circumstances.
(e) The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by allocation (even if the Participants were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages, judgments, liabilities and expenses referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any reasonable legal or other expenses actually incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no event shall a Participant be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which proceeds received by such Participant from sales of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, exceeds the amount of any damages that such Participant has otherwise been required to pay or has paid by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of a fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
pro
rata
(f) Any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses for which an indemnified party is entitled to indemnification or contribution under this Section 7 shall be paid by the Indemnifying Person to the Indemnified Person as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are incurred. The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section 7 and the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in this Agreement shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or any person who controls a Holder, or by the Company, its directors, officers, employees or agents or any person controlling any of the Issuers, and (ii) any termination of this Agreement.
(g) The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section 7 will be in addition to any liability which the Indemnifying Persons may otherwise have to the Indemnified Persons referred to above.
 
Each of the Issuers covenants and agrees that it will file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder in a timely manner in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and, if at any time such Issuer is not required to file such reports, such Issuer will, upon the request of any Holder or beneficial owner of Registrable Securities, make available such information as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Company further covenants and agrees, for so long as any Registrable Securities remain outstanding, that it will take such further action as any Holder of Registrable Securities may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitations of the exemptions provided by (a) Rule 144(k) and Rule 144A under the Securities
 
Act, as such Rules may be amended from time to time, or (b) any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
 
If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will manage the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuers.
No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes in a timely manner all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other customary documents required by the Company or the underwriter in connection with such underwriting arrangements.
 
(a) . The Issuers have not, as of the date hereof, and the Issuers shall not, after the date of this Agreement, enter into any agreement with respect to any of their securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Issuers' other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements. The Issuers will not enter into any agreement with respect to any of its securities which will grant to any Person piggyback registration rights with respect to any Registration Statement; provided, however that the Company may enter into an agreement in connection with the issuance of Additional Notes which will grant the holders of the Additional Notes the right to have them included in a Registration Statement.
No Inconsistent Agreements
(b) . The Issuers shall not, directly or indirectly, take any action with respect to the Registrable Securities as a class that would adversely affect the ability of the Holders of Registrable Securities to include such Registrable Securities in a registration undertaken pursuant to this Agreement.
Adjustments Affecting Registrable Securities
(c) . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, otherwise than with the prior written consent of (I) the Company and (II)(A) the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Registrable Securities and (B) if the amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent would adversely affect the Participating Broker-Dealers, the Participating Broker-Dealers holding not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) held by all Participating Broker-Dealers; , , that Section 7 and this Section 10(c) may not be amended, modified or supplemented without the
Amendments and Waivers
provided
however
 
prior written consent of each Holder and each Participating Broker-Dealer (including any person who was a Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, disposed of pursuant to any Registration Statement) affected by any such amendment, modification or supplement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to depart from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders of Registrable Securities whose securities are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect, impair, limit or compromise the rights of other Holders of Registrable Securities may be given by Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold pursuant to such Registration Statement.
(d) . All notices and other communications (including, without limitation, any notices or other communications to the Trustee) provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, next-day air courier or facsimile:
Notices
(i) if to a Holder of the Registrable Securities or any Participating Broker-Dealer, at the most current address of such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, set forth on the records of the registrar under the Indenture, with a copy in like manner to the Initial Purchasers as follows:
UBS Securities LLC
677 Washington Blvd.
Stamford, CT 06901
Attention:         Fixed Income Syndicate
with a copy to:
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP
787 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York, 10019
Attention:         John S. D'Alimonte, Esq.
                         William N. Dye, Esq.
(ii) if to the Company, at the address as follows:
700 N.W. 107th Avenue
Miami, Florida 33172
Attention:         General Counsel, Mark Sustana
with a copy to:
Clifford Chance US LLP
31 West 52
nd
Street
New York, New York 10019
Attention:             David W. Bernstein, Esq.
 
(iii) if to the Initial Purchasers, at the address specified in Section 10(d)(i).
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: when delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; one business day after being timely delivered to a next-day air courier; and when receipt is acknowledged by the addressee, if sent by facsimile.
Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee under an indenture at the address and in the manner specified in the indenture.
(e) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties hereto, the Holders and the Participating Broker-Dealers.
Successors and Assigns
(f) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original (including facsimile signatures) and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
(g) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
(h)
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AS APPLIED TO CONTRACTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY WITHIN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW THAT WOULD APPLY THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES TO SUBMIT TO THE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY OR OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT.
Governing Law
(i) . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and the parties hereto shall use their best efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction. It is hereby stipulated and declared to be the intention of the parties that they would have executed the remaining terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions without including any of such that may be hereafter declared invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable.
Severability
(j) . Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Issuers or their respective affiliates (as such term is defined in
Securities Held by the Issuers or their Affiliates
 
Rule 405 under the Securities Act) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
(k) . Holders of Registrable Securities and Participating Broker-Dealers are intended third-party beneficiaries of this Agreement, and this Agreement may be enforced by such Persons.
Third-Party Beneficiaries
(l) . This Agreement, together with the Purchase Agreement and the Indenture, is intended by the parties as a final and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and therein and any and all prior oral or written agreements, representations, or warranties, contracts, understandings, correspondence, conversations and memoranda between the Holders on the one hand and the Issuers on the other, or between or among any agents, representatives, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, predecessors in interest or successors in interest with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof are merged herein and replaced hereby.
Entire Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
Acme Water Supply & Management Company
Aquaterra Utilities, Inc.
Asbury Woods L.L.C.
Avalon-Sienna III, L.L.C.
Bayhome USH, Inc.
Bella Oaks L.L.C.
Bickford Holdings, LLC
Boca Greens, Inc.
Boca Isles South Club, Inc.
Boggy Creek USH, Inc.
Bramalea California Properties, Inc.
Bramalea California Realty, Inc.
Bramalea California, Inc.
Brazoria County LP, Inc.
Builders Acquisition Corp.
Builders LP, Inc.
Cambria L.L.C.
Cantera Village L.L.C.
Cary Woods L.L.C.
Claremont Ridge L.L.C.
Claridge Estates L.L.C.
Clodine-Bellaire LP, Inc.
Club Pembroke Isles, Inc.
Club Tampa Palms, Inc.
Colonial Heritage LLC
Concord at Meadowbrook L.L.C.
Concord at Pheasant Run Trails L.L.C.
Concord at Ravenna L.L.C.
Concord City Centre L.L.C.
Concord Hills, Inc.
Concord Homes, Inc.
Concord Lake, Inc.
Concord Mills Estates L.L.C.
Concord Oaks, Inc.
Concord Park, Inc.
Concord Pointe, Inc.
Coto de Caza, Ltd.
Country Club Development at the Fort, LLC
Coventry L.L.C.
DCA Homes NJ Realty, Inc.
DCA of Lake Worth, Inc.
DCA of New Jersey, Inc.
E.M.J.V. Corp.
Enclave Land, L.L.C.
ERMLOE, LLC
F.P. Construction Corp.
Fidelity Guaranty and Acceptance Corporation
Fortress Holding  Virginia, LLC
Fortress Illinois, LLC
Fortress Management, Inc.
Fortress Missouri, LLC
Fortress Mortgage, Inc.
Fortress Pennsylvania Realty, Inc.
Fortress Pennsylvania, LLC
Fortress-Florida, Inc.
Fox-Maple Associates, LLC
Foxwood L.L.C.
Gateway Commons, L.L.C.
Genesee Communities I, Inc.
Genesee Communities II, LLC
Genesee Communities III, Inc.
Genesee Communities IV, LLC
Genesee Communities IX, LLC
Genesee Communities V, LLC
Genesee Communities VI, LLC
Genesee Communities VII, LLC
Genesee Communities VIII, LLC
Genesee Venture, LLC
Glenview Reserve, LLC
Grand Isle Club, Inc.
Greenfield/Waterbury L.L.C.
Greystone Construction, Inc.
Greystone Homes of Nevada, Inc.
Greystone Homes, Inc.
Greystone Nevada, LLC
Hallston Burbank LLC
Harris County LP, Inc.
Haverton L.L.C.
Heathcote Commons LLC
Heritage Harbour Realty, Inc.
Heritage Housing Group, Inc.
Heritage USH, Inc.
Home Buyer's Advantage Realty, Inc.
Homecraft Corporation
Imperial Homes Corporation
Impressions L.L.C.
Inactive Corporations, Inc.
Kings Lake TH, LLC
Kings Ridge Golf Corporation
Kings Ridge Recreation Corporation
Kings Wood Development Corporation
Landmark Homes, Inc.
Laureate Homes of Arizona, Inc.
Legacy Homes, Inc.
Legends Club, Inc.
Legends Golf Club, Inc.
LENH I, LLC
Lennar Acquisition Corp. II
Lennar Americanos Douglas, LLC
Lennar Associates Management Holding Company
Lennar Associates Management, LLC
Lennar Aviation, Inc.
Lennar Carolinas, LLC
Lennar Central Region Sweep, Inc.
Lennar Chicago, Inc.
Lennar Communities Development, Inc.
Lennar Communities Nevada, LLC
Lennar Communities of Chicago, LLC
Lennar Communities of Florida, Inc.
Lennar Communities of South Florida, Inc.
Lennar Communities, Inc.
Lennar Construction, Inc.
Lennar Coto Holdings, L.L.C.
Lennar Developers, Inc.
Lennar Developers, Inc. II
Lennar Developers, Inc. III
Lennar Family of Builders GP, Inc.
Lennar Family of Builders Limited Partnership
Lennar Financial Services, LLC
Lennar Fresno, Inc.
Lennar Funding, LLC
Lennar Hingham Holdings, LLC
Lennar Hingham JV, LLC
Lennar Homes Holding Corp.
Lennar Homes of Arizona, Inc.
Lennar Homes of California, Inc.
Lennar Homes of Texas Land and Construction, Ltd.
Lennar Homes of Texas Sales and Marketing, Ltd.
Lennar Homes, Inc.
Lennar Houston Land, LLC
Lennar Imperial Holdings Limited Partnership
Lennar La Paz Limited, Inc.
Lennar La Paz, Inc.
Lennar Land Partners Sub II, Inc.
Lennar Land Partners Sub, Inc.
Lennar Long Beach Promenade Partners, LLC
Lennar Massachusetts Properties, Inc.
Lennar Meridian Hills Partners, LLC
Lennar Military Housing, Inc.
Lennar Nevada, Inc.
Lennar New Jersey Properties, Inc.
Lennar Northeast Properties, Inc.
Lennar Northland I, Inc.
Lennar Northland II, Inc.
Lennar Northland III, Inc.
Lennar Northland IV, Inc.
Lennar Northland V, Inc.
Lennar Northland VI, Inc.
Lennar Pacific Properties Management, Inc.
Lennar Pacific Properties, Inc.
Lennar Pacific, Inc.
Lennar Pacific, L.P.
Lennar PNW, Inc.
Lennar Port Imperial South Building 10, LLC
Lennar Port Imperial South Building 12, LLC
Lennar Port Imperial South, LLC
Lennar Realty, Inc.
Lennar Renaissance, Inc.
Lennar Reno, LLC
Lennar Riverside West Holdings, LLC
Lennar Riverside West Limited Partnership
Lennar Riverside West Urban Renewal Company, L.L.C.
Lennar Sacramento, Inc.
Lennar Sales Corp.
Lennar San Jose Holdings, Inc.
Lennar Seaport Partners, LLC
Lennar Southland I, Inc.
Lennar Southland II, Inc.
Lennar Southland III, Inc.
Lennar Southwest Holding Corp.
Lennar Texas Holding Company
Lennar Trading Company, LP
Lennar-Kings Lake, Inc.
Lennar-Lantana Boatyard, Inc.
Lennar.Com, Inc.
Lennarstone Marketing Group, LLC
LFS Holding Company, LLC
LH Eastwind, LLC
LHI Renaissance, LLC
LLT, LLC
LN, L.L.C.
Long Point Development Corporation
Lorton Station, LLC
Lucerne Merged Condominiums, Inc.
M.A.P. Builders, Inc.
Madrona Village L.L.C.
Marlborough Development Corporation
Mid-County Utilities, Inc.
Midland Housing Industries Corp.
Midland Investment Corporation
Mission Viejo 12S Venture, LP
Mission Viejo Holdings, Inc.
New Home Brokerage, Inc.
North County Land Company, LLC
Northbridge L.L.C.
Northeastern Properties LP, Inc.
Northern Land Company, LLC
NuHome Designs, L.L.C.
Oceanpointe Development Corporation
Orrin Thompson Construction Company
Orrin Thompson Homes Corp.
Paparone Construction Co.
Parc Chestnut L.L.C.
Parkside Estates L.L.C.
Placer Vineyards, LLC
Providence Glen L.L.C.
Rancho Summit, LLC
Rivenhome Corporation
Riviera Land Corp.
RRKTG Lumber, LLC
Rutenberg Homes of Texas, Inc.
Rutenberg Homes, Inc.
S. Florida Construction II, LLC
S. Florida Construction III, LLC
S. Florida Construction, LLC
SEA Joint Venture, LLC
SFHR Management, L.L.C.
Silver Lakes-Gateway Clubhouse, Inc.
Sonoma L.L.C.
South Park Development, LLC
Spanish Springs Development, LLC
Stoney Corporation
Stoneybrook Golf Club, Inc.
Strategic Cable Technologies, L.P.
Strategic Holdings, Inc.
Strategic Technologies Communications of California, Inc.
Strategic Technologies, Inc.
Summerway Investment Corp.
Summerwood, L.L.C.
Summit Acquisition Corp.
Summit Enclave, L.L.C.
Summit Land, L.L.C.
Summit Ridge 23, L.L.C.
Summit Townes, L.L.C.
Summit-Meadowbrook, L.L.C.
Summit-Reserve, L.L.C.
Sunstar Enterprises, LLC
The Club at Stoneybrook, Inc.
The Courts of Indian Creek L.L.C.
The Fortress Group, Inc.
The Grande By Lennar Builders, Inc.
The Sexton L.L.C.
U.S. Home Associates Management, Inc.
U.S. Home Corporation
U.S. Home of Arizona Construction Co.
U.S. Home of West Virginia, Inc.
U.S. Home Realty Corporation
U.S. Home Realty, Inc.
U.S. Home Southwest Holding Corp.
U.S.H. Realty, Inc.
U.S.H. Corporation of New York
U.S.H. Los Prados, Inc.
University Community Partners, LLC
USH (West Lake), Inc.
USH Acquisition Corp.
USH Apartments Corporation
USH Bickford, LLC
USH Equity Corporation
USH Heritage Pom, L.L.C.
USH Millennium Ventures Corp.
USH Woodbridge, Inc.
USHHH, Inc.
Villages of Rio Pinar Club, Inc.
West Adams Street L.L.C.
West Chocolate Bayou Development Corp.
Westbrook Homes, LLC
Westchase, Inc.
Westchase, Ltd.
Weststone Corporation
 

Exhibit No. 10.5
 
 
This Registration Rights Agreement (this "") is made and entered into as of April 26, 2006, among LENNAR CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and the other entities that are listed on the signature pages hereof (collectively with any entity that in the future executes a supplemental indenture pursuant to which such entity agrees to guarantee the Notes (as hereinafter defined), the "" and, together with the Company, the ""), and DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., UBS SECURITIES LLC, BNP PARIBAS SECURITIES CORP., CALYON SECURITIES (USA) INC. and SUNTRUST CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. (each, an "" and, collectively, the "") for whom Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC are acting as representatives.
Agreement
Company
Guarantors
Issuers
Initial Purchaser
Initial Purchasers
This Agreement is entered into in connection with the Purchase Agreement, dated April 19, 2006, among the Company and the Initial Purchasers (the ""), which provides for, among other things, the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (the ""). The Notes are unconditionally guaranteed (the "") by each of the Guarantors. The Notes and the Guarantees are collectively referred to herein as the "". In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Issuers have agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement for the benefit of the Initial Purchasers and any subsequent holder or holders of the Securities. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the Initial Purchasers' obligation to purchase the Securities under the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Notes
Guarantees
Securities
The parties hereby agree as follows:
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
: See Section 4 hereof.
Additional Interest
: See Section 2(a) hereof.
Additional Notes
: See the last paragraph of Section 5 hereof.
Advice
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Agreement
: See Section 2 hereof.
Applicable Period
: Each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is a day on which banking institutions are open in New York, New York.
Business Day
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Company
: September 23, 2006; , , that with respect to any Shelf Registration Statement, the Effectiveness Date shall be the 75th day following the Filing Date with respect thereto.
Effectiveness Date
provided
however
: See Section 3(a) hereof.
Effectiveness Period
: See Section 4(b) hereof.
Event Date
: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
: See Section 2 hereof.
Exchange Notes
: See Section 2 hereof.
Exchange Offer
: See Section 2 hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
: (A) If no Exchange Offer Registration Statement has been filed by the Issuers pursuant to this Agreement, August 24, 2006; and (B) in each other case (which may be applicable notwithstanding the consummation of the Exchange Offer), the 30th day after the delivery of a Shelf Notice.
Filing Date
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Guarantees
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Guarantors
: Any holder of a Registrable Security or Registrable Securities.
Holder
: See Section 7(c) hereof.
Indemnified Person
: See Section 7(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person
: The Indenture, dated as of April 26, 2006, by and among the Issuers and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, pursuant to which the Notes are being issued, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Initial Purchasers
: See Section 3(a) hereof.
Initial Shelf Registration Statement
: See Section 5(m) hereof.
Inspectors
: April 26, 2006, the date of original issuance of the Securities.
Issue Date
: See Section 5(r) hereof.
NASD
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Notes
 
: The offering memorandum of the Company dated April 19, 2006, in respect of the offering of the Securities.
Offering Memorandum
: See Section 7(a) hereof.
Participant
: See Section 2(a) hereof.
Participating Broker-Dealer
: An individual, trustee, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, union, business association, firm or other legal entity.
Person
: See Section 2(b) hereof.
Private Exchange
: See Section 2(b) hereof.
Private Exchange Notes
: The prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, any prospectus subject to completion and a prospectus that includes any information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A promulgated under the Securities Act and any term sheet filed pursuant to Rule 434 under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, and all other amendments and supplements to the Prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.
Prospectus
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Purchase Agreement
: See Section 5(m) hereof.
Records
: Each Note upon its original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto, each Exchange Note as to which Section 2(c)(iv) hereof is applicable upon original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto and each Private Exchange Note upon original issuance thereof and at all times subsequent thereto, until the earliest to occur of (i) a Registration Statement (other than, with respect to any Exchange Note as to which Section 2(c)(iv) hereof is applicable, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) covering such Note, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note has been declared effective by the SEC and such Note, Exchange Note or such Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, has been disposed of in accordance with such effective Registration Statement, (ii) such Note has been exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer for an Exchange Note or Exchange Notes that may be resold (or, but for the status of such Holder as an affiliate of the Issuers under Rule 405, could be resold) without restriction under state and federal securities laws, (iii) such Note, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, ceases to be outstanding for purposes of the Indenture or (iv) such Note, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, may be resold without restriction pursuant to Rule 144(k) (as amended or replaced) under the Securities Act.
Registrable Notes
: Each Registrable Note and related guarantees.
Registrable Securities
 
: Any registration statement of the Issuers that covers any of the Securities, the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or the Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) filed with the SEC under the Securities Act, including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, all exhibits, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such registration statement.
Registration Statement
: Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144A) or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC providing for offers and sales of securities made in compliance therewith resulting in offers and sales by subsequent holders that are not affiliates of the issuer of such securities being free of the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act.
Rule 144
: Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144) or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 144A
: Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Rule 405
: Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 415
: The Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Securities
: The Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
: See Section 2(c) hereof.
Shelf Notice
: See Section 3(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement
: See Section 3(b) hereof.
Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement
: The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
TIA
: The trustee under the Indenture and the trustee (if any) under any indenture governing the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees).
Trustee
: A registration in which securities of one or more of the Issuers are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten registration or underwritten offering
 
(a) The Issuers shall file with the SEC, no later than the Filing Date, a Registration Statement (the "") on an appropriate registration form with respect to a registered offer (the "") to exchange any and all of the Registrable Securities for a like aggregate principal amount of notes of the Company, guaranteed by the Guarantors, that are identical in all material respects to the Securities, except that the Exchange Notes shall contain no restrictive legend thereon and no provision for payment of additional interest in the event of a registration default (the ""), and which are entitled to the benefits of the Indenture or a trust indenture which is identical in all material respects to the Indenture (other than such changes to the Indenture or any such identical trust indenture as are necessary to comply with the TIA) and which, in either case, has been qualified under the TIA. Interest on each Exchange Note will accrue (A) from the later of (1) the last interest payment date on which interest was paid on the Note surrendered, or (2) if the Note is surrendered for exchange on a date in a period which includes the record date for an interest payment date to occur on or after the date of the exchange and as to which interest will be paid, such interest payment date or (B) if no interest has been paid on that Note, from the Issue Date. The Exchange Offer shall comply with all applicable tender offer rules and regulations under the Exchange Act and other applicable laws. The Issuers shall use their reasonable best efforts to (x) cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act on or before the Effectiveness Date; (y) keep the Exchange Offer open for acceptance for not less than 30 days (or longer if required by applicable law) after the date that notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to Holders; and (z) consummate the Exchange Offer on or before November 22, 2006. If, after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is initially declared effective by the SEC, the Exchange Offer or the issuance of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) thereunder is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall be deemed not to have become effective for purposes of this Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
Exchange Offer
Exchange Notes
Each Holder that participates in the Exchange Offer will be required, as a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer, to represent to the Company in writing (which may be contained in the applicable letter of transmittal) (1) that any Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (2) that at the time of the consummation of the Exchange Offer such Holder will have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (3) that such Holder is not an "" (as defined in Rule 405 promulgated under the Securities Act) of any Issuer, (4) if the holder is not a broker-dealer, that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, the distribution of Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and (5) if the holder is a broker-dealer (a "") that it will receive the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) for its own account in exchange for Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, and that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees).
affiliate
Participating Broker-Dealer
Upon consummation of the Exchange Offer in accordance with this Section 2, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to apply, , solely with respect to
mutatis
mutandis
 
Registrable Securities that are Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) as to which Section 2(c)(iv) is applicable and Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) held by Participating Broker-Dealers, and the Issuers shall have no further obligation to register Registrable Securities (other than Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and other than in respect of any Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) as to which clause 2(c)(iv) hereof applies) pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
No securities other than the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement; provided, however that if the Company issues under the Indenture additional 6.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (and related guarantees) that are identical in all material respects to the Notes and have the same CUSIP number as the Notes (""), the Company may include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a like aggregate principal amount of notes of the Company, guaranteed by the Guarantors, that are identical in all material respects to the Additional Notes, except that such notes shall contain no restrictive legend thereon, provided further, however, that the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) as defined in that certain Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 26, 2006, by and among the Company, the guarantors named therein and the Initial Purchasers relating to the Company's 5.95% Senior Notes due 2011 may be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. The period of resale restrictions applicable to any Notes previously offered and sold in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act shall automatically be extended to the last day of the period of any resale restrictions imposed on such Additional Notes.
Additional Notes
(b) The Issuers shall include within the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a section entitled "Plan of Distribution," reasonably acceptable to the Initial Purchasers, which shall contain a summary statement of the positions taken or policies made by the staff of the SEC with respect to the potential "underwriter" status of any Participating Broker-Dealer that is the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of Exchange Notes received by such Participating Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, whether such positions or policies have been publicly disseminated by the staff of the SEC or such positions or policies represent the prevailing views of the staff of the SEC. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also expressly permit, to the extent permitted by applicable policies and regulations of the SEC, the use of the Prospectus by all Persons subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act with respect to the Exchange Notes, including, to the extent permitted by applicable policies and regulations of the SEC, all Participating Broker-Dealers, and include a statement describing the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Notes in compliance with the Securities Act.
The Issuers shall use their best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective and to amend and supplement the Prospectus contained therein in order to permit such Prospectus to be lawfully delivered by all Persons subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act with respect to the Exchange Notes for such period of time as is necessary to comply with applicable law in connection with any resale of the Exchange Notes covered thereby; , , that such period shall not exceed 180 days after such Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective (or such longer period if extended pursuant to the last paragraph of Section 5 hereof) (the "").
provided
however
Applicable Period
 
If, prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer, any Holder holds any Registrable Securities acquired by it that have, or that are reasonably likely to be determined to have, the status of an unsold allotment in an initial distribution, or any Holder is not entitled to participate in the Exchange Offer, the Issuers upon the request of any such Holder shall simultaneously with the delivery of the Exchange Notes in the Exchange Offer, issue and deliver to any such Holder, in exchange (the "") for such Registrable Securities held by any such Holder, a like principal amount of notes (the "") of the Company, guaranteed by the Guarantors, that are identical in all material respects to the Exchange Notes except for the placement of a restrictive legend on such Private Exchange Notes. The Private Exchange Notes shall be issued pursuant to the same indenture as the Exchange Notes and bear the same CUSIP number as the Exchange Notes.
Private Exchange
Private Exchange Notes
In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Issuers shall:
(i) mail, or cause to be mailed, to each Holder of record entitled to participate in the Exchange Offer a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
(ii) use their best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer open for acceptance for not less than 30 days after the date that notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to Holders (or longer if required by applicable law);
(iii) utilize the services of a depositary for the Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York;
(iv) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last business day on which the Exchange Offer shall remain open; and
(v) otherwise comply in all material respects with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Exchange Offer.
As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any, the Issuers shall:
(vi) accept for exchange all Registrable Securities that are validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any;
(vii) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Securities so accepted for exchange; and
(viii) cause the Trustee to authenticate and deliver promptly to each Holder of Securities that are accepted for exchange, Exchange Notes or Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, equal in principal amount to the Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
 
The Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and the Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) shall be issued under (i) the Indenture or (ii) an indenture identical in all material respects to the Indenture and which, in either case, has been qualified under the TIA or is exempt from such qualification and shall provide that the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) shall not be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture. The Indenture or such indenture shall provide that the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), the Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and the Securities shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class and that none of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), the Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or the Securities will have the right to vote or consent as a separate class on any matter.
(c) If, (i) because of any change in law or in currently prevailing interpretations by the SEC staff, the Issuers are not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not consummated by November 22, 2006, (iii) in certain circumstances, certain holders of Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) so request in writing to the Company, or (iv) in the case of any Holder that tenders Securities in response to the Exchange Offer, such Holder does not receive Exchange Notes on the date of the exchange that may be sold without restriction under state and federal securities laws (other than due solely to the status of such Holder as an affiliate of any of the Issuers within the meaning of the Securities Act), then in the case of each of clauses (i) to and including (iv) of this sentence, the Issuers shall (a) promptly deliver to the Holders and the Trustee written notice thereof (the "") and (b) at its sole expense and as promptly as practicable shall file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
Shelf Notice
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) a Filing Date or Effectiveness Date (or other date by which a filing is to be made or become effective) would fall on a day that is not a Business Day or (ii) the date by which the Exchange Offer is to be consummated would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, such Filing Date, Effectiveness Date (or other date by which a filing is to be made or become effective) or consummation date shall instead be the next succeeding Business Day.
 
If at any time a Shelf Notice is delivered as contemplated by Section 2(c) hereof, then:
(a) . The Issuers shall file with the SEC a Registration Statement for an offering to be made on a continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 covering all of the Registrable Securities not exchanged in the Exchange Offer, Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) as to which Section 2(c)(iv) is applicable (the ""). The Company shall use its best efforts to file with the SEC the Initial Shelf Registration Statement on or before the applicable Filing Date. The Initial Shelf Registration Statement shall be on Form S-1 or another appropriate form permitting registration of such Registrable Securities for resale by Holders in the manner or manners designated by them (including, without limitation, one or more underwritten offerings). The Issuers shall not permit any securities other than the Registrable Securities to be included in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement (as
Shelf Registration
Initial Shelf Registration Statement
 
defined below); provided, however that if the Company issues Additional Notes, the Company may include the Additional Notes in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement.
The Issuers shall use their best efforts to cause the Initial Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act on or before the Effectiveness Date and to keep the Initial Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective under the Securities Act until the date which is two years from the Issue Date (the ""), or such shorter period ending when (i) all Registrable Securities covered by the Initial Shelf Registration Statement have been sold in the manner set forth and as contemplated in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or (ii) a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement covering all of the Registrable Securities covered by and not sold under the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or an earlier Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective under the Securities Act; , , that the Effectiveness Period in respect of the Initial Shelf Registration Statement shall be extended to the extent required to permit dealers to comply with the applicable prospectus delivery requirements of Rule 174 under the Securities Act and as otherwise provided herein.
Effectiveness Period
provided
however
(b) . If the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective for any reason at any time during the Effectiveness Period (other than because of the sale of all of the securities registered thereunder), the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness thereof, and in any event shall within 30 days of such cessation of effectiveness amend the Initial Shelf Registration Statement in a manner to obtain the withdrawal of the order suspending the effectiveness thereof, or file an additional "shelf" Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 415 covering all of the Registrable Securities covered by and not sold under the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or an earlier Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement (each, a ""). If a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement is filed, the Company shall use its best efforts to cause the Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable after such filing and to keep such subsequent Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective for a period equal to the number of days in the Effectiveness Period less the aggregate number of days during which the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement was previously continuously effective. As used herein the term "" means the Initial Shelf Registration Statement and any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement.
Subsequent Shelf Registrations
Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement
Shelf Registration Statement
(c) . The Issuers shall promptly supplement and amend any Shelf Registration Statement if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used for such Shelf Registration Statement, if required by the Securities Act, or if reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities (or their counsel) covered by such Registration Statement or by any underwriter of such Registrable Securities.
Supplements and Amendments
 
(a) The Issuers and the Initial Purchasers agree that the Holders will suffer damages if the Issuers fail to fulfill their obligations under Section 2 or Section 3 hereof and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages with precision. Accordingly, the Issuers agree to pay, as liquidated damages, additional interest on the Notes ("") under the circumstances and to the extent set forth below (each of which shall be given independent effect):
Additional Interest
(i) if (A) neither the Exchange Offer Registration Statement nor the Initial Shelf Registration Statement has been filed with the SEC on or before the applicable Filing Date or (B) notwithstanding that the Issuers have consummated or will consummate the Exchange Offer, the Issuers are required to file a Shelf Registration Statement and such Shelf Registration Statement has not been filed with the SEC on or before the Filing Date applicable thereto, then, commencing on the day after any such Filing Date, Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days immediately following each such Filing Date, and such Additional Interest rate shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum at the beginning of each subsequent 90-day period; or
(ii) if (A) neither the Exchange Offer Registration Statement nor the Initial Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective by the SEC on or before the applicable Effectiveness Date or (B) notwithstanding that the Issuers have consummated or will consummate the Exchange Offer, the Issuers are required to file a Shelf Registration Statement and such Shelf Registration Statement has not been declared effective by the SEC on or before the applicable Effectiveness Date with respect to such Shelf Registration Statement, then, commencing on the day after such Effectiveness Date, Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days immediately following the day after such Effectiveness Date, and such Additional Interest rate shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum at the beginning of each subsequent 90-day period; or
(iii) if (A) the Issuers have not exchanged Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) for all Registrable Securities validly tendered in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer on or before November 22, 2006 or (B) if applicable, a Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective and such Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective at any time during the Effectiveness Period, then, Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days commencing on (x) November 22, 2006, in the case of (A) above, or (y) the day such Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective in the case of (B) above, and such Additional Interest rate shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum at the beginning of each such subsequent 90-day period;
 
, , that Additional Interest on the Notes may not under any circumstance accrue under more than one of the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Section 4 and the rate at which Additional Interest accrues on the Notes as a result of the provisions of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Section 4 may not exceed in the aggregate 1.0% per annum; , that (1) upon the filing of the applicable Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the applicable Shelf Registration Statement as required hereunder (in the case of clause (i) of this Section 4), (2) upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the applicable Shelf Registration Statement as required hereunder (in the case of clause (ii) of this Section 4), or (3) upon the exchange of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) for all Securities tendered (in the case of clause (iii)(A) of this Section 4), or upon the effectiveness of a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement in the case of Shelf Registration Statement which had ceased to remain effective (in the case of clause (iii)(B) of this Section 4), Additional Interest on the Registrable Notes as a result of such clause (or the relevant subclause thereof), as the case may be, shall cease to accrue.
provided
however
provided
further
(b) The Issuers shall notify the Trustee within three business days after each and every date on which an event occurs in respect of which Additional Interest is required to be paid (an ""), which notice shall also be at least three business days prior to the date of any payment to be made in accordance with the following sentence. Any amounts of Additional Interest due pursuant to (a)(i), (a)(ii) or (a)(iii) of this Section 4 will be payable in cash simultaneously with, and to the same persons entitled to receive, stated interest on the Notes, commencing with the first such payment of interest occurring after any such Additional Interest commences to accrue. The amount of Additional Interest payable with respect to Registrable Notes will be determined by multiplying the applicable Additional Interest rate by the principal amount of the Registrable Notes, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days such Additional Interest rate was applicable during such period (determined on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months and, in the case of a partial month, the actual number of days elapsed), and the denominator of which is 360.
Event Date
 
In connection with the filing of any Registration Statement pursuant to Sections 2 or 3 hereof, the Issuers shall effect such registrations to permit the sale of the securities covered thereby in accordance with the intended method or methods of disposition thereof, and pursuant thereto and in connection with any Registration Statement filed by the Issuers hereunder each of the Issuers shall:
(a) Prepare and file with the SEC before the applicable Filing Date, a Registration Statement or Registration Statements as prescribed by Sections 2 or 3 hereof, and use its best efforts to cause each such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective as provided herein; , , that, if (1) such filing is pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period relating thereto, before filing any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, the Issuers shall furnish to and afford the Holders of the Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement or each such Participating
provided
however
 
Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel and the managing underwriters, if any, a reasonable opportunity to review copies of all such documents (including copies of any documents to be incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits thereto) proposed to be filed (in each case at least five days prior to such filing, or such later date as is reasonable under the circumstances). The Issuers shall not file any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto if the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement, or any such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel, or the managing underwriters, if any, shall reasonably object.
(b) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Shelf Registration Statement or Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as the case may be, as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective for the Effectiveness Period or the Applicable Period, as the case may be; cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any Prospectus supplement required by applicable law, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) promulgated under the Securities Act; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act applicable to each of them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement as so amended or in such Prospectus as so supplemented and with respect to the subsequent resale of any securities being sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer covered by any such Prospectus. The Issuers shall be deemed not to have used their best efforts to keep a Registration Statement effective during the Effectiveness Period or the Applicable Period, as the case may be, relating thereto, if any of the Issuers voluntarily takes any action that would result in selling Holders of the Registrable Securities covered thereby or Participating Broker-Dealers seeking to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) not being able to sell such Registrable Securities or such Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during that period unless such action is required by applicable law or permitted by this Agreement.
(c) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period relating thereto from whom any of the Issuers has received written notice that it will be a Participating Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, notify the selling Holders of Registrable Securities, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel and the managing underwriters, if any, promptly (but in any event within one day), and confirm such notice in writing, (i) when a Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to a Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective under the Securities Act (including in such notice a written statement that any Holder may, upon request, obtain, at the sole expense of the Issuers, one conformed copy of such Registration Statement or post-effective amendment including financial statements and schedules, documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference and exhibits), (ii) of the issuance by the SEC of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iii) if at any time when a prospectus is required by the Securities Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Registrable Securities or resales of Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) by Participating Broker-Dealers, the representations and warranties of the Issuers
 
contained in any agreement (including any underwriting agreement) contemplated by Section 5(l) hereof cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (iv) of the receipt by any of the Issuers of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of a Registration Statement or any of the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer for offer or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, (v) of the happening of any event, the existence of any condition or any information becoming known that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in or amendments or supplements to such Registration Statement, Prospectus or documents so that, in the case of the Registration Statement, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and that in the case of the Prospectus, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (vi) of the Issuers' determination that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate.
(d) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or suspending the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer, for sale in any jurisdiction, and, if any such order is issued, to use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any such order at the earliest possible moment.
(e) If a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 and if requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters (if any), the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold in connection with an underwritten offering or any Participating Broker-Dealer, (i) as promptly as practicable incorporate in a prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information as the managing underwriter or underwriters (if any), such Holders, any Participating Broker-Dealer or counsel for any of them reasonably request to be included therein, (ii) make all required filings of such prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Company has received notification of the matters to be incorporated in such prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment, and (iii) supplement or make amendments to such Registration Statement.
(f) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, furnish to each selling Holder of Registrable Securities and to each such Participating Broker-Dealer who so requests and to their respective counsel and each managing underwriter, if any, at
 
the sole expense of the Issuers, one conformed copy of the Registration Statement or Registration Statements and each post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, and, if requested, all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits.
(g) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, deliver to each selling Holder of Registrable Securities, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their respective counsel, and the underwriters, if any, at the sole expense of the Issuers, as many copies of the Prospectus or Prospectuses (including each form of preliminary prospectus) and each amendment or supplement thereto and any documents incorporated by reference therein as such Persons may reasonably request; and, subject to the last paragraph of this Section 5, the Issuers hereby consent to the use of such Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Securities or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, and the underwriters or agents, if any, and dealers, if any, in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by, or the sale by Participating Broker-Dealers of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) pursuant to, such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto.
(h) Prior to any public offering of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or any delivery of a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, use its best efforts to register or qualify, and to cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Securities or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any selling Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer, or the managing underwriter or underwriters reasonably request in writing; , , that where Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) held by Participating Broker-Dealers or Registrable Securities are offered other than through an underwritten offering, the Issuers agree to cause their counsel to perform Blue Sky investigations and file registrations and qualifications required to be filed pursuant to this Section 5(h), keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be kept effective and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) held by Participating Broker-Dealers or the Registrable Securities covered by the applicable Registration Statement; , , that none of the Issuers shall be required to (A) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified, (B) take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject or (C) subject itself to taxation in excess of a nominal dollar amount in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
however
provided
however
(i) If a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Securities and the managing underwriter or
 
underwriters, if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Notes to be sold, which certificates shall not bear any restrictive legends and shall be in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company; and enable such Registrable Notes to be in such denominations permitted by the Indenture and registered in such names as the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, or Holders may request, provided, however, that the Registrable Notes are also transferable by delivery through means other than on the records of the Depository Trust Company or another clearing agency, in which case such preparation and delivery of certificates representing the Registrable Notes shall not be required.
(j) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by paragraph 5(c)(v) or 5(c)(vi) hereof, as promptly as practicable prepare and (subject to Section 5(a) hereof) file with the SEC, at the sole expense of the Issuers, a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference, or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities being sold thereunder or to the purchasers of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to whom such Prospectus will be delivered by a Participating Broker-Dealer, any such Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(k) Prior to the effective date of the first Registration Statement relating to the Registrable Securities, (i) provide the Trustee with certificates for the Registrable Notes in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and (ii) provide a CUSIP number for the Registrable Notes.
(l) In connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, enter into an underwriting agreement which is customary in underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Securities in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Issuers and take all such other actions as are reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of such Registrable Securities and, in such connection, (i) make such representations and warranties to, and covenants with, the underwriters with respect to the business of the Issuers (including any acquired business, properties or entity, if applicable) and the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the documents, if any, incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, in each case, as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Securities, and confirm the same in writing if and when requested in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Issuers; (ii) obtain the written opinions of counsel to the Issuers and written updates thereof in form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters, addressed to the underwriters covering the matters customarily covered in opinions reasonably requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters; (iii) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof in
 
form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters from the independent certified public accountants of the Issuers (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of the Issuers, or of any business or entity acquired by the Issuers for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement), addressed to each of the underwriters, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Securities and such other matters as are reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters as permitted by the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72, as amended by the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 76; and (iv) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, the same shall contain indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable to the sellers and underwriters, if any, than those set forth in Section 7 hereof (or such other provisions and procedures acceptable to Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement and the managing underwriter or underwriters or agents, if any). The above shall be done at each closing under such underwriting agreement, or as and to the extent required thereunder.
(m) If (1) a Shelf Registration Statement is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, make available for inspection by any selling Holder of such Registrable Securities being sold, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, any underwriter participating in any such disposition of Registrable Securities, if any, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by any such selling Holder or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, or underwriter (collectively, the ""), at the offices where normally kept, during reasonable business hours, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and instruments of the Issuers and subsidiaries of the Issuers (collectively, the "") as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise any applicable due diligence responsibilities, and cause the officers, directors and employees of the Issuers and any of their respective subsidiaries to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such Registration Statement and Prospectus. Each Inspector shall agree in writing that it will keep the Records confidential and that it will not disclose any of the Records that any of the Issuers determines, in good faith, to be confidential and notifies the Inspectors in writing are confidential unless (i) the disclosure of such Records is necessary to avoid or correct a material misstatement or material omission in such Registration Statement or Prospectus, (ii) the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction, or (iii) the information in such Records has been made generally available to the public; , , that prior notice shall be provided as soon as practicable to any of the Issuers of the potential disclosure of any information by such Inspector pursuant to clauses (i) or (ii) of this sentence to permit the Issuers to obtain a protective order (or waive the provisions of this paragraph (m)) and that such Inspector shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information (if practicable) to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of the Holder or any Inspector. If, in the course of performing due diligence, any Inspector becomes aware of material non public information about the Company and its subsidiaries, the Inspector will not, and will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that anyone to whom the
Inspectors
Records
provided
however
 
Inspector discloses the material non public information will not, trade in any securities of the Company until the information becomes public (whether through inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement or Exchange Offer Registration Statement or otherwise) or the information ceases to be material.
(n) Provide an indenture trustee for the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, and cause the Indenture or the trust indenture provided for in Section 2(a) hereof, as the case may be, to be qualified under the TIA not later than the effective date of the first Registration Statement relating to the Registrable Securities; and in connection therewith, cooperate with the trustee under any such indenture and the Holders of the Registrable Securities, to effect such changes to such indenture as may be required for such indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA; and execute, and use their best efforts to cause such trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable such indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner.
(o) Comply in all material respects with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make generally available to its securityholders with regard to any applicable Registration Statement, a consolidated earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the Securities Act) no later than 45 days after the end of any fiscal quarter (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year) (i) commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Registrable Securities are sold to underwriters in a firm commitment or best efforts underwritten offering and (ii) if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of the Company after the effective date of a Registration Statement, which statements shall cover said 12-month periods.
(p) Upon consummation of the Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange, obtain an opinion of counsel to the Company, in a form customary for underwritten transactions, addressed to the Trustee for the benefit of all Holders of Registrable Securities participating in the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange, as the case may be, that the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, and the related indenture constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with their respective terms, subject to customary exceptions and qualifications.
(q) If the Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Registrable Securities by Holders to the Company (or to such other Person as directed by the Issuers) to be exchanged for Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, the Issuers shall mark, or cause to be marked, on such Registrable Notes that such Registrable Notes are being canceled in exchange for Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) or Private Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be; in no event shall such Registrable Notes be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
(r) Cooperate with each seller of Registrable Securities covered by any Registration Statement and each underwriter, if any, participating in the disposition of such
 
Registrable Securities and their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "").
NASD
(s) Use its best efforts to take all other steps reasonably necessary to effect the registration of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and/or Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement contemplated hereby.
The Issuers may require each seller of Registrable Securities as to which any registration is being effected to furnish to the Issuers such information regarding such seller and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as the Issuers may, from time to time, reasonably request. The Issuers may exclude from such registration the Registrable Securities of any seller so long as such seller fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request. Each seller as to which any Shelf Registration is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Issuers all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Issuers by such seller not materially misleading.
If any Registration Statement refers to any Holder by name or otherwise as the holder of any securities of the Company, then such Holder shall have the right to require (i) the insertion therein of language, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Holder, to the effect that the holding by such Holder of such securities is not to be construed as a recommendation by such Holder of the investment quality of the securities covered thereby and that such holding does not imply that such Holder will assist in meeting any future financial requirements of the Company, or (ii) in the event that such reference to such Holder by name or otherwise is not required by the Securities Act or any similar federal statute then in force, the deletion of the reference to such Holder in any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement filed or prepared subsequent to the time that such reference ceases to be required.
Each Holder of Registrable Securities and each Participating Broker-Dealer agrees by its acquisition of such Registrable Securities or of Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, that, upon actual receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 5(c)(ii), 5(c)(iv), 5(c)(v), or 5(c)(vi) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of such Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement or Prospectus or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, until such Holder's or Participating Broker-Dealer's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 5(j) hereof, or until it is advised in writing (an "") by the Issuers that the use of the applicable Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any amendments or supplements thereto. In the event that the Issuers shall give any such notice, the Applicable Period shall be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of each such notice to and including the date when each seller of Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, shall have received (x) the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 5(j) hereof or (y) an Advice with respect to said notice.
Advice
 
All fees and expenses incident to the performance of or compliance with this Agreement by the Issuers (other than any underwriting discounts or commissions) shall be borne by the Company whether or not the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any Shelf Registration Statement is filed or becomes effective or the Exchange Offer is consummated, including, without limitation, (i) all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, (A) fees with respect to filings required to be made with the NASD in connection with an underwritten offering and (B) reasonable fees and expenses of compliance with state securities or Blue Sky laws (including, without limitation, fees and disbursements of counsel in connection with Blue Sky qualifications of the Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) and determination of the eligibility of the Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) for investment under the laws of the jurisdictions (x) where the holders of Registrable Securities are located, in the case of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), or (y) as provided in Section 5(h) hereof, in the case of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period)), (ii) printing expenses, including, without limitation, expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and of printing prospectuses if the printing of prospectuses is requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in any Registration Statement or in respect of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period, as the case may be, (iii) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses, (iv) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Issuers and reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm of special counsel for the sellers of Registrable Securities and any Participating Broker Dealers, (v) fees and disbursements of all independent certified public accountants referred to in Section 5(l)(iii) hereof (including, without limitation, the expenses of any special audit and "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance), (vi) Securities Act liability insurance, if the Issuers desire such insurance, (vii) fees and expenses of all other Persons retained by the Issuers, (viii) internal expenses of the Issuers (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of officers and employees of the Issuers performing legal or accounting duties), (ix) the expense of any annual audit, (x) any fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the securities to be registered on any securities exchange, and the obtaining of a rating of the securities, in each case, if applicable, and (xi) the expenses relating to printing, word processing and distributing all Registration Statements, underwriting agreements, indentures and any other documents necessary in order to comply with this Agreement.
 
(a) Each of the Issuers agree, jointly and severally, to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Registrable Securities and each Participating Broker-Dealer selling Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) during the Applicable Period, the affiliates, officers, directors, representatives, employees and agents of each such Person, and each Person, if any, who controls any such Person within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, a ""), from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, judgments, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, the reasonable legal fees and other expenses actually incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted) caused by, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement
Participant
 
or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if any of the Issuers shall have made any amendments or supplements thereto) or any preliminary prospectus, or caused by, arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the case of the Prospectus in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Participant, any underwriter, or the manner in which securities are to be distributed, furnished to the Issuers in writing by such Participant or an underwriter expressly for use therein.
except
(b) Each Participant agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Issuers, their respective affiliates, officers, directors, representatives, employees and agents and each Person who controls the Issuers within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent (but on a several, and not joint, basis) as the foregoing indemnity from the Issuers to each Participant, but only with reference to information relating to such Participant or the manner in which securities are to be distributed by such Participant or someone acting on such Participant's behalf, furnished to the Issuers in writing by such Participant expressly for use in any Registration Statement or Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, or any preliminary prospectus. The liability of any Participant under this paragraph shall in no event exceed the proceeds received by such Participant from sales of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) giving rise to such obligations.
(c) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either of the two preceding paragraphs, such Person (the "") shall promptly notify the Persons against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing, and the Indemnifying Persons, upon request of the Indemnified Person, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others the Indemnifying Persons may reasonably designate (which may include the Indemnifying Persons, unless representation of the Indemnifying Persons by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them) in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses actually incurred by such counsel related to such proceeding; , , that the failure to so notify the Indemnifying Persons (i) will not relieve them from any liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent such failure results in the forfeiture by an Indemnifying Person of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve any Indemnifying Person from any obligations to any Indemnified Person other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) above. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Persons and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary, (ii) the Indemnifying Persons shall have failed within a reasonable period of time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person or (iii) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both any Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person or any affiliate thereof and
Indemnified Person
Indemnifying Persons
provided
however
 
representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that, unless there exists a conflict among the Indemnified Persons, the Indemnifying Persons shall not, in connection with such proceeding or separate but substantially similar related proceeding in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed promptly as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for the Participants against whom a suit, action, proceeding, claim or demand is brought or asserted and control Persons of such Participants shall be designated in writing by Participants who sold a majority in interest of Registrable Securities and Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) sold by all such Participants, and any such separate firm for the Issuers, their affiliates, officers, directors, representatives, employees and agents and such control Persons of the Issuers shall be designated in writing by the Issuers.
The Indemnifying Persons shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without their prior written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final non-appealable judgment for the plaintiff for which any Indemnified Persons are entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement, each of the Indemnifying Persons agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Persons, effect any settlement or compromise of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party, or indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional written release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include any statement as to an admission of fault, culpability or failure to act by or on behalf of such Indemnified Person.
(d) If the indemnification provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Section 7 is for any reason unavailable to, or insufficient to hold harmless, an Indemnified Person in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraphs, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder and in order to provide for just and equitable contribution, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Indemnifying Person or Persons on the one hand and the Indemnified Person or Persons on the other from the applicable offering of Registrable or Exchanged Notes or (ii) if the allocation provided by the foregoing clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Indemnifying Person or Persons on the one hand and the Indemnified Person or Persons on the other in connection with the statements or omissions or alleged statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or such Participant or such other Indemnified Person, as the case may be, on the other, the parties' relative intent,
 
knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission, and any other equitable considerations appropriate in the circumstances.
(e) The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by allocation (even if the Participants were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages, judgments, liabilities and expenses referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any reasonable legal or other expenses actually incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no event shall a Participant be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which proceeds received by such Participant from sales of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, exceeds the amount of any damages that such Participant has otherwise been required to pay or has paid by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of a fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
pro rata
(f) Any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses for which an indemnified party is entitled to indemnification or contribution under this Section 7 shall be paid by the Indemnifying Person to the Indemnified Person as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are incurred. The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section 7 and the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in this Agreement shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or any person who controls a Holder, or by the Company, its directors, officers, employees or agents or any person controlling any of the Issuers, and (ii) any termination of this Agreement.
(g) The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section 7 will be in addition to any liability which the Indemnifying Persons may otherwise have to the Indemnified Persons referred to above.
 
Each of the Issuers covenants and agrees that it will file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder in a timely manner in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and, if at any time such Issuer is not required to file such reports, such Issuer will, upon the request of any Holder or beneficial owner of Registrable Securities, make available such information as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Company further covenants and agrees, for so long as any Registrable Securities remain outstanding, that it will take such further action as any Holder of Registrable Securities may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitations of the exemptions provided by (a) Rule 144(k) and Rule 144A under the Securities
 
Act, as such Rules may be amended from time to time, or (b) any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
 
If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will manage the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuers.
No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes in a timely manner all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other customary documents required by the Company or the underwriter in connection with such underwriting arrangements.
 
(a) . The Issuers have not, as of the date hereof, and the Issuers shall not, after the date of this Agreement, enter into any agreement with respect to any of their securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Issuers' other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements. The Issuers will not enter into any agreement with respect to any of its securities which will grant to any Person piggyback registration rights with respect to any Registration Statement; provided, however that the Company may enter into an agreement in connection with the issuance of Additional Notes which will grant the holders of the Additional Notes the right to have them included in a Registration Statement.
No Inconsistent Agreements
(b) . The Issuers shall not, directly or indirectly, take any action with respect to the Registrable Securities as a class that would adversely affect the ability of the Holders of Registrable Securities to include such Registrable Securities in a registration undertaken pursuant to this Agreement.
Adjustments Affecting Registrable Securities
(c) . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, otherwise than with the prior written consent of (I) the Company and (II)(A) the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Registrable Securities and (B) if the amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent would adversely affect the Participating Broker-Dealers, the Participating Broker-Dealers holding not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Exchange Notes (and related guarantees) held by all Participating Broker-Dealers; , , that Section 7 and this Section 10(c) may not be amended, modified or supplemented without the
Amendments and Waivers
provided
however
 
prior written consent of each Holder and each Participating Broker-Dealer (including any person who was a Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer of Registrable Securities or Exchange Notes (and related guarantees), as the case may be, disposed of pursuant to any Registration Statement) affected by any such amendment, modification or supplement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to depart from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders of Registrable Securities whose securities are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect, impair, limit or compromise the rights of other Holders of Registrable Securities may be given by Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold pursuant to such Registration Statement.
(d) . All notices and other communications (including, without limitation, any notices or other communications to the Trustee) provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, next-day air courier or facsimile:
Notices
(i) if to a Holder of the Registrable Securities or any Participating Broker-Dealer, at the most current address of such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, set forth on the records of the registrar under the Indenture, with a copy in like manner to the Initial Purchasers as follows:
UBS Securities LLC
677 Washington Blvd.
Stamford, CT 06901
Attention:         Fixed Income Syndicate
with a copy to:
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP
787 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York, 10019
Attention:         John S. D'Alimonte, Esq.
                        William N. Dye, Esq.
(ii) if to the Company, at the address as follows:
700 N.W. 107th Avenue
Miami, Florida 33172
Attention:         General Counsel, Mark Sustana
with a copy to:
Clifford Chance US LLP
31 West 52
nd
Street
New York, New York 10019
Attention:         David W. Bernstein, Esq.
 
(iii) if to the Initial Purchasers, at the address specified in Section 10(d)(i).
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: when delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; one business day after being timely delivered to a next-day air courier; and when receipt is acknowledged by the addressee, if sent by facsimile.
Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee under an indenture at the address and in the manner specified in the indenture.
(e) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties hereto, the Holders and the Participating Broker-Dealers.
Successors and Assigns
(f) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original (including facsimile signatures) and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
(g) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
(h)
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AS APPLIED TO CONTRACTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY WITHIN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW THAT WOULD APPLY THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES TO SUBMIT TO THE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY OR OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT.
Governing Law
(i) . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and the parties hereto shall use their best efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction. It is hereby stipulated and declared to be the intention of the parties that they would have executed the remaining terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions without including any of such that may be hereafter declared invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable.
Severability
(j) . Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Issuers or their respective affiliates (as such term is defined in
Securities Held by the Issuers or their Affiliates
 
Rule 405 under the Securities Act) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
(k) . Holders of Registrable Securities and Participating Broker-Dealers are intended third-party beneficiaries of this Agreement, and this Agreement may be enforced by such Persons.
Third-Party Beneficiaries
(l) . This Agreement, together with the Purchase Agreement and the Indenture, is intended by the parties as a final and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and therein and any and all prior oral or written agreements, representations, or warranties, contracts, understandings, correspondence, conversations and memoranda between the Holders on the one hand and the Issuers on the other, or between or among any agents, representatives, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, predecessors in interest or successors in interest with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof are merged herein and replaced hereby.
Entire Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
Acme Water Supply & Management Company
Aquaterra Utilities, Inc.
Asbury Woods L.L.C.
Avalon-Sienna III, L.L.C.
Bayhome USH, Inc.
Bella Oaks L.L.C.
Bickford Holdings, LLC
Boca Greens, Inc.
Boca Isles South Club, Inc.
Boggy Creek USH, Inc.
Bramalea California Properties, Inc.
Bramalea California Realty, Inc.
Bramalea California, Inc.
Brazoria County LP, Inc.
Builders Acquisition Corp.
Builders LP, Inc.
Cambria L.L.C.
Cantera Village L.L.C.
Cary Woods L.L.C.
Claremont Ridge L.L.C.
Claridge Estates L.L.C.
Clodine-Bellaire LP, Inc.
Club Pembroke Isles, Inc.
Club Tampa Palms, Inc.
Colonial Heritage LLC
Concord at Meadowbrook L.L.C.
Concord at Pheasant Run Trails L.L.C.
Concord at Ravenna L.L.C.
Concord City Centre L.L.C.
Concord Hills, Inc.
Concord Homes, Inc.
Concord Lake, Inc.
Concord Mills Estates L.L.C.
Concord Oaks, Inc.
Concord Park, Inc.
Concord Pointe, Inc.
Coto de Caza, Ltd.
Country Club Development at the Fort, LLC
Coventry L.L.C.
DCA Homes NJ Realty, Inc.
DCA of Lake Worth, Inc.
DCA of New Jersey, Inc.
E.M.J.V. Corp.
Enclave Land, L.L.C.
ERMLOE, LLC
F.P. Construction Corp.
Fidelity Guaranty and Acceptance Corporation
Fortress Holding  Virginia, LLC
Fortress Illinois, LLC
Fortress Management, Inc.
Fortress Missouri, LLC
Fortress Mortgage, Inc.
Fortress Pennsylvania Realty, Inc.
Fortress Pennsylvania, LLC
Fortress-Florida, Inc.
Fox-Maple Associates, LLC
Foxwood L.L.C.
Gateway Commons, L.L.C.
Genesee Communities I, Inc.
Genesee Communities II, LLC
Genesee Communities III, Inc.
Genesee Communities IV, LLC
Genesee Communities IX, LLC
Genesee Communities V, LLC
Genesee Communities VI, LLC
Genesee Communities VII, LLC
Genesee Communities VIII, LLC
Genesee Venture, LLC
Glenview Reserve, LLC
Grand Isle Club, Inc.
Greenfield/Waterbury L.L.C.
Greystone Construction, Inc.
Greystone Homes of Nevada, Inc.
Greystone Homes, Inc.
Greystone Nevada, LLC
Hallston Burbank LLC
Harris County LP, Inc.
Haverton L.L.C.
Heathcote Commons LLC
Heritage Harbour Realty, Inc.
Heritage Housing Group, Inc.
Heritage USH, Inc.
Home Buyer's Advantage Realty, Inc.
Homecraft Corporation
Imperial Homes Corporation
Impressions L.L.C.
Inactive Corporations, Inc.
Kings Lake TH, LLC
Kings Ridge Golf Corporation
Kings Ridge Recreation Corporation
Kings Wood Development Corporation
Landmark Homes, Inc.
Laureate Homes of Arizona, Inc.
Legacy Homes, Inc.
Legends Club, Inc.
Legends Golf Club, Inc.
LENH I, LLC
Lennar Acquisition Corp. II
Lennar Americanos Douglas, LLC
Lennar Associates Management Holding Company
Lennar Associates Management, LLC
Lennar Aviation, Inc.
Lennar Carolinas, LLC
Lennar Central Region Sweep, Inc.
Lennar Chicago, Inc.
Lennar Communities Development, Inc.
Lennar Communities Nevada, LLC
Lennar Communities of Chicago, LLC
Lennar Communities of Florida, Inc.
Lennar Communities of South Florida, Inc.
Lennar Communities, Inc.
Lennar Construction, Inc.
Lennar Coto Holdings, L.L.C.
Lennar Developers, Inc.
Lennar Developers, Inc. II
Lennar Developers, Inc. III
Lennar Family of Builders GP, Inc.
Lennar Family of Builders Limited Partnership
Lennar Financial Services, LLC
Lennar Fresno, Inc.
Lennar Funding, LLC
Lennar Hingham Holdings, LLC
Lennar Hingham JV, LLC
Lennar Homes Holding Corp.
Lennar Homes of Arizona, Inc.
Lennar Homes of California, Inc.
Lennar Homes of Texas Land and Construction, Ltd.
Lennar Homes of Texas Sales and Marketing, Ltd.
Lennar Homes, Inc.
Lennar Houston Land, LLC
Lennar Imperial Holdings Limited Partnership
Lennar La Paz Limited, Inc.
Lennar La Paz, Inc.
Lennar Land Partners Sub II, Inc.
Lennar Land Partners Sub, Inc.
Lennar Long Beach Promenade Partners, LLC
Lennar Massachusetts Properties, Inc.
Lennar Meridian Hills Partners, LLC
Lennar Military Housing, Inc.
Lennar Nevada, Inc.
Lennar New Jersey Properties, Inc.
Lennar Northeast Properties, Inc.
Lennar Northland I, Inc.
Lennar Northland II, Inc.
Lennar Northland III, Inc.
Lennar Northland IV, Inc.
Lennar Northland V, Inc.
Lennar Northland VI, Inc.
Lennar Pacific Properties Management, Inc.
Lennar Pacific Properties, Inc.
Lennar Pacific, Inc.
Lennar Pacific, L.P.
Lennar PNW, Inc.
Lennar Port Imperial South Building 10, LLC
Lennar Port Imperial South Building 12, LLC
Lennar Port Imperial South, LLC
Lennar Realty, Inc.
Lennar Renaissance, Inc.
Lennar Reno, LLC
Lennar Riverside West Holdings, LLC
Lennar Riverside West Limited Partnership
Lennar Riverside West Urban Renewal Company, L.L.C.
Lennar Sacramento, Inc.
Lennar Sales Corp.
Lennar San Jose Holdings, Inc.
Lennar Seaport Partners, LLC
Lennar Southland I, Inc.
Lennar Southland II, Inc.
Lennar Southland III, Inc.
Lennar Southwest Holding Corp.
Lennar Texas Holding Company
Lennar Trading Company, LP
Lennar-Kings Lake, Inc.
Lennar-Lantana Boatyard, Inc.
Lennar.Com, Inc.
Lennarstone Marketing Group, LLC
LFS Holding Company, LLC
LH Eastwind, LLC
LHI Renaissance, LLC
LLT, LLC
LN, L.L.C.
Long Point Development Corporation
Lorton Station, LLC
Lucerne Merged Condominiums, Inc.
M.A.P. Builders, Inc.
Madrona Village L.L.C.
Marlborough Development Corporation
Mid-County Utilities, Inc.
Midland Housing Industries Corp.
Midland Investment Corporation
Mission Viejo 12S Venture, LP
Mission Viejo Holdings, Inc.
New Home Brokerage, Inc.
North County Land Company, LLC
Northbridge L.L.C.
Northeastern Properties LP, Inc.
Northern Land Company, LLC
NuHome Designs, L.L.C.
Oceanpointe Development Corporation
Orrin Thompson Construction Company
Orrin Thompson Homes Corp.
Paparone Construction Co.
Parc Chestnut L.L.C.
Parkside Estates L.L.C.
Placer Vineyards, LLC
Providence Glen L.L.C.
Rancho Summit, LLC
Rivenhome Corporation
Riviera Land Corp.
RRKTG Lumber, LLC
Rutenberg Homes of Texas, Inc.
Rutenberg Homes, Inc.
S. Florida Construction II, LLC
S. Florida Construction III, LLC
S. Florida Construction, LLC
SEA Joint Venture, LLC
SFHR Management, L.L.C.
Silver Lakes-Gateway Clubhouse, Inc.
Sonoma L.L.C.
South Park Development, LLC
Spanish Springs Development, LLC
Stoney Corporation
Stoneybrook Golf Club, Inc.
Strategic Cable Technologies, L.P.
Strategic Holdings, Inc.
Strategic Technologies Communications of California, Inc.
Strategic Technologies, Inc.
Summerway Investment Corp.
Summerwood, L.L.C.
Summit Acquisition Corp.
Summit Enclave, L.L.C.
Summit Land, L.L.C.
Summit Ridge 23, L.L.C.
Summit Townes, L.L.C.
Summit-Meadowbrook, L.L.C.
Summit-Reserve, L.L.C.
Sunstar Enterprises, LLC
The Club at Stoneybrook, Inc.
The Courts of Indian Creek L.L.C.
The Fortress Group, Inc.
The Grande By Lennar Builders, Inc.
The Sexton L.L.C.
U.S. Home Associates Management, Inc.
U.S. Home Corporation
U.S. Home of Arizona Construction Co.
U.S. Home of West Virginia, Inc.
U.S. Home Realty Corporation
U.S. Home Realty, Inc.
U.S. Home Southwest Holding Corp.
U.S.H. Realty, Inc.
U.S.H. Corporation of New York
U.S.H. Los Prados, Inc.
University Community Partners, LLC
USH (West Lake), Inc.
USH Acquisition Corp.
USH Apartments Corporation
USH Bickford, LLC
USH Equity Corporation
USH Heritage Pom, L.L.C.
USH Millennium Ventures Corp.
USH Woodbridge, Inc.
USHHH, Inc.
Villages of Rio Pinar Club, Inc.
West Adams Street L.L.C.
West Chocolate Bayou Development Corp.
Westbrook Homes, LLC
Westchase, Inc.
Westchase, Ltd.
Weststone Corporation
 


