FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20060808194043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
On August 4, 2006, Lennar Corporation (the "Company") revised its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
The revisions take into account advances in corporate governance best practices and compliance-driven concepts, including (1) the integration of concepts that associates must deal in the spirit of the Code and in good faith, (2) additional guidelines concerning compliance with specific regulatory regimes relating to the environment, employment matters, campaign finance and lobbying, Sarbanes-Oxley and insider trading and (3) additional g
uidelines concerning the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA).
A copy of the Company's revised Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is included as Exhibit 14.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is available on the Company's website at www.lennar.com.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
 
 

 
 
Purpose and Scope
 
 
Since its founding, Lennar Corporation (the Company) has required that all its associates maintain the highest level of integrity in their dealings on behalf of the Company and its subsidiaries, in their dealings with the Company, and in everything affecting the Company's relationships with its customers, banks, security holders and others with whom the Company does business. The Company believes the high level of integrity with which it conducts its affairs has been a major factor in the Company's success.
 
This Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code") is intended to document the principles of conduct and ethics to be followed by the Company's associates, officers, and directors, including its principal executive officer, its principal financial officer and its principal accounting officer, and is to be followed in both letter and spirit. Its purpose is to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company expects all its associates, officers, and directors to comply at all times with the principles in this Code. Violations of this Code by an associate, officer or director are grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including immediate termination of employment and forfeiture of any earned or unearned bonus and possible legal prosecution.
 
Fair Dealing
 
 
 
 
Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations (Including Insider Trading Laws)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Associates, officers, and directors are required to comply with the Company's policies regarding non-public information in sections 5.2 and 5.16 of the Associate Reference Guide. You should review and follow these policies carefully. Because of the complexity of inside information and insider trading issues, and the severity of the punishments involved, which can include criminal prosecution, please contact the Companys General Counsel if you have questions or need additional guidance on this topic.
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conflicts of Interest
 
 
 
 
(1)
Action or Inaction
: When an associate, officer, or director, or a Related Party (as defined below) of any such person, will benefit personally from something the associate, officer, or director does or fails to do that is not in the best interests of the Company,
 
3
 
(2)
Objectivity
: When an associate, officer, or director takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult to perform his or her Company work objectively and effectively,
 
(3)
Personal Benefits
: When an associate, officer or director, or a Related Party of any such person, receives personal benefits from somebody, including the Companys vendors, subcontractors and customers, and others other than the Company, as a result of his or her position in the Company, which are not generally available to all the Company's associates, or at least to all associates in the same area of work or the same geographic area. Loans to,or guarantees of obligations of, associates, officers, or directors by persons with whom the Company does business are of special concern. Loans to any officer or director by persons with whom the Company does business require specific approval of the Conflicts Committee, and
 
(4)
Competing Activities
: When an associate, officer, or director engages in any activity that is competitive with the business activities and operations conducted from time to time by the Company. Any ownership interest, whether active or passive, in any other homebuilder, land developer, or mortgage lender or title company would be considered a competitive activity, other than investments in publicly traded securities that are listed on a recognized securities exchange or securities quotation system not exceeding one percent (1%) of the outstanding securities of a class or series.
 
As used in this Code, the term Related Party refers to any of an associates, officers or directors spouse, parents, parents-in-law, siblings, children, sons or daughters-in-law and any person who has lived in such associates, officers or directors household for more than 30 days during the preceding 12 months..
 
 
(1)
Corporate Opportunities
, including
Real Estate Investments
: Associates, officers, and directors owe a duty to the Company to advance the Company's legitimate interests whenever the opportunity to do so arises. Therefore, no associate, officer, or director, shall (i) take for himself or herself personally any opportunity of which he or she becomes aware, or to which he or she obtains access, through the use of corporate property, information or position; (ii) make it possible for somebody other than the Company to take advantage of an opportunity in any of the Company's areas of business of which the associate, officer, or director becomes aware in the course of his or her activities on behalf of the Company, unless the Company has indicated in writing that it will not attempt to take advantage of the opportunity; or (iii) otherwise use corporate property, information, or position for personal gain.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an associate, officer, or director may make real estate investments in noncompetitive activities, including investments in raw land and income producing properties, if the involvement of the associate, officer, or director does not require active participation in planning or zoning changes, processing government approvals, or other development work with respect to the raw land, and as long as such activities in general do not in any way interfere with the associate's, officer's, or director's duties owed to the Company.
 
4
 
Notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, no associate, officer, or director may acquire a direct or indirect interest in raw land (except land upon which to construct a personal residence) (a) within a twenty-five (25) mile radius of a present or proposed community of the Company, without the prior written consent of the applicable one of the Conflicts Committee or the Audit Committee of the Company's Board. Such written notice shall include giving the Company the opportunity to acquire such land on the same terms and conditions as those on which such associate, officer, or director proposes to acquire the land. Any such offer must be delivered in writing to the Conflicts Committee, which will forward it to the Asset Management Committee. If the Company does not accept an offer within ten days after the written offer is delivered to the Conflicts Committee, the Company will be deemed to have waived its right to acquire the land, and the associate, officer, or director may, within six months after the end of the ten day period, acquire the land on terms no more favorable to the purchaser than those stated in the written offer delivered to the Conflicts Committee.
 
(2)
Transactions with the Company
: No associate, officer, or director, or Related Party of any such person, may sell, lease or buy any kind of property, facility, equipment or service directly or indirectly from or to the Company other than on market terms or under policies, such as policies regarding home purchase prices or favorable financing terms, available to all associates at a similar employment level. Any exceptions to this policy must have written approval of the applicable one of the Conflicts Committee or the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. All processing and execution of sales contracts and closing statements related to home or homesite sales to associates must be handled by the Division President of the division where the home or homesite is located, with approval by the appropriate Regional President.
 
No associate of the Company shall act as a general contractor for construction of his or her personal residence or as a general contractor for any construction other than for the Company. An unpaid leave of absence will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the appropriate Regional President for an associate desiring to act as a general contractor for the construction of his or her personal residence.
 
Associates, officers, directors or Related Parties of any such person who utilize subcontractors or vendors with which the Company does business to perform maintenance and repair to their personal residences will pay for these services at a rate that is available to all associates in the applicable geographic area.
 
(3)
Other Business Activities
: No full-time associate will engage in any part-time employment, business consulting arrangements or other business activities without written approval from (a) the Conflicts Committee, if such associate is an officer, (b) from the CEO or COO if a Regional or Division President, or (c) from the applicable Division President, corporate officer, or comparable Company Financial Services position, if not an officer, Regional or Division President.
 
New home consultants may not receive commissions on any real estate sales made outside the Company during their employment with the Company, unless specifically approved by the appropriate Division President. No associate is permitted to conduct non-Company business of any kind from any Company location, including, without limitation, Welcome Home Centers.
 
5
 
(4)
Gifts, etc.
: No associate, officer, or director may accept any gift, favor, lavish or unusual hospitality, or personal incentive, other than those of a non-cash nature in accordance with customary business practices as described below, from a current or prospective vendor, supplier, contractor or customer or other person with which the Company does business. Associates, officers and directors are also prohibited from giving any gifts, favors or personal incentives, other than those of a non-cash nature in accordance with customary business practices as described below, to any current or prospective vendor, supplier, contractor or customer or other person with which the Company does business. Any exceptions to the foregoing, which are not unreasonable or non-customary in cost or scope, may be permitted, but only if, in each instance, it is disclosed to and approved in writing by (a) the Conflicts Committee, if such associate is an executive officer, Regional President, Regional Vice President, or Division President, (b) the appropriate Division President, Regional Vice President, corporate officer, or comparable Lennar Financial Services associate, if such associate is not an executive officer, Regional President, Regional Vice President, or Division President or (c) the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, if the individual is a Director. However, in all events these gifts should be given or received infrequently and their value should be reasonable.
 
The term "customary business practices" is meant to include business-related gifts such as meals and other modestly priced or valued tokens of goodwill. Cash or its equivalents may
never
be offered or accepted. Further, no associate, officer, or director may solicit or accept or give any money, gift, favor, service or other tangible or intangible benefit or service from or to any associate of the Company or any current or prospective vendor, supplier, contractor or customer or other person with which the Company does business, even if it is otherwise permitted by this Code, in exchange for anything involving the performance of the person's responsibilities on behalf of the Company or a third party, or under circumstances that might impair that person's judgment as to what is in the best interests of the Company or a third party, as applicable, or is intended in any way to improperly influence that person, or that could reasonably result in the appearance of any of the foregoing.
 
(5)
Transactions with Related Parties
: Where a Related Party of any associate, officer, or director is involved in a transaction with the Company, all payments, commissions, fees, or other remuneration to such Related Party must be disclosed to and approved in advance by the Conflicts Committee.
 
 
 
6
 
 
Conflicts Committee
 
The Conflicts Committee shall consist of the Companys Chief Financial Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, and General Counsel. No Conflicts Committee member may pass judgment on a possible conflict of interest or appearance of conflict involving that member.
 
The Conflicts Committee shall keep written records of all findings and matters brought before it. A quorumof at least two Conflicts Committee members is required in order for the Conflicts Committee to take formal action.
 
Confidentiality
 
 
 
 
Protection and Proper Use of Company Assets
 
 
 
Change in or Waiver of the Code
 
Any
waiver
of any provision of this Code must be approved:
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
Reporting
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concerns about (a) the Companys operations, (b) the Companys financial reporting, (c) the Companys business integrity, or (d) any other matter related to the Company, can be submitted confidentially and anonymously to the non-management directors of our Board of Directors in the following manner:
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
Terms used in this Code
 
 
 
9


