FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20080409162800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 8, 2008, Lennar Corporation (the "Company") held its 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, at which the Company's stockholders voted in favor of an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Amendment") to declassify the Company's Board of Directors. Pursuant to the Certificate of Amendment, Article V of the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was amended to provide for the annual election of directors. Beginning with the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, the Company's directors will be elected for one-year terms at each annual meeting of stockholders. The text of the Certificate of Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.
In connection with the Certificate of Amendment, on April 8, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company voted, in accordance with Article XI of the Company's By-Laws, to amend Section 3.3 of the By-Laws to provide for the declassification of the Company's Board of Directors effective upon filing of the Certificate of Amendment with the Delaware Secretary of State. The text of the amended Section 3.3 is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
The business of this corporation shall be managed by a board of directors consisting of not fewer than three, and not more than fifteen, persons, the exact number to be determined from time to time in accordance with the By-Laws. The directors will serve for a term of one year, and until their successors are elected and qualified, or with regard to any director until that director's earlier death or resignation. If there is a vacancy, including a vacancy because of a newly created directorship, the person elected to fill that vacancy will serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until that person's successor is elected and qualified.
No director of the Corporation shall be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. In addition to the circumstances in which a director of the Corporation is not personally liable as set forth in the preceding sentence, a director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the fullest extent permitted by any amendment to the Delaware General Corporation Law hereafter enacted that further limits the liability of a director."

Exhibit 3.2
Each director will serve until the annual meeting of stockholders following his or her election and until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier resignation, removal or death."
"3.3


