FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20080225115208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
Scott Shipley
Investor Relations
Lennar Corporation
(305) 485-2054
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
, one of the nation's largest homebuilders, announced today that Diane J. Bessette was named Vice President and Treasurer and David Collins was named Controller, effective February 21, 2008.
MIAMI, February 22, 2008  Lennar Corporation (NYSE: LEN and LEN.B)
Ms. Bessette joined Lennar in 1995, has been Controller since 1997 and has been Vice President since 2000. Bruce Gross, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said "Diane has played an integral role on our senior management team for over ten years. Her extensive company and industry knowledge and remarkable work ethic combine to provide her with all of the tools needed to excel in the role of Treasurer. Lennar is fortunate to have a talented individual like Diane accept this new challenge and continue her extremely successful tenure as a member of our leadership team."
Mr. Collins joined Lennar in 1998 and most recently was Executive Director of Financial Reporting. "David has made significant contributions to our company since joining Lennar as an accounting manager in 1998, after having worked as a CPA with the public accounting firm Coopers & Lybrand," said Mr. Gross. "David worked his way through the ranks of Lennar's accounting team and that broad experience positions him well for continued success in his new role as Controller."
Lennar Corporation, founded in 1954, is one of the nation's leading builders of quality homes for all generations. The Company builds affordable, move-up and retirement homes primarily under the Lennar brand name. Lennar's Financial Services segment provides primarily mortgage financing, title insurance and closing services for both buyers of the Company's homes and others. Previous press releases and further information about the Company may be obtained at the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's website, www.lennar.com.


