FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20080125165504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2008, Lennar Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release to announce its results of operations for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended November 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
On January 23, 2008, the Company amended its senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") to modify certain covenants, which included minimum tangible net worth, borrowing base and maximum leverage ratio, as well as to add a new covenant to reduce the recourse indebtedness of joint ventures in which the Company participates. Under this amendment, the maximum amount the Company can borrow was reduced from $3.1 billion to $1.5 billion.
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement dated July 21, 2006, the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of August 21, 2007 and the Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of January 23, 2008, which govern the Credit Facility. The Credit Agreement, the First Amendment to Credit Agreement and the Second Amendment to Credit Agreement are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
This SECOND AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT ("Amendment"), dated as of January 23, 2008, among LENNAR CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), the Lenders that are identified on the signature pages hereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "Administrative Agent").
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Lenders identified on the signature pages hereto, certain other Lenders and Administrative Agent are parties to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of July 21, 2006 (as amended by First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated August 21, 2007 (the "First Amendment") and as it may be amended, renewed and restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement") (all capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings given such terms in the Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS, the Borrower and the Lenders desire to amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth;
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1. . Effective as of the date hereof, the Aggregate Commitment is hereby reduced to $1,500,000,000, Section  and are hereby deleted from the Credit Agreement and of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety with the attached hereto.
Aggregate Commitment
2.17
Exhibit G
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
2. . (a) The following defined terms in of the Credit Agreement are hereby amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Definitions
Article 1
"" means $1,500,000,000 as such amount may be reduced from time to time pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Aggregate Commitment
"" means, from time to time, the sum of the following amounts, all as reflected from time to time in accordance with GAAP consistently applied in the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower: (a) 100% of the Unrestricted Cash of the Loan Parties up to a maximum of $500,000,000 (with any excess cash being excluded from the Borrowing Base); (b) 100% of the Net Housing Unit Proceeds due to any Loan Party at closing as a result of the consummation of the sale of any Housing Unit, which Net Housing Unit Proceeds have been paid to the closing agent handling such sale but which have not yet been received by such Loan Party; that if, and to the extent that, such Net Housing Unit Proceeds which are reported as outstanding on the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower are not received by such Loan Party on or before the tenth (10th) day following the end of any such fiscal quarter, such Net Housing Unit Proceeds shall not be included in the Borrowing Base; (c) 90% of the Net Book Value of all Housing Units Under Contract; (d) 75% of the Net Book Value of all Housing Units (including, without limitation, model Housing Units) that are not subject to a contract for sale; (e) 70% of the Net Book Value of all Finished Lots; (f) 50% of the Net Book Value of all Land Under Development; and (g) 30% of the Net Book
Borrowing Base
provided, however,
Value of all Unimproved Entitled Land, that the sum of the amounts determined pursuant to  and  shall not exceed 40% of the Borrowing Base (with any excess being excluded from the Borrowing Base); that notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided herein, any asset which is encumbered by a Lien (other than a Lien described in , ,  or  of the definition of "Permitted Liens") shall not be included in the calculation of the Borrowing Base pursuant to  through  above.
provided
clauses (f)
(g)
provided further,
clauses (b)
(c)
(e)
(j)
clauses (a)
(g)
"" means all Consolidated Indebtedness, including without limitation the Obligations but excluding (a) any Subordinated Debt of the Borrower, (b) any Non-Recourse Indebtedness secured solely by Real Estate that is owned by any Loan Party and that, if the same did not secure such Indebtedness, would be included in the determination of the Borrowing Base and (c) only during the JV Debt Waiver Period, Recourse JV Obligations.
Borrowing Base Debt
"" means, for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of the Loan Parties plus, to the extent deducted from revenues in determining Consolidated Net Income, (a) Consolidated Interest Expense, (b) expense for income taxes paid or accrued, (c) depreciation, (d) amortization, (e) extraordinary losses incurred other than in the ordinary course of business and (f) all non-cash charges and expenses (including but not limited to asset impairment charges for inventory, investments in Joint Ventures, goodwill, receivables and option deposit forfeitures, including, without limitation, any losses from the write-off or forfeiture of option deposits, whether in the form of cash or a Letter of Credit), minus, to the extent included in Consolidated Net Income, (i) extraordinary gains realized other than in the ordinary course of business, (ii) all non-cash gains and credits and (iii) interest income, all calculated for the Loan Parties (and excluding the Mortgage Banking Subsidiaries and any other Subsidiary of the Borrower that is not a Loan Party) on a consolidated basis.
Consolidated EBITDA
"" means a Housing Unit owned by a Loan Party as to which such Loan Party has a bona fide contract of sale, in a form customarily employed by such Loan Party and reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, entered into not more than 15 months (or, in the case of a condominium Housing Unit, 24 months) prior to the date of determination with a Person who is not an Affiliate of a Loan Party, under which contract no defaults then exist; that in the case of any Housing Unit the purchase of which is to be financed in whole or in part by a loan insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Veterans Administration, the minimum down payment shall be the amount (if any) required under the rules of the relevant agency.
Housing Unit Under Contract
provided, however,
"" means Entitled Land upon which construction of Improvements has commenced but not been completed and for which: (a) to the extent required, a performance bond, surety or other security has been issued to and in favor of and unconditionally accepted by each local agency and all relevant Governmental Authorities, including any municipal utility district in which the Real Estate is situated with regard to all work to be performed pursuant to each and all of said subdivision
Land Under Development
 
improvement agreements or other agreements; (b) all material necessary plans have been approved by all relevant Governmental Authorities for the installation of any and all Improvements required to be installed upon such Real Estate; (c) all material and non-discretionary necessary permits have been issued for the installation of said Improvements; and (d) utility services necessary for construction of Improvements and residential dwelling units and the operation thereon for the purpose intended will be available to such Real Estate upon completion of the Improvements and there exists a binding obligation on the part of each and every utility company to deliver necessary utility services to such Real Estate.
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, properties, assets, condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, or prospects of (i) the Loan Parties, taken as a whole, or (ii) if so specified, the Borrower or any Guarantor, (b) the ability of any Loan Party to perform any of its obligations under the Loan Documents, or (c) the validity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or the rights or remedies of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders thereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of the financial condition, events or circumstances described in the Borrower's unaudited balance sheet and income statement for the period ending on November 30, 2007 heretofore furnished to the Lenders and/or the Borrower's report on Form 10Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2007 constitutes or will constitute a Material Adverse Effect.
Material Adverse Effect
(b) The following definitions are added to of the Credit Agreement.
Article 1
"" is defined in .
Borrowing Availability Covenant
Section 7.02(d)
"" is defined in .
Borrowing Availability Test
Section 5.02(a)(vi)
"" is defined in .
Borrowing Base Covenant
Section 7.02(a)
"" means (i) short-term obligations of, or fully guaranteed by, the United States of America, (ii) commercial paper rate A-1 or better by S&P or P-1 or better by Moody's, (iii) demand deposit accounts maintained in the ordinary course of business, (iv) certificates of deposit issued by and time deposits with commercial banks (whether domestic or foreign) having capital and surplus in excess of $100,000,000, in each case that the same provides for payment of both principal and interest (and not principal alone or interest alone) and is not subject to any contingency regarding the payment of principal or interest and (v) money market funds substantially all the assets of which are described in the preceding clauses.
Cash Equivalents
provided
"" means the period from November 30, 2007 to November 30, 2009 (both inclusive).
JV Debt Waiver Period
"" is defined in .
JV Cross-Default Limitation
Section 9.01(d)
"" means the maximum contractual liability (whether actual or contingent) from recourse obligations, repayment guaranties and Maintenance Guaranties of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries with respect to Indebtedness (other than Joint Venture Non-Recourse Indebtedness) of any Joint Venture.
Recourse JV Obligations
 
"" means cash and Cash Equivalents of the Loan Parties that are free and clear of all Liens and not subject to any restrictions on the use thereof to pay Indebtedness and other obligations of the applicable Loan Party.
Unrestricted Cash
(c) The following definitions are deleted from of the Credit Agreement: Borrowing Base Limitation, Commitment and Acceptance, Commitment Increase and New Lender.
Article 1
3. . The grid set forth on is amended and restated in its entirety as follows (without in any way amending or modifying any other part of , including without limitation the portion thereof amended pursuant to Section 2(c) of the First Amendment):
Pricing
Exhibit F
Exhibit F
 
4. is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 4.03
Section 4.03 . The Borrower heretofore has provided to the Lenders (i) the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of November 30, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the 12-month period ended on that date, audited and reported upon by Deloitte & Touche, an independent registered public accounting firm (the "Borrower Audited Financial Statements"), and (ii) the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of August 31, 2007, and the consolidated statements of earnings and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the three-month period ended on that date, unaudited but certified to be true and accurate (subject to normal year-end audit adjustments) by the President and an Authorized Financial Officer of the Borrower (the "Borrower Unaudited Financial Statements"). Those financial statements and reports (subject, in the case of the Borrower Unaudited Financial Statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments), and the related notes and schedules (if any), (a) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, (b) present fairly the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, (c) show all material liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and
Financial Statements
 
its Subsidiaries as of that date (including, without limitation, liabilities for taxes and material commitments), and (d) present fairly the consolidated shareholders' equity, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at the date and for the period covered thereby.
5. . (a)  is hereby amended: (a) to strike the word "and" at the end of , (b) to strike the period at the end of  and replace it with "; and" and (c) to add the new following ;
Conditions
Section 5.02(a)
clause iv
clause (v)
clause (vi)
(vi) At any time at which the Borrower does not have an Investment Grade Rating from at least two of the Rating Agencies, the making of the Advance or issuance of the Facility Letter of Credit will not result in (A) the sum of the aggregate outstanding amount of all Borrowing Base Debt exceeding the Borrowing Base (the ""); or (B) a breach of the Borrowing Base Covenant.
Borrowing Availability Test
(b) is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 5.02(b)
(b) Each Borrowing Notice with respect to each such Advance and each Letter of Credit Request shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that all of the conditions contained in  above have been satisfied, and a representation and warranty by Borrower to the best of Borrower's knowledge that all of the conditions contained in above have been satisfied.
Section 5.02(a)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v)
Section 5.02(a)(vi)
6. . (a)  is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Reporting
Section 6.04(d)
(d) at the same time at which Borrower is required to furnish a report with respect to the Borrowing Base under Section 6.04(i) (but only at such times as required under the last clause of this subparagraph (d)), a report, in reasonable detail and in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, setting forth, as of the end of that quarter, with respect to each Project owned by the Loan Parties, (i) the number of Housing Unit Closings, (ii) the number of Housing Units either completed or under construction, specifying the number thereof that are Completed Housing Units and (iii) the number of Housing Units Under Contract, , , that the foregoing report shall only be required if, as of the last day of the applicable quarter or fiscal year, the Borrower does not have an Investment Grade Rating from at least one of the three Rating Agencies;
provided
however
(b) is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 6.04(i)
(i) the following reports: (A) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters, and within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the quarter ending August 31, 2006 and fiscal year ending November 30, 2006), a report which (subject to the last sentence of this ) shall include the information and
subsection (i)
 
calculations provided for in attached hereto and such other condition in reasonable detail and be in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, with calculations indicating that the Borrower is in compliance, as of the last day of such quarterly or annual period, as the case may be, with the provisions of and of this Agreement; without limiting the generality of the foregoing (but subject to the last sentence of this ), the Borrower shall provide to the Lenders a report containing the calculations necessary to indicate that the Borrower is in compliance with the provisions of (if applicable) and , including (if applicable) a certification of the outstanding principal amount of all loans and advances made by any Loan Party to each of the applicable Mortgage Banking Subsidiaries, as the case may be, and that all such loans and advances are duly evidenced by the Mortgage Banking Subsidiaries Note in the possession of Administrative Agent; (B) subject to the last sentence of this , within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters, and within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the quarter ending November 30, 2007), a report in form and substance satisfactory to Administrative Agent calculating the Borrowing Base, Borrowing Base Debt, Borrowing Base Covenant and Borrowing Availability Covenant as of the last day of such fiscal quarter or annual period, as the case may be; and (C) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters, and within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the fiscal year ending November 30, 2007), a report, in reasonable detail and in form and substance satisfactory to Administrative Agent, setting forth, as of the end of that fiscal quarter or annual period, as the case may be, any defaults arising under Indebtedness or Contingent Obligations in respect of Joint Ventures, as well as a description of such defaults (which description must include, without limitation, the following information: the name of the Project affected by the default, the amount of the loan or other obligation under which the default occurred, the amount of the Loan Parties' obligations in respect of such defaulted loan or other obligation, the amount in dispute with respect to the default, the date of the default and length of any applicable grace periods, and the general status of the default, including any actions taken or intended to be taken to cure the default and, to the Borrower's knowledge, any actions taken by the applicable lender or other creditor with respect to the default). The reports furnished pursuant to this  shall each be certified to be true and correct by an Authorized Financial Officer of the Borrower and shall also contain such Authorized Financial Officer's certification that (x) in the case of the reports provided for in  above, the Borrower is in full compliance with the provisions of of this Agreement and (y) in the case of the reports provided for in  above, the Borrower is in full compliance with the Borrowing Base Covenant and the Borrowing Availability Covenant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the reports evidencing compliance with , and shall only be required if, as of the last day of the applicable quarter or fiscal year, the Borrower does not have an Investment Grade Rating from at least one of the three Rating Agencies; and the reports provided for in  above shall be required within 45 days after the first three fiscal quarters of Borrower and within 75 days after the fourth fiscal quarter of Borrower, if, as of the last day of the applicable fiscal quarter, the Borrower does not have an Investment Grade Rating from at least two of the three Rating Agencies; and
Exhibit H
Articles VI
VII
subsection (i)
Sections 6.09
7.14
subsection (i)
subsection (i)
clause (A)
Article VII
clause (B)
Sections 6.09
7.08
clause (B)
 
(c) The information and calculations provided for in will be modified to conform to the amendments of the covenants provided for in this Amendment.
Exhibit H
7. . (a)  of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Covenants
Section 7.01
Section 7.01 . Permit Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth at any time commencing November 30, 2007 to be less than the sum of (a) $2,800,000,000, (b) an amount equal to the amount (if any) by which (i) 50% of the cumulative amount of positive Consolidated Net Income of the Loan Parties for each fiscal quarter of the Borrower ending after November 30, 2007 for which the Loan Parties, taken as a whole, had Consolidated Net Income exceeds (ii) the aggregate amount paid by the Borrower after November 30, 2007 to purchase or redeem its equity Securities, (c) an amount equal to 50% of the aggregate amount of the increase in Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth resulting from the issuance of equity Securities of the Borrower after November 30, 2007, (d) the amount of any actual tax valuation allowance taken in accordance with GAAP after November 30, 2007 on the Borrower's financial statement. For purposes of this , the term "Consolidated Net Income," when used in respect of any period, shall not include any loss for such period.
Minimum Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
plus
plus
minus
Section 7.01
(b) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 7.02(a)
(a) . At any time at which the Borrower does not have an Investment Grade Rating from at least two of the Rating Agencies, permit the sum of the aggregate outstanding amount of all Borrowing Base Debt to exceed the sum of the Borrowing Base plus the Unrestricted Cash of the Loan Parties in excess of $500,000,000 (the "").
Borrowing Base Covenant
Borrowing Base Covenant
(c) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following as the new last sentence of Section 7.02(b)(i):
Section 7.02(b)(i)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event a tax valuation allowance is first taken on Borrower's financial statement anytime in Borrower's fiscal year 2008 or the first quarter of Borrower's fiscal year 2009, then the Permitted Leverage Ratio shall not be decreased in accordance with subsection (A) or (B) herein for the fiscal quarter in which such tax valuation allowance is taken.
(d) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following as a new :
Section 7.02
subsection 7.02(d)
(d) . At any time at which (i) the Borrower does not have an Investment Grade Rating from at least two of the Rating Agencies and (ii) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower any Loans are outstanding, permit the sum of the aggregate outstanding amount of all Borrowing Base Debt to exceed the Borrowing Base, in each case as of the last day of such fiscal quarter (the ""). A default in respect of the Borrowing Availability Covenant may be cured either (A) by repayment of the lesser of (1) the amount of all outstanding Loans and (2) a
Borrowing Availability Covenant
Borrowing Availability Covenant
 
principal amount of the Loans equal to the amount by which the Borrowing Base Debt exceeded the Borrowing Base as of the last day of such fiscal quarter or (B) delivery to Administrative Agent of a report, certified by an Authorized Financial Officer of the Borrower, evidencing that (x) the Borrowing Base (as determined (i) for Unrestricted Cash, as of the end of the Business Day immediately preceding the delivery of such certified report and (ii) for all other assets in the Borrowing Base, as of the last day of the most recent month for which information is available to make such determination) equals or exceeds (y) the sum of the aggregate outstanding amount of all Borrowing Base Debt (as determined as of the end of the Business Day immediately preceding the delivery of such certified report).
(e) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 7.08
Section 7.08 . At any time at which the Borrower does not have an Investment Grade Rating from at least one of the three Rating Agencies, permit the total number of Housing Units owned by the Loan Parties, including Housing Units under construction, but excluding model Housing Units and Housing Units Under Contract, at any time to exceed 45% of the total number of Housing Unit Closings during the immediately preceding 12-month period, provided that Housing Unit Closings shall include closings of the sale of housing units by entities that were acquired, and became Loan Parties, during the applicable period.
Housing Units
(f) Section  is hereby deleted from the Credit Agreement.
7.15
(g) The following new is added to the Credit Agreement:
Section 7.17
Section 7.17 . Permit the outstanding amount of all Letters of Credit (whether issued pursuant to the Agreement or otherwise) of the Borrower and the other Loan Parties (other than Letters of Credit that are (a) Performance Letters of Credit or (b) fully secured by cash collateral held by the issuer of such Letter of Credit) to exceed $600,000,000.
Limitation on Financial Letters of Credit
(h) The following new is hereby added to the Credit Agreement:
Section 7.18
Section 7.18 . Permit Recourse JV Obligations to exceed the following amounts at the following times:
Limitation on Recourse JV Obligations
 
 
The provisions of this shall not limit Recourse JV Obligations after November 30, 2009.
Section 7.18
8. . and  are hereby amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Events of Default
Sections 9.01(d)
(e)
(d) default shall be made with respect to any Indebtedness or Contingent Obligations of any Loan Party (other than the Loans hereunder, Non-Recourse Indebtedness and Indebtedness of a Loan Party to another Loan Party; and other than Indebtedness or Contingent Obligations in respect of Joint Ventures not exceeding $150,000,000 in the aggregate (the "")) beyond any applicable period of grace, or default shall be made with respect to the performance of any other obligation incurred in connection with any such Indebtedness or Contingent Obligations beyond any applicable period of grace, or default shall be made with respect to any other liability, and such Indebtedness, Contingent Obligation or other liability described in this equals or exceeds $10,000,000, and the effect of any of the foregoing defaults described in this is to accelerate the maturity of such Indebtedness, Contingent Obligation or liability or to cause such Indebtedness, Contingent Obligation or liability to become due prior to its stated maturity, or any such Indebtedness, Contingent Obligation or liability shall not be paid when due and such default shall not have been remedied or cured by such Loan Party or waived by the obligee;
JV Cross-Default Limitation
Section 9.01(d)
Section 9.01(d)
(e) default shall be made in the due observance or performance of any of the provisions of or or any other covenant, agreement or condition on the part of any Loan Party to be performed under or in connection with this Agreement or any Loan Document, and such default shall have continued for a period of thirty (30) days after the Borrower has knowledge or notice of the occurrence thereof or is required under this Agreement to provide a certificate, report or other document with respect to compliance with or default with respect to such covenant, agreement or condition;
Article VI
Article VII
9. . This Amendment shall be effective as of the date ("") upon which the following conditions are satisfied:
Conditions Precedent
Amendment Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Borrower and the Required Lenders a counterpart of this Amendment signed on behalf of each such party.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Guarantors the Consent and Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as .
Exhibit A
 
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents, certificates and legal opinions as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization or formation, existence and good standing of the Borrower, the authorization of this Amendment and any other legal matters relating to the Borrower, the Agreement of this Amendment, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Amendment Effective Date, including reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder or under the Credit Agreement.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Amendment Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Upon effectiveness of this Amendment, all amendments of the Agreement contained in this Amendment shall be deemed to be in effect since November 30, 2007.
10. .
Representations and Warranties
The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that, taking into account the terms of this Amendment, as of the date hereof:
(i) The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in of the Credit Agreement are true and correct, , that for the purposes hereof, the reference in of the Credit Agreement to "Borrower Audited Financial Statements" shall be deemed to refer to the annual audited financial statements most recently delivered by the Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof and the reference in of the Credit Agreement to "Borrower Unaudited Financial Statements" shall be deemed to refer to the quarterly unaudited financial statements most recently delivered by the Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof; and
Article IV
provided, however
Section 4.03
Section 6.04(a)
Section 4.03
Section 6.04(b)
(ii) There exists no Event of Default or Unmatured Default.
11. . The Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, is hereby ratified and remains in full force and effect.
Ratification
12. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement and any of the parties hereto may execute this Amendment by signing any such counterpart.
Counterparts
13. . This Amendment and the First Amendment are each a Loan Document.
Loan Documents
14. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws (and not the law of conflicts) of the State of New York but giving effect to federal laws applicable to national banks.
Choice of Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower and the Lenders have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2007 Fourth Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2007 Fiscal Year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2-2-2
, one of the nation's largest homebuilders, today reported results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended November 30, 2007. Fourth quarter net loss in 2007 was $1.3 billion, or $7.92 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $195.6 million, or $1.24 per diluted share, in 2006. The net loss for the year ended November 30, 2007 was $1.9 billion, or $12.31 per diluted share, compared to net earnings of $593.9 million, or $3.69 per diluted share ($3.76 per basic share).
Miami, January 24, 2008  Lennar Corporation (NYSE: LEN and LEN.B)
Stuart Miller, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lennar Corporation, said, "While we are hopeful that recent interest rate moves by the Federal Reserve and recent plans proffered by the Federal government will have a stabilizing impact on the housing market, market conditions remained depressed and, in fact, continued a downward slide through the end of our fourth quarter."
"Accordingly, our strategy has been to aggressively reconcile our asset valuations to the reality of existing market conditions and to remain primarily focused on cash generation by aggressively converting inventory into cash. As is reflected in our year-end numbers, we have taken meaningful steps along these lines."
Mr. Miller continued, "To that end, we have continued to price homes to current market conditions, build-out our inventory, deliver our backlog and maintain low inventory levels. We have significantly reduced our operations in each market to reflect the sales pace of the market."
"Additionally, we have finalized a number of strategic land and joint venture transactions and walked away from option deposits in order to generate or protect cash to fortify our balance sheet. As a result, our land inventory and homes under construction have declined throughout the second half of 2007."
"As a by-product of our strategic fourth quarter moves, we have generated losses that have resulted in the receipt of a cash tax refund of $852 million subsequent to the close of the quarter."
Mr. Miller concluded, "As we look ahead to 2008, we are not expecting market conditions to improve, and perhaps might continue to decline in the near term. Nevertheless, the strength of our balance sheet, bolstered by the cash generated through our fourth quarter strategic moves, will keep us well positioned to weather these turbulent times. Additionally, our management focus on right-sizing our business, revising our product offering and reducing construction costs, together with our restated land positions that reflect current market conditions, will provide the springboard from which we will rebuild margins once the market does stabilize."
3-3-3
Homebuilding
Revenues from home sales decreased 51% in the fourth quarter of 2007 to $2.0 billion from $4.0 billion in 2006. Revenues were lower primarily due to a 49% decrease in the number of home deliveries and a 4% decrease in the average sales price of homes delivered in 2007. New home deliveries, excluding unconsolidated entities, decreased to 6,810 homes in the fourth quarter of 2007 from 13,285 homes last year. In the fourth quarter of 2007, new home deliveries were lower in each of the Company's homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other, compared to 2006. The average sales price of homes delivered decreased to $291,000 in the fourth quarter of 2007 from $302,000 in 2006, primarily due to higher sales incentives offered to homebuyers ($58,800 per home delivered in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to $47,300 per home delivered last year).
Gross margins on home sales excluding FAS 144 inventory valuation adjustments were $240.4 million, or 12.1%, in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to $576.6 million, or 14.4%, in the same quarter of 2006. Gross margin percentage on home sales decreased compared to last year in all of the Company's homebuilding segments primarily due to higher sales incentives offered to homebuyers. Gross margins on home sales were $15.6 million, or 0.8%, in the fourth quarter of 2007, which included $224.8 million of FAS 144 inventory valuation adjustments, compared to gross margins on home sales of $336.8 million, or 8.4%, in the fourth quarter of 2006, which included $239.8 million of FAS 144 inventory valuation adjustments. Gross margins on home sales excluding FAS 144 valuation adjustments is a non-GAAP financial measure disclosed by certain of the Company's competitors and has been presented because the Company finds it useful in evaluating its performance and believes that it helps readers of the Company's financial statements compare its operations with those of its competitors.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were reduced by $185.5 million, or 38%, in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to the same period last year, primarily due to reductions in associate headcount and variable selling expenses. As a percentage of revenues from home sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 15.1% in the fourth quarter of 2007, from 12.1% in 2006. The 300 basis point increase was primarily due to lower revenues.
4-4-4
Loss on land sales totaled $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007, which included $740.4 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments on the inventory acquired by the Morgan Stanley land investment venture discussed below, $229.7 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments and $217.6 million of write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to 12,500 homesites under option that the Company does not intend to purchase. In the fourth quarter of 2006, loss on land sales totaled $119.9 million, which included $33.3 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments and $111.1 million of write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to 9,400 homesites that were under option.
In November 2007, the Company and Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund II, L.P., an affiliate of Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc., formed a strategic land investment venture to acquire, develop, manage and sell residential real estate. The Company acquired a 20% ownership interest and 50% voting rights in the land investment venture. Concurrent with the formation of the land investment venture, the Company sold a diversified portfolio of its land to the venture for $525 million. The properties acquired by the new entity consist of approximately 11,000 homesites in 32 communities located throughout the country. The properties sold by the Company had a net book value of approximately $1.3 billion. As part of the transaction, the Company entered into option agreements and obtained rights of first offer providing the Company the opportunity to purchase certain finished homesites. The exercise price of the options is based on a fixed percentage of the future home price. The Company has no obligation to exercise these options and cannot acquire a majority of the entity's assets. The Company is managing the land investment venture's operations and receives fees for its services. The Company will also receive disproportionate distributions if the investment venture exceeds certain financial targets.
Due to the Company's continuing involvement, the transaction did not qualify as a sale under GAAP; thus, the inventory remained on the Company's balance sheet as of November 30, 2007. In connection with the transaction, the Company recorded a FAS 144 valuation adjustment of $740.4 million on the inventory acquired by the investment venture.
Equity in loss from unconsolidated entities was $194.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, which included $191.5 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments related to assets of the Company's investments in unconsolidated entities, compared to equity in loss from unconsolidated entities of $59.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, which included $109.7 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments related to assets of the Company's investments in unconsolidated entities.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recorded goodwill impairments of $173.7 million related to its homebuilding operations.
5-5-5
 
Management fees and other expense, net, totaled $83.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, which included $85.8 million of valuation adjustments, compared to management fees and other income, net, of $9.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, net of $14.5 million of valuation adjustments.
Minority interest income, net was $1.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared to minority interest expense of $1.4 million, in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Sales of land, equity in loss from unconsolidated entities, management fees and other income (expense), net and minority interest income (expense), net may vary significantly from period to period depending on the timing of land sales and other transactions entered into by the Company and unconsolidated entities in which it has investments.
Financial Services
Operating loss for the Financial Services segment was $18.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to operating earnings of $42.9 million last year. The decline in profitability was due to overall weakness in the housing market, which led to a decrease in volume and transactions for the mortgage and title operations compared to last year.
Corporate General and Administrative Expenses
Corporate general and administrative expenses were reduced by $1.7 million, or 5%, in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to the same period last year. As a percentage of total revenues, corporate general and administrative expenses increased to 1.6% in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to 0.8% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower revenues.
Homebuilding
Revenues from home sales decreased 36% in the year ended November 30, 2007 to $9.5 billion from $14.9 billion in 2006. Revenues were lower primarily due to a 33% decrease in the number of home deliveries and a 6% decrease in the average sales price of homes delivered in 2007. New home deliveries, excluding unconsolidated entities, decreased to 31,582 homes in the year ended November 30, 2007 from 47,032 homes last year. In the year ended November 30, 2007, new home deliveries were lower in each of the Company's homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other, compared to 2006. The average sales price of homes delivered
6-6-6
 
decreased to $297,000 in the year ended November 30, 2007 from $315,000 in 2006, primarily due to higher sales incentives offered to homebuyers ($48,000 per home delivered in 2007, compared to $32,000 per home delivered in 2006).
Gross margins on home sales excluding inventory valuation adjustments were $1.3 billion, or 13.9%, in the year ended November 30, 2007, compared to $3.0 billion, or 20.3%, in 2006. Gross margin percentage on home sales decreased compared to last year in all of the Company's homebuilding segments primarily due to higher sales incentives offered to homebuyers. Gross margins on home sales were $570.7 million, or 6.0%, in the year ended November 30, 2007, which included $747.8 million of FAS 144 inventory valuation adjustments, compared to gross margins on home sales of $2.7 billion, or 18.4%, in the year ended November 30, 2006, which included $280.5 million of FAS 144 inventory valuation adjustments.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were reduced by $396.6 million, or 22%, in the year ended November 30, 2007, compared to the same period last year, primarily due to reductions in associate headcount and variable selling expenses. As a percentage of revenues from home sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 14.5% in the year ended November 30, 2007, from 11.9% in 2006. The 260 basis point increase was primarily due to lower revenues.
Loss on land sales totaled $1.7 billion in the year ended November 30, 2007, which included $740.4 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments on the inventory acquired by the Morgan Stanley land investment venture previously discussed, $426.9 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments and $530.0 million of write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to 36,900 homesites under option that the Company does not intend to purchase. In the year ended November 30, 2006, loss on land sales totaled $30.0 million, which included $69.1 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments and $152.2 million of write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to 24,200 homesites that were under option.
Equity in loss from unconsolidated entities was $362.9 million in the year ended November 30, 2007, which included $364.2 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments related to the assets of the Company's investments in unconsolidated entities, compared to equity in loss from unconsolidated entities of $12.5 million in the year ended November 30, 2006, which included $126.4 million of FAS 144 valuation adjustments related to the assets of the Company's investments in unconsolidated entities last year.
7-7-7
During the year ended November 30, 2007, the Company recorded goodwill impairments of $190.2 million related to its homebuilding operations.
Management fees and other expense, net, totaled $76.0 million in the year ended November 30, 2007, which included $132.2 million of valuation adjustments, compared to management fees and other income, net, of $66.6 million in the year ended November 30, 2006, net of $14.5 million of valuation adjustments.
Minority interest expense, net was $1.9 million and $13.4 million, respectively, in the years ended November 30, 2007 and 2006.
Sales of land, equity in loss from unconsolidated entities, management fees and other income (expense), net and minority interest expense, net may vary significantly from period to period depending on the timing of land sales and other transactions entered into by the Company and unconsolidated entities in which it has investments.
In February 2007, the Company's LandSource joint venture admitted MW Housing Partners as a new strategic partner. As part of the transaction, the joint venture obtained $1.6 billion of non-recourse financing, which consisted of a $200 million five-year Revolving Credit Facility, a $1.1 billion six-year Term Loan B Facility and a $244 million seven-year Second Lien Term Facility. The transaction resulted in a cash distribution to the Company of $707.6 million, but reduced the Company's resulting ownership of LandSource to 16%. If LandSource reaches certain financial targets, the Company will have a disproportionate share of the entity's future positive net cash flow. As a result of the recapitalization, the Company recognized a pretax gain of $175.9 million in 2007 and could potentially recognize additional profits in future years, in addition to profits from its continuing ownership interest.
Financial Services
Operating earnings for the Financial Services segment were $6.1 million in the year ended November 30, 2007, compared to $149.8 million last year. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in profitability from both the segment's mortgage and title operations and $28.4 million of partial write-offs of land seller notes receivable. The decline in profitability was due to the overall weakness in the housing market, which led to a decrease in volume and transactions for the mortgage and title operations compared to last year.
Corporate General and Administrative Expenses
Corporate general and administrative expenses were reduced by $20.1 million, or 10%, in the year ended November 30, 2007, compared to the same period last year. As a percentage of total revenues, corporate general and administrative expenses increased to 1.7% in the year ended November 30, 2007, compared to 1.2% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower revenues.
8-8-8
Amendment to Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility
The Company has completed an amendment to its senior unsecured revolving credit facility, that modified certain covenants, which included minimum tangible net worth, borrowing base and maximum leverage ratio, as well as added a new covenant to reduce the recourse indebtedness of joint ventures in which the Company participates. Under this amendment, the maximum amount the Company can borrow was reduced from $3.1 billion to $1.5 billion.
Lennar Corporation, founded in 1954, is one of the nation's leading builders of quality homes for all generations. The Company builds affordable, move-up and retirement homes primarily under the Lennar brand name. Lennar's Financial Services segment provides primarily mortgage financing, title insurance and closing services for both buyers of the Company's homes and others. Previous press releases and further information about the Company may be obtained at the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's website, www.lennar.com.
Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking statements," as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations, strategies and prospects. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that these statements do not relate strictly to historical or current matters. Rather, forward-looking statements relate to anticipated or expected events, activities, trends or results. Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred, these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause our actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements. These factors include those described under the caption "" in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended November 30, 2006. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Risk Factors
A conference call to discuss the Company's fourth quarter earnings will be held at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, January 24, 2008. The call will be broadcast live on the Internet and can be accessed through the Company's website at www.lennar.com. If you are unable to participate in the conference call, the call will be archived at www.lennar.com for 90 days. A replay of the conference call will also be available later that day by calling 203-369-1032 and entering 3950468 as the confirmation number.
9-9-9
 
 
10-10-10
 
11-11-11
 
12-12-12
 
Of the total deliveries listed above, 234 and 1,701, respectively, represent deliveries from unconsolidated entities for the three months and year ended November 30, 2007, compared to 721 and 2,536 deliveries in the same periods last year.
 
Of the total new orders listed above, 123 and 1,091, respectively, represent new orders from unconsolidated entities for the three months and year ended November 30, 2007, compared to 488 and 1,921 new orders in the same periods last year.
 
Of the total homes in backlog listed above, 364 represents homes in backlog from unconsolidated entities at November 30, 2007, compared to 1,089 homes in backlog at November 30, 2006.
 
Of the total dollar value of homes in backlog listed above, $182,664 represents the backlog dollar value from unconsolidated entities at November 30, 2007, compared to $478,707 of backlog dollar value at November 30, 2006.
Lennar's reportable homebuilding segments and homebuilding other consist of homebuilding divisions located in the following states:
 
13-13-13
 
 


