FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20081113113550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 7, 2008, Lennar Corporation (the "Company") amended its senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility"). The amendment gives the Company greater flexibility under the borrowing covenants, but increases the interest rate (which is LIBOR based) and reduces the total amount of the Credit Facility (which reduces the Company's cost of maintaining the facility). The amended terms provide for, among other things:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement dated July 21, 2006, the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated August 21, 2007, the Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated January 23, 2008 and the Third Amendment to Credit Agreement dated November 7, 2008, which govern the Credit Facility. The Third Amendment to Credit Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
This THIRD AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT ("Amendment"), dated as of November 7, 2008, among LENNAR CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), the Lenders that are identified on the signature pages hereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "Administrative Agent").
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Lenders identified on the signature pages hereto, certain other Lenders and Administrative Agent are parties to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of July 21, 2006 (as amended by First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated August 21, 2007 (the "First Amendment") and Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of January 23, 2008 (the "Second Amendment") and as it may be amended, renewed and restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement") (all capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings given such terms in the Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS, the Borrower and the Lenders desire to amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth;
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1. . Effective as of the Third Amendment Date, the Aggregate Commitment is hereby reduced to $1,100,000,000, and of the Credit Agreement is amended, restated and replaced in its entirety with the attached hereto.
Aggregate Commitment
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
2. .
Definitions
(a) New definitions of "Designated Lender" and "Third Amendment Date" are added in correct alphabetical order to, and the definitions of "Aggregate Commitment," "Aggregate Letter of Credit Commitment," "Alternate Base Rate," "Applicable Margin," "Borrowing Base" and "JV Debt Waiver Period" are amended and restated in their entirety in, of the Credit Agreement, each to read as follows:
Article 1
"" means the aggregate Commitments, but in no event greater than (a) $1,100,000,000 unless and until the date on which a compliance certificate delivered pursuant to reflects that the Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth is less than $1,600,000,000 and (b) thereafter, $900,000,000, as any such amount shall be reduced from time to time pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Aggregate Commitment
Section 6.04(i)
"" means the lesser of (a) the Aggregate Commitment and (b) $1,000,000,000, as any such amount shall be reduced from time to time pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Aggregate Letter of Credit Commitment
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to (a) the greatest of (i) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and, (ii) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1% and (iii) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one
 
month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) plus 1%, provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on the Reuters BBA Libor Rates Page 3750 (or on any successor or substitute page of such page) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day plus (b) the Applicable Margin. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate, respectively.
"" means a rate per annum equal to the "Applicable Margin" as determined from time to time pursuant to the Pricing Grid.
Applicable Margin
"" means, from time to time, the sum of the following amounts, all as reflected from time to time in accordance with GAAP consistently applied in the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower: (a) 100% of the Unrestricted Cash of the Loan Parties up to a maximum of $750,000,000 (with any excess cash being excluded from the Borrowing Base); (b) 100% of the Net Housing Unit Proceeds due to any Loan Party at closing as a result of the consummation of the sale of any Housing Unit, which Net Housing Unit Proceeds have been paid to the closing agent handling such sale but which have not yet been received by such Loan Party; , that if, and to the extent that, such Net Housing Unit Proceeds which are reported as outstanding on the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower are not received by such Loan Party on or before the tenth (10th) day following the end of any such fiscal quarter, such Net Housing Unit Proceeds shall not be included in the Borrowing Base; (c) 90% of the Net Book Value of all Housing Units Under Contract; (d) 75% of the Net Book Value of all Housing Units (including, without limitation, model Housing Units) that are not subject to a contract for sale; (e) 70% of the Net Book Value of all Finished Lots; (f) 50% of the Net Book Value of all Land Under Development; and (g) 30% of the Net Book Value of all Unimproved Entitled Land, that the sum of the amounts determined pursuant to  and  shall not exceed 40% of the Borrowing Base (with any excess being excluded from the Borrowing Base); that notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided herein, any asset which is encumbered by a Lien (other than a Lien described in ), ,  or  of the definition of "Permitted Liens") shall not be included in the calculation of the Borrowing Base pursuant to  through  above.
Borrowing Base
provided, however
provided
clauses (f)
(g)
provided further,
clauses (b
(c)
(e)
(j)
clauses (a)
(g)
"" means any Lender, as determined by the Administrative Agent, that shall (a) be a Defaulting Lender (as defined in , (b) have failed to fund any participation in a Facility Letter of Credit or Swing Line Loan, (c) otherwise have failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (d) (i) have become insolvent or (ii) have become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding or have had a receiver, conservator, trustee or custodian appointed for it, or shall have taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
Designated Lender
Section 13.06(c)
 
"" means the period from November 30, 2007 through the Termination Date.
JV Debt Waiver Period
"" means November 7, 2008.
Third Amendment Date
(b) The definition of "" is amended to move the word "and" from immediately prior to clause (k) to immediately after clause (k) and to insert thereafter a new clause (l) to read as follows:
Permitted Lien
(l) Liens on assets of Mortgage Banking Subsidiaries securing obligations of Mortgage Banking Subsidiaries.
3. . The Pricing Grid appearing as to the Credit Agreement is amended to read as set forth on to this Amendment.
Pricing Grid
Exhibit F
Schedule 2
4. . The information and calculations provided for in are modified to conform to the amendments of the covenants provided for in this Amendment.
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit H
5. .
The Credits
(a) of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 2.24
SECTION 2.24. . In the event a Lender (the "Affected Lender") is a Non-Consenting Lender under , a non-consenting Lender under or a Designated Lender, the Borrower may, upon written notice to such Affected Lender and to the Administrative Agent, require such Affected Lender to assign, and such Affected Lender shall assign, within five Business Days after the date of such notice, to one or more assignees selected by the Borrower and that are Eligible Assignees and otherwise comply with the provisions of (each a "Replacement Lender"), all of such Affected Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including without limitation its Commitments and all Loans owing to it) in accordance with . With respect to any such assignment, the Affected Lender shall concurrently with such assignment receive payment in full of all amounts due and owing to it hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents with respect to the Loans and Commitments so assigned, including without limitation, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Loans owed to such Affected Lender, together with accrued interest thereon through the date of such assignment, amounts payable to such Affected Lender under Article III with respect to such Loans and all fees payable to such Affected Lender hereunder with respect to such Loans and Commitments so assigned. Any assignment to a Replacement Lender pursuant to the provisions of this shall be in accordance with the provisions of hereof. In no event shall any Lender have any obligation to issue a new or increased Commitment to replace all or any part of any Commitment of any Non-Consenting Lender, non-consenting Lender under or Designated Lender.
Replacement of Certain Lenders
Section 2.23
Section 13.06(b)
Section 12.02
Section 12.02
Section 2.24
Section 12.02
Section 13.06(b)
 
(b) A new is added immediately after to read as follows:
Section 2.25
Section 2.24
SECTION 2.25. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Designated Lender, then:
Designated Lenders
(a) The Borrower (i) agrees, within 45 days following notice from the Administrative Agent until such Designated Lender ceases to be a Designated Lender under this Agreement, to establish and, thereafter, to maintain a special collateral account (the "Swing Line Collateral Account") at the Administrative Agent's office at the address specified pursuant to , in the name of the Borrower but under the sole dominion and control of the Administrative Agent, (ii) grants to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders, solely as security for repayment of such Designated Lender's Pro Rata Share of outstanding Swing Line Loans, a security interest in and to the Swing Line Collateral Account and any funds that may thereafter be deposited therein and (iii) agrees to maintain in the Swing Line Collateral Account an amount equal to such Designated Lender's Pro Rata Share of outstanding Swing Line Loans as evidenced in each compliance certificate delivered pursuant to ;
Article XIII
Section 6.04(i)
(b) The Borrower (i) agrees, within 45 days following notice from the Administrative Agent until such Designated Lender ceases to be a Designated Lender under this Agreement, to establish and, thereafter, to maintain a Letter of Credit Collateral Account in accordance with as if an Event of Default had occurred, (ii) grants to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders, as security for such Designated Lender's Pro Rata Share of all Facility Letter of Credit Obligations, a security interest in the Letter of Credit Account and any funds that may be deposited therein and (iii) agrees to maintain in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account an amount equal to such Designated Lender's Pro Rata Share of all Facility Letter of Credit Obligations, regardless of whether any Facility Letters of Credit have then been drawn, as evidenced in each compliance certificate delivered pursuant to ;
Section 2.18(h)
Section 6.04(i)
(c) So long as any Lender is a Designated Lender, the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan and no Issuer shall be required to issue, amend or increase any Facility Letter of Credit unless it is satisfied that the related exposure will be 100% covered by Commitments of non-Designated Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Borrower in accordance with this ; and
Section 2.25
(d) In connection with any request from the Borrower to the Lenders to permit the removal of any Designated Lender pursuant to clause (ii) of , the Lenders, excluding such Designated Lender, consent to such request. In no event shall any Lender have any obligation to issue a new or increased Commitment to replace all or any part of any Commitment of any Designated Lender. If the Aggregate Credit Exposure following removal of a Designated Lender exceeds the Aggregate Commitment, (A) the Borrower shall pay, on the date on which the Commitment of a Designated Lender terminates, Loans in
Section 13.06(b)
 
the amount necessary to cause such Aggregate Credit Exposure to equal but not exceed the Aggregate Commitment (as so reduced) and (B) if the outstanding Facility Letter of Credit Obligations exceed the Aggregate Commitment (as so reduced), the Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent on such date an amount equal to the amount by which the outstanding Facility Letter of Credit Obligations exceed the Aggregate Commitment (as so reduced), which funds shall be held in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account in accordance with and subject to the terms of as if an Event of Default had occurred.
Section 2.18(h)
6. . of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Representations and Warranties
Section 4.08
SECTION 4.08. . Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is a party to any agreement or instrument or is subject to any charter or other restrictions that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default in the performance, observance or fulfillment of any of the obligations, covenants or conditions contained in any agreement or instrument to which it is a party that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and in the other Loan Documents will not cause any Loan Party to be in material default thereof.
Agreements
7. . (a)  of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Covenants
Section 7.01
Section 7.01. . Permit Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth at any time to be less than the greater of (a) $1,300,000,000 and (b) the total of (i) $2,330,000,000 (ii) cumulative deferred tax valuation allowance as of the date of calculation, (iii) an amount equal to 50% of the cumulative amount of positive Consolidated Net Income of the Loan Parties for each fiscal quarter of the Borrower ending after August 31, 2008 for which the Loan Parties, taken as a whole, had Consolidated Net Income (excluding Consolidated Net Income realized from the reversal of any deferred tax valuation allowance) (iv) the aggregate amount paid by the Borrower after August 31, 2008 to purchase or redeem its equity Securities, (v) an amount equal to 50% of the aggregate amount of the increase in Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth resulting from the issuance of equity Securities of the Borrower after November 30, 2009.
Minimum Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
minus
plus
minus
plus
(b) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 7.02(a)
(a) . At any time at which the Borrower does not have an Investment Grade Rating from at least two of the Rating Agencies, permit the sum of the aggregate outstanding amount of all Borrowing Base Debt to exceed the sum of the Borrowing Base plus the Unrestricted Cash of the Loan Parties in excess of $750,000,000 (the ").
Borrowing Base Covenant
Borrowing Base Covenant"
 
(c) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 7.02(b)
(b) . At any time, permit the Leverage Ratio to exceed (i) fifty-five percent (55%) as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending after the Third Amendment Date through and including November 30, 2009 or (ii) fifty-two and one-half percent (52.5%) as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending thereafter.
Maximum Leverage Ratio
(d) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 7.05
Section 7.05. . Purchase or otherwise acquire, hold or invest in the Securities (whether Capital Stock or instruments evidencing debt) of, make loans or advances to, enter into any arrangements for the purpose of providing funds or credit to, or make any Equity Investment in, any Person which is not a Loan Party on the Closing Date or a Subsidiary which becomes a Guarantor upon the making of the investment (or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do any of the foregoing), except for: (i) (A) Investments in or loans or advances to (l) Joint Ventures to which the Borrower or a Subsidiary is a party and (2) Subsidiaries (other than the Mortgage Banking Subsidiaries) that are not Guarantors; and (B) Investments in or loans or advances to the Mortgage Banking Subsidiaries, that the sum of the aggregate of all Investments, loans and advances outstanding at any time under  does not exceed (1) until and including November 30, 2009, 60% of Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth, (2) from and including December 1, 2009 through August 30, 2010, 55% of Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth or (3) thereafter, 50% of Adjusted Consolidated Tangible Net Worth; and (ii) (A) purchases of direct obligations of the government of the United States of America or any agency thereof, or obligations unconditionally guaranteed by the United States of America; (B) certificates of deposit of any bank, organized or licensed to conduct a banking business under the laws of the United States or any state thereof having capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than $100,000,000; (C) Investments in commercial paper which, at the time of acquisition by the Borrower or a Subsidiary, is accorded an "A" or equivalent rating by any of the Rating Agencies or any other nationally recognized credit rating agency of similar standing; (D) investments in publicly traded, readily marketable securities traded on a recognized national exchange or over-the-counter; (E) loans or advances by the Borrower or a Guarantor to, or Securities or Indebtedness of, a real estate or homebuilding company to be acquired by the Borrower for the purpose of obtaining control of specific homebuilding assets of that homebuilding company, that to the extent that such loans, advances or Indebtedness exceed (in the aggregate) $100,000,000, they are secured by Mortgages on land, homes under construction and/or homes inventory of such real estate or homebuilding company; and (F) loans by the REIT Subsidiary to other Loan Parties.
Investments
provided
clause (A)
provided, however,
(e) of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 7.16(b)
(b) . Agree with any third party not to create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien
No Agreement for Negative Pledge
 
securing the Obligations on or of any of its property, real or personal, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except that that any Mortgage Banking Subsidiary may agree not to create, assume or suffer to exist Liens on any of its property, real or personal, whether now owned or hereafter acquired.
(f) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 7.18
Section 7.18. . Permit Recourse JV Obligations to exceed the following amounts at the following times:
Limitation on Recourse JV Obligations
 
8. . This Amendment shall be effective as of the date ("") upon which the following conditions are satisfied:
Conditions Precedent
Amendment Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Borrower and the Required Lenders a counterpart of this Amendment signed on behalf of each such party.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Guarantors the Consent and Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as .
Exhibit A
 
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents, certificates and legal opinions as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization or formation, existence and good standing of the Borrower, the authorization of this Amendment and any other legal matters relating to the Borrower, the Agreement or this Amendment, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Amendment Effective Date, including reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder or under the Credit Agreement.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Amendment Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Upon effectiveness of this Amendment, all amendments of the Agreement contained in this Amendment shall be deemed to be in effect since the Third Amendment Date.
9. . The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that, taking into account the terms of this Amendment, as of the date hereof:
Representations and Warranties
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in of the Credit Agreement are true and correct, , that for the purposes hereof, the reference in of the Credit Agreement to "Borrower Audited Financial Statements" shall be deemed to refer to the annual audited financial statements most recently delivered by the Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof and the reference in of the Credit Agreement to "Borrower Unaudited Financial Statements" shall be deemed to refer to the quarterly unaudited financial statements most recently delivered by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.04(b) of the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof; and
Article IV
provided, however
Section 4.03
Section 6.04(a)
Section 4.03
(b) There exists no Event of Default or Unmatured Default.
10. . The Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, is hereby ratified and remains in full force and effect.
Ratification
11. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement and any of the parties hereto may execute this Amendment by signing any such counterpart.
Counterparts
12. . This Amendment, the First Amendment and the Second Amendment are each a Loan Document.
Loan Documents
13. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws (and not the law of conflicts) of the State of New York but giving effect to federal laws applicable to national banks.
Choice of Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower and the Lenders have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


