FILE:LEN/LEN-8K-20100628165452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 23, 2010, the Board of Directors of Lennar Corporation (the "Company") elected Theron I. ("Tig") Gilliam, Jr. to serve on the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Gilliam was not elected pursuant to an arrangement or understanding with any other person and he has not engaged in any transactions with the Company. A press release announcing Mr. Gilliam's election is included as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
, one of the nation's largest homebuilders, announced that the Company's Board of Directors has appointed Tig Gilliam, Regional Head of North America at Adecco Group, to serve as an independent member of the Board of Directors.
MIAMI, June 28, 2010  Lennar Corporation (NYSE: LEN and LEN.B)
Mr. Gilliam's appointment increases the size of the Company's Board to nine members, and the number of "independent" directors, as defined under the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Standards, to eight.
Mr. Gilliam joined the Adecco Group in March 2007 as Country Manager for the USA and Canada and was appointed as the Regional Head of North America on Oct. 1, 2009. Prior to joining Adecco, Mr. Gilliam was a partner and the Global and Supply Chain Management Leader for IBM Global Business Services. Mr. Gilliam spent 15 years working with PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting where he led client engagement in operational improvement, technology enablement, organizational change and performance management.
"We are pleased to add an individual with Tig Gilliam's exceptional experience and qualifications to our Board of Directors," said Sidney Lapidus, Lead Director of the Board of Directors of Lennar Corporation. "We believe that Tig's diverse experience in operational improvement, human resources and business (or professional) services management will enhance Lennar's ability to capitalize on the opportunities available to homebuilders as the industry recovers from its downturn."
Mr.Gilliam holds an MBA from Columbia University and an MS in Systems Engineering from the University of Virginia's School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
2-2-2
 
Lennar Corporation, founded in 1954, is one of the nation's leading builders of quality homes for all generations. The Company builds affordable, move-up and retirement homes primarily under the Lennar brand name. Lennar's Financial Services segment provides primarily mortgage financing, title insurance and closing services for both buyers of the Company's homes and others. Lennar's Rialto Investments segment is focused on distressed real estate asset investments, asset management and workout strategies. Previous press releases and further information about the Company may be obtained at the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's website, www.lennar.com.
Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking statements," as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that these statements do not relate strictly to historical or current matters. Rather, forward-looking statements relate to anticipated or expected events, activities, trends or results. Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred, these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause our actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements. These factors include those described under the caption "" in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended November 30, 2009. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements, except as required by Federal securities laws.
Risk Factors


