FILE:C/C-8K-20020606123258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) May 30, 2002 Citigroup Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9924 52-1568099 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (212) 559-1000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
CITIGROUP INC. Current Report on Form 8-K Item 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS. Exhibits: Exhibit No. Description ----------- ----------- 1.01 Terms Agreement, dated May 30, 2002, among the Company and Salomon Smith Barney Inc., Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, Lehman Brothers Inc., Loop Capital Markets, LLC, McDonald Investments Inc., A KeyCorp Company, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, UBS Warburg LLC, U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc. and Wachovia Securities, Inc., as Underwriters, relating to the offer and sale of the Company's 6.625% Subordinated Notes due June 15, 2032. 4.01 Form of Note for the Company's 6.625% Subordinated Notes due June 15, 2032. 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: June 6, 2002 CITIGROUP INC. By: /s/ Guy R. Whittaker --------------------- Guy R. Whittaker Treasurer 3

EXHIBIT 1.01 CONFORMED --------- TERMS AGREEMENT --------------- May 30, 2002 Citigroup Inc. 399 Park Avenue New York, New York 10043 Attention: Treasurer --------- Ladies and Gentlemen: We understand that Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its debt securities (the "Securities"). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, we, as underwriters (the "Underwriters"), offer to purchase, severally and not jointly, the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite our respective names on the list attached as Annex A hereto at 97.776% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from the date of issuance. The Closing Date shall be June 6, 2002, at 8:30 A.M. at the Corporate Law offices of the Company located at 425 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043. The Securities shall have the following terms: Title: .................... 6.625% Subordinated Notes due 2032 Maturity: ................. June 15, 2032 Interest Rate: ............ 6.625% per annum Interest Payment Dates: ... June 15 and December 15, commencing December 16, 2002 Initial Price to Public: .. 98.651% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from the date of issuance Redemption Provisions: .... The Securities are not redeemable by the Company prior to maturity, except upon the occurrence of certain events involving United States taxation, as set forth in the Prospectus Supplement, dated May 30, 2002, to the Prospectus, dated March 30, 2001. Record Date: .............. The May 31 or November 30 preceding each Interest Payment Date
Additional Terms: The Securities shall be issuable as Registered Securities only. The Securities will be initially represented by one or more global Securities registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), the Euroclear System and Clearstream Banking, societe anonyme, or their respective nominees, as described in the Prospectus Supplement relating to the Securities. Beneficial interests in the Securities will be shown on, and transfers thereof will be effected only through, records maintained by such entities and their respective participants. Owners of beneficial interests in the Securities will be entitled to physical delivery of Securities in certificated form only under the limited circumstances described in the Prospectus Supplement. Principal and interest on the Securities shall be payable in United States dollars. All provisions of Article Eleven of the Indenture relating to defeasance shall apply to the Securities. All the provisions contained in the document entitled "Primerica Corporation-Debt Securities - Underwriting Agreement - Basic Provisions" and dated January 12, 1993 (the "Basic Provisions"), a copy of which you have previously received, are, except as indicated below, herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if the Basic Provisions had been set forth in full herein. Terms defined in the Basic Provisions are used herein as therein defined. Basic Provisions varied with respect to this Terms Agreement: (a) all references to Primerica Corporation and Travelers Group Inc. shall refer to Citigroup Inc.; (b) in the thirteenth line of the first paragraph, delete "March 15, 1987, between Primerica Corporation, a New Jersey corporation formerly known as American Can Company ("old Primerica"), and The Bank of New York, as trustee (such trustee or such other trustee as may be named for the Securities, being hereinafter referred to as the "Trustee"), as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 15, 1988, among old Primerica, Primerica Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Holdings") and the Trustee, the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 31, 1991 between Holdings and the Trustee, and the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 9, 1992 among the "Company, Holdings and the Trustee" and insert in lieu thereof "April 12, 2001, between Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (such trustee or such other trustee as may be named for the Securities, being hereinafter referred to as the "Trustee")"; (c) in the second line of Section 2(a), delete "(33-55542), including a prospectus" and insert in lieu thereof "(333-57364), including a prospectus" and any reference in the Basic Provisions to the "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to be a reference to such registration statement on Form S-3; (d) in the third paragraph of Section 3, delete the phrase "certified or official bank check or checks in New York Clearing House (next day)" and insert in lieu thereof "wire transfer of federal or other same day"; (e) in the fifth paragraph of Section 3, delete the phrase "certified or official bank check in New York Clearing House (next day)" and insert in lieu thereof "wire transfer of federal or other same day"; (f) in the fourteenth line of the third paragraph of Section 3, delete the word "definitive" and insert in lieu thereof "global";
(g) in the ninth line of Section 6(a), delete "such registration statement when it became effective, or in the Registration Statement," and insert in lieu thereof "the Registration Statement"; (h) In the eighth line of Section 6(b), delete "in any part of such registration statement when it became effective, or in the Registration Statement," and insert in lieu thereof "the Registration Statement"; and (i) in the sixth line of Section 10, delete "65 East 55th Street, New York, New York 10022," and insert in lieu thereof "399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043." The Company agrees to use its best efforts to have the Securities approved for listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The Underwriters hereby agree in connection with the underwriting of the Securities to comply with the requirements set forth in any applicable sections of Rule 2720 of the Conduct Rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Each Underwriter further agrees and hereby represents that: (a) it has not offered or sold, and, prior to the expiration of the period of six months from the Closing Date for the issuance of the notes, will not offer or sell any Securities to persons in the United Kingdom, except to those persons whose ordinary activities involve them in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments, as principal or agent, for the purposes of their businesses or otherwise in circumstances that do not constitute an offer to the public in the United Kingdom for the purposes of the Public Offers of Securities Regulations 1995, as amended (the "Regulations"); (b) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ("FSMA"), with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom; (c) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and it will only communicate or cause to be communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of FSMA) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of the notes in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of FSMA does not apply to Citigroup; (d) it will not offer or sell any Securities directly or indirectly in Japan or to, or for the benefit of any Japanese person or to others, for re-offering or re-sale directly or indirectly in Japan or to any Japanese person except under circumstances which will result in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and guidelines promulgated by the relevant governmental and regulatory authorities in effect at the relevant time. For purposes of this paragraph, "Japanese person" means any person resident in Japan, including any corporation or other entity organized under the laws of Japan; (e) it is aware of the fact that no German selling prospectus (Verkaufsprospekt) has been or will be published in respect of the sale of the Securities and that it will comply with the Securities Selling Prospectus Act (the "SSPA") of the Federal Republic of Germany(Wertpapier- Verkaufsprospektgesetz). In particular, each underwriter has undertaken not to engage in public offering (offentliche Anbieten) in the Federal Republic of Germany with respect to any Securities otherwise than in accordance with the SSPA and any other act replacing or supplementing the SSPA and all the other applicable laws and regulations;
(f) the Securities are being issued and sold outside the Republic of France and that, in connection with their initial distribution, it has not offered or sold and will not offer or sell, directly or indirectly, any Securities to the public in the Republic of France, and that it has not distributed and will not distribute or cause to be distributed to the public in the Republic of France the Prospectus Supplement, the Prospectus or any other offering material relating to the Securities; and (g) it and each of its affiliates has not offered or sold, and it will not offer or sell, the Securities by means of any document to persons in Hong Kong other than persons whose ordinary business it is to buy or sell shares or debentures, whether as principal or agent, or otherwise in circumstances which do not constitute an offer to the public within the meaning of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Chapter 32 of the Laws of Hong Kong). In addition to the legal opinions required by Sections 5(c) and 5(d) of the Basic Provisions, the Underwriters shall have received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special U.S. tax counsel to the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that although the discussion set forth in the Prospectus Supplement under the heading "United States Federal Income Tax Considerations For Non-United States Holders" does not purport to discuss all possible United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to non-United States holders of the Securities, such discussion constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to non-United States holders of the Securities. John R. Dye, Esq., Associate General Counsel of the Company, is counsel to the Company. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is special U.S. tax counsel to the Company. Dewey Ballantine LLP is counsel to the Underwriters. Please accept this offer no later than 9:00 o'clock p.m. Eastern Standard Time on May 30, 2002 by signing a copy of this Terms Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to us, or by sending us a written acceptance in the following form:
"We hereby accept your offer, set forth in the Terms Agreement, dated May 30, 2002, to purchase the Securities on the terms set forth therein." Very truly yours, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY INC. BEAR, STEARNS & CO. INC. LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED BANC ONE CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. BNP PARIBAS SECURITIES CORP. CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON CORPORATION LOOP CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC MCDONALD INVESTMENTS INC., A KEYCORP COMPANY UBS WARBURG LLC U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY INC. WACHOVIA SECURITIES, INC. By: SALOMON SMITH BARNEY INC. By: /s/ JEFFREY A. DRAKE ---------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Drake Title: Vice President ACCEPTED: CITIGROUP INC. By: /s/ CHARLES E. WAINHOUSE -------------------------- Name: Charles E. Wainhouse Title: Assistant Treasurer
ANNEX A NAME OF UNDERWRITER PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF 2032 NOTES - -------------------- ------------------------------ Salomon Smith Barney Inc. $830,000,000 Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. 30,000,000 Lehman Brothers Inc. 30,000,000 Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated 30,000,000 Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. 10,000,000 BNP Paribas Securities Corp. 10,000,000 Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation 10,000,000 Loop Capital Markets, LLC 10,000,000 McDonald Investments Inc., a KeyCorp Company 10,000,000 UBS Warburg LLC 10,000,000 U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc. 10,000,000 Wachovia Securities, Inc. 10,000,000 10,000,000 ---------- TOTAL $1,000,000,000 ==============

Exhibit 4.01 This Subordinated Note is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depository named below or a nominee of the Depository. This Subordinated Note is not exchangeable for Subordinated Notes registered in the name of a Person other than the Depository or its nominee except in the limited circumstances described herein and in the Indenture, and no transfer of this Subordinated Note (other than a transfer of this Subordinated Note as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository) may be registered except in the limited circumstances described herein. Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (the "Depository"), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein. THE SUBORDINATED NOTES ARE NOT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS OR DEPOSITS BUT ARE UNSECURED OBLIGATIONS OF CITIGROUP INC. THE SUBORDINATED NOTES ARE NOT INSURED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION OR ANY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCY OR INSTRUMENTALITY. CITIGROUP INC. 6.625% SUBORDINATED NOTES DUE JUNE 15, 2032 REGISTERED REGISTERED CUSIP: ISIN: Common Code: No. R- $ CITIGROUP INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $__________ on June 15, 2032 and to pay interest thereon from and including June 6, 2002 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually, on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing December 15, 2002, at the rate of 6.625% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Subordinated Note is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 31 and November 30 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holder on such Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Subordinated Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent Record Date, such subsequent Record Date to be not less than five days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to holders of Subordinated Notes of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Subordinated Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. Interest hereon will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. If either an Interest Payment Date or the Maturity of the Subordinated Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date or Maturity will be the next succeeding Business Day. If a date for payment of interest or principal on the Subordinated Notes falls on a day that is not a business day in the place of payment, such payment will be made on the next succeeding business day in such place of payment as if made on the date the payment was due. No interest will accrue on any amounts payable for the period from and after the due date for payment of such principal or interest. For these purposes, "Business Day" means any day which is a day on which commercial banks settle payments and are open for general business in The City of New York. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Subordinated Note will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in The City of New York. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Subordinated Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee or by an authenticating agent on behalf of the Trustee by manual signature, this Subordinated Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. 2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal. Dated: June 6, 2002 CITIGROUP INC. By: Specimen ----------------- Title: Treasurer ATTEST: By: - ------------------- Assistant Secretary 3
This is one of the Subordinated Notes of the series issued under the within-mentioned Indenture. Dated: June 6, 2002 BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A. as Trustee By:_________________________________ Name: Title: -or- CITIBANK, N.A., as Authenticating Agent By:_________________________________ Name: Title: 4
This Subordinated Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company (the "Subordinated Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under the Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2001 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Subordinated Notes and of the terms upon which the Subordinated Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Subordinated Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal to $1,000,000,000. The Company covenants and agrees that the indebtedness evidenced by the Subordinated Notes is subordinate and junior in right of payment to all Senior Indebtedness (as defined in the Indenture) to the extent provided in the Indenture, and each holder of Subordinated Notes, by his or her acceptance thereof, likewise covenants and agrees to the subordination provided in the Indenture (including Article Fourteen thereof) and shall be bound by the provisions thereof. In the event that the Company shall default in the payment of any principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Senior Indebtedness when the same becomes due and payable after any applicable grace period, whether at maturity or at a date fixed for prepayment or by declaration or otherwise, then, unless and until such default shall have been cured or waived or shall have ceased to exist, no direct or indirect payment (in cash, property, securities, by set-off or otherwise) shall be made or agreed to be made on account of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the indebtedness evidenced by the Subordinated Notes, or in respect of any redemption, retirement or other acquisition of any of the Subordinated Notes, except that holders of Subordinated Notes may receive and retain (x) securities of the Company or any other corporation provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment the payment of which is subordinate, at least to the extent provided in these subordination provisions with respect to the indebtedness evidenced by the Subordinated Notes, to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness at the time outstanding and to any securities issued in respect thereof under any such plan of reorganization or readjustment and (y) payments made from a defeasance trust created pursuant to Article Eleven of the Indenture. In the event of: (i) any insolvency, bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation, reorganization, readjustment, composition or other similar proceeding relating to the Company, its creditors or its property, (ii) any proceeding for liquidation, dissolution or other winding up of the Company, voluntary or involuntary, whether or not involving insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings, 5
(iii) any assignment by the Company for the benefit of creditors, or (iv) any other marshalling of the assets of the Company, all Senior Indebtedness (including any interest thereon accruing after the commencement of any such proceedings) shall first be paid in full before any payment or distribution, whether in cash, securities or other property, shall be made to any Holder of any of the Subordinated Notes on account thereof (except as provided in the next sentence). Any payment or distribution, whether in cash, securities or other property (other than (x) securities of the Company or any other corporation provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment the payment of which is subordinate, at least to the extent provided in these subordination provisions with respect to the indebtedness evidenced by the Subordinated Notes, to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness at the time outstanding and to any securities issued in respect thereof under any such plan of reorganization or readjustment and (y) payments made from a defeasance trust created pursuant to Article Eleven of the Indenture), which would otherwise (but for these subordination provisions) be payable or deliverable in respect of the Subordinated Notes shall be paid or delivered directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness in accordance with the priorities then existing among such holders until all Senior Indebtedness (including any interest thereon accruing after the commencement of any such proceedings) shall have been paid in full. If an event of default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Subordinated Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Subordinated Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Subordinated Note upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth in Article Eleven thereof, which provisions apply to this Subordinated Note. The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, without the consent of the holders of Securities, to establish, among other things, the form and terms of any series of Securities issuable thereunder by one or more supplemental indentures, and, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority of the principal amount of Securities at the time Outstanding which are affected thereby, to modify the Indenture or any supplemental indenture or the rights of the holders of Securities of such series to be affected, provided that no such modification shall, without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding Security so affected, (x) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium thereon, or change any place of payment where, or the coin or currency in which any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption on or after the Redemption Date) or modify the provisions of the Indenture with respect to the subordination of the Securities in a manner adverse to the Securityholders or (y) reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of the holders of which is required for any supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose holders is required for any waiver provided for in the 6
Indenture, or (z) modify certain other provisions of the Indenture, as set forth in Section 13.02 of the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Subordinated Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Subordinated Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. This Subordinated Note is a Global Security registered in the name of a nominee of the Depository. This Subordinated Note is exchangeable for Subordinated Notes registered in the name of a person other than the Depository or its nominee only in the limited circumstances hereinafter described. Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for definitive Subordinated Notes in certificated form, this Subordinated Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository. The Subordinated Notes represented by this Global Security are exchangeable for definitive Subordinated Notes in certificated form of like tenor as such Subordinated Notes in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof only if (i) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for the Subordinated Notes or (ii) the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or (iii) the Company in its sole discretion decides to allow the Subordinated Notes to be exchanged for definitive Subordinated Notes in registered form. Any Subordinated Notes that are exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence are exchangeable for certificated Subordinated Notes issuable in authorized denominations and registered in such names as the Depository shall direct. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of definitive Subordinated Notes in certificated form is registrable in the register maintained by the Company in The City of New York for such purpose, upon surrender of the definitive Subordinated Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the registrar, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the registrar duly executed by, the holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Subordinated Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. Subject to the foregoing, this Subordinated Note is not exchangeable, except for a Global Security or Global Securities of this issue of the same principal amount to be registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to due presentment of this Subordinated Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Subordinated Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or 7
not this Subordinated Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. The Company will pay additional amounts ("Additional Amounts") to the beneficial owner of any Subordinated Note that is a non-United States person in order to ensure that every net payment on such Subordinated Note will not be less, due to payment of U.S. withholding tax, than the amount then due and payable. For this purpose, a "net payment" on a Subordinated Note means a payment by the Company or a paying agent, including payment of principal and interest, after deduction for any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge of the United States. These Additional Amounts will constitute additional interest on the Subordinated Note. The Company will not be required to pay Additional Amounts, however, in any of the circumstances described in items (1) through (13) below. (1) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is imposed or withheld solely by reason of the beneficial owner: (a) having a relationship with the United States as a citizen, resident or otherwise; (b) having had such a relationship in the past or (c) being considered as having had such a relationship. (2) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is imposed or withheld solely by reason of the beneficial owner: (a) being treated as present in or engaged in a trade or business in the United States; (b) being treated as having been present in or engaged in a trade or business in the United States in the past or (c) having or having had a permanent establishment in the United States. (3) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is imposed or withheld solely by reason of the beneficial owner being or having been, any of the following (as these terms are defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended): (a) personal holding company; (b) foreign personal holding company; (c) foreign private foundation or other foreign tax-exempt organization; (d) passive foreign investment company; (e) controlled foreign corporation or 8
(f) corporation which has accumulated earnings to avoid United States federal income tax. (4) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is imposed or withheld solely by reason of the beneficial owner owning or having owned, actually or constructively, 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company entitled to vote or by reason of the beneficial owner being a bank that has invested in a Subordinated Note as an extension of credit in the ordinary course of its trade or business. For purposes of items (1) through (4) above, "beneficial owner" means a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of the holder if the holder is an estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other entity, or a person holding a power over an estate or trust administered by a fiduciary holder. (5) Additional Amounts will not be payable to any beneficial owner of a Subordinated Note that is a: (a) fiduciary; (b) partnership; (c) limited liability company or (d) other fiscally transparent entity or that is not the sole beneficial owner of the Subordinated Note, or any portion of the Subordinated Note. However, this exception to the obligation to pay Additional Amounts will only apply to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor in relation to the fiduciary, or a beneficial owner or member of the partnership, limited liability company or other fiscally transparent entity, would not have been entitled to the payment of an Additional Amount had the beneficiary, settlor, beneficial owner or member received directly its beneficial or distributive share of the payment. (6) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is imposed or withheld solely by reason of the failure of the beneficial owner or any other person to comply with applicable certification, identification, documentation or other information reporting requirements. This exception to the obligation to pay Additional Amounts will only apply if compliance with such reporting requirements is required by statute or regulation of the United States or by an applicable income tax treaty to which the United States is a party as a precondition to exemption from such tax, assessment or other governmental charge. (7) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is 9
collected or imposed by any method other than by withholding from a payment on a Subordinated Note by the Company or a paying agent. (8) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is imposed or withheld by reason of a change in law, regulation, or administrative or judicial interpretation that becomes effective more than 15 days after the payment becomes due or is duly provided for, whichever occurs later. (9) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is imposed or withheld by reason of the presentation by the beneficial owner of a Subordinated Note for payment more than 30 days after the date on which such payment becomes due or is duly provided for, whichever occurs later. (10) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any: (a) estate tax; (b) inheritance tax; (c) gift tax; (d) sales tax; (e) excise tax; (f) transfer tax; (g) wealth tax; (h) personal property tax or (i) any similar tax, assessment or other governmental charge. (11) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment, or other governmental charge required to be withheld by any paying agent from a payment of principal or interest on a Subordinated Note if such payment can be made without such withholding by any other paying agent. (12) Additional amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is required to be made pursuant to any European Union directive on the taxation of savings income or any law implementing or complying with, or introduced to conform to, any such directive. (13) Additional Amounts will not be payable if a payment on a Subordinated Note is reduced as a result of any combination of items (1) through (12) above. 10
Except as specifically provided herein, the Company will not be required to make any payment of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any government or a political subdivision or taxing authority of such government. As used in this Subordinated Note, "United States person" means: (a) any individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States; (b) any corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States; (c) any estate if the income of such estate falls within the federal income tax jurisdiction of the United States regardless of the source of such income and (d) any trust if a United States court is able to exercise primary supervision over its administration and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all of the substantial decisions of the trust. Additionally, "non-United States person" means a person who is not a United States person, and "United States" means the United States of America, including the States of the United States of America and the District of Columbia, but excluding its territories and possessions. Except as provided below, the Subordinated Notes may not be redeemed prior to maturity. (1) The Company may, at its option, redeem the Subordinated Notes if: (a) the Company becomes or will become obligated to pay Additional Amounts as described above; (b) the obligation to pay Additional Amounts arises as a result of any change in the laws, regulations or rulings of the United States, or an official position regarding the application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or rulings, which change is announced or becomes effective on or after May 30, 2002 and (c) the Company determines, in its business judgment, that the obligation to pay such Additional Amounts cannot be avoided by the use of reasonable measures available to it, other than substituting the obligor under the Subordinated Notes or taking any action that would entail a material cost to the Company. (2) The Company may also redeem the Subordinated Notes, at its option, if: (a) any act is taken by a taxing authority of the United States on or after May 30, 2002, whether or not such act is taken in relation to the Company or any affiliate, that results in a substantial probability that the Company will or may be required to pay Additional Amounts as described above; (b) the Company determines, in its business judgment, that the obligation to pay such Additional Amounts cannot be avoided by the use of reasonable measures available to it, other than substituting the obligor under the 11
Subordinated Notes or taking any action that would entail a material cost to the Company and (c) the Company receives an opinion of independent counsel to the effect that an act taken by a taxing authority of the United States results in a substantial probability that the Company will or may be required to pay the Additional Amounts described above, and delivers to the Trustee a certificate, signed by a duly authorized officer, stating that based on such opinion the Company is entitled to redeem the Subordinated Notes pursuant to their terms. Any redemption of the Subordinated Notes as set forth in clauses (1) or (2) above shall be in whole, and not in part, and will be made at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Subordinated Notes Outstanding plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption. Holders shall be given not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior notice by the Trustee of the date fixed for such redemption. All terms used in this Subordinated Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. The Subordinated Notes are governed by the laws of the State of New York. 12


