FILE:C/C-8K-20021016160447.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) October 15, 2002 --------------------------- Citigroup Inc. ---------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9924 52-1568099 --------------- ----------- ------------------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043 ---------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (212) 559-1000 ---------------------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
[CITIGROUP LOGO] Citigroup Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS. On October 15, 2002, Citigroup Inc. reported that third quarter GAAP net income rose 23% from the comparable period last year to $3.92 billion. GAAP net income included the results for Travelers Property Casualty prior to the spin-off which was completed on August 20, 2002, as well as a $27 million restructuring reserve release and $114 million in realized losses in the company's insurance investment portfolio. Adjusted for these items, Citigroup's core income for the third quarter was $3.79 billion, a 17% increase over the third quarter of 2001. Core income per share, diluted, increased 19% to $0.74. Revenues for the company increased 10% in the quarter. Return on Common Equity was 19.4%. For the nine months ended September 30, 2002, Citigroup's GAAP net income was $12.85 billion, increasing 25% over the prior year period, with GAAP net income per share, diluted, of $2.47. Core income of $11.21 billion reflected a 14% increase, and core earnings per share, diluted, rose 14% to $2.16. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30 increased 10% to $56.8 billion. "We are exceptionally pleased with the performance of our businesses this quarter, during what has been a period of challenging business conditions," said Sanford I. Weill, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup. "We generated double-digit income growth while continuing to strengthen our reserves and capital position and reduce costs. Our revenues increased by 10% while our expenses fell by 2%. Further, this strong performance took place against the backdrop of macroeconomic challenges in Argentina and the political uncertainty in Brazil, which negatively impacted our results, as well as exceptionally weak equity markets, which have reduced the value of our proprietary investment portfolio and led to further realized losses in the insurance portfolios. The $323 million after tax gain that we realized on the sale of our building at 399 Park Avenue provided an offset to extremely poor results for our proprietary investment activities. "Our Global Consumer business has continued to extend its franchise with record income, up 13% in the quarter. The 14% income growth achieved by our Global Investment Management business reflects that business's success in overcoming the impact of declining equity markets and outperforming its industry. The Global Corporate and Investment Bank continues to lead the industry in market share and fees, ranking #1 once again in Global Underwriting and #1 in Disclosed Fees. Credit losses, however, remain high in the corporate bank and we have taken steps this quarter to build our reserve for loan losses in response to continued credit deterioration. "Foremost in our minds has been restoring the trust of our customers and shareholders, and we continue to focus our efforts on resolving the issues facing our industry. The appointment of Chuck Prince, a talented and trusted manager, as the head of our Global Corporate and Investment Bank, will help our company to accelerate necessary changes in some of our business practices. I am also very pleased that a distinguished member of our Board, Mike Masin, has joined our management team as Chief Operating Officer. Mike will also head up our newly-formed Business Practices Committee, spearheading a company-wide effort to ensure that we are at the leading edge of raising business standards in our industry. "We have made progress towards the resolution of the current regulatory scrutiny. During the quarter, we reached an agreement with the FTC regarding consumer lending practices of the former Associates, and we also resolved with the NASD issues relating to Winstar. We will continue to strive to have a constructive dialogue with regulators," said Weill.
[CITIGROUP LOGO] Highlights of the quarter included: o Revenues grew 10%, while expenses declined 2%. Expense reductions reflect a continuing focus on reducing controllable expenses across the company, including lower headcount and compensation levels in the Global Corporate and Investment Bank, further operating and technology expense reductions in Global Transaction Services, and improving operating leverage in Global Investment Management. In addition, the discontinuance of amortization of goodwill and certain intangibles in accordance with FAS 142 accounted for a $94 million after tax reduction in expenses from the third quarter of 2001. o Citigroup built its reserve for loan losses by $283 million in excess of net credit losses in the third quarter, increasing the total reserve for loan losses to $10.7 billion. Credit costs remained high in Citigroup's Global Corporate and Investment Bank. Corporate cash basis loans increased $252 million, or 6%, from the second quarter. The Global Consumer net credit loss rate declined 16 basis points from the second quarter, to 3.18%, largely reflecting improvements in the company's CitiCards portfolio. However, consumer delinquencies have increased slightly from the second quarter. o Citigroup resolved the FTC's lawsuit, regarding lending practices of the former Associates prior to its acquisition by Citigroup, for $215 million, which has largely been covered by existing reserves. Citigroup also reached a settlement with the NASD relating to Winstar. Citigroup will recognize the financial impact, if any, related to the resolution of other regulatory matters when such impact can be reasonably estimated. Any impact is not expected to be material to the company's financial condition. o The company successfully completed the spin-off of Travelers Property Casualty during the quarter, retaining an approximately 9.9% interest. The historical results of Travelers Property Casualty are now being reported as a discontinued operation. o Citigroup's return on common equity for the third quarter was 19.4% and the company's total equity, including trust preferred securities, equaled $86.9 billion at September 30, 2002. During the quarter, Citigroup repurchased 77.2 million common shares, for a total cost of $2.45 billion, bringing the total number of shares repurchased in 2002 to 133.4 million. Common shares outstanding declined 56 million from the second quarter to 5.06 billion. At quarter end, the company had $5.75 billion available for future share repurchases under existing authorizations. o GLOBAL FINANCE Magazine named Citigroup "Best Corporate Bank" and "Best Consumer Bank" in its annual survey of global banking institutions. GLOBAL CONSUMER Core income of $2.22 billion for the third quarter, up 13%. Highlights included: o CARDS, which now serves 102 million accounts in 47 countries, increased income by 21% to a record $849 million. Growth in North America Cards of 25% (which includes the card operations of Banamex) led the overall increase, with 18% revenue growth which offset higher marketing expenditures and a 35-basis point increase in the net credit loss rate over last year. Loss rates improved 61 basis points from the second quarter. Receivables grew by 5% to $111.1 billion. Also included in North America results were a $206 million addition to the loan loss reserve established in accordance with FFIEC guidance related to past due interest and late fees on the on-balance sheet credit card receivables offset by net gains recognized due to changes in estimates in the timing of revenue recognition on securitizations. In the international markets, income rose 2%, with strong growth in Japan and CEEMEA offsetting weakness in Argentina and Hong Kong. o CONSUMER FINANCE income rose 1%, as 9% income growth in North America was offset by a decline in international income of 11%. Revenue growth of 4% in North America was driven by a 7% volume increase, while expenses declined 8%. Loss rates in North America increased by 31 basis points over last year, but improved by 31 basis points from the second quarter. In international markets, strong income growth in Europe was offset by the impact of higher losses in Japan as well as volume pressure resulting from tighter underwriting standards. o RETAIL BANKING income increased 19%, reflecting strong performance across all regions, with the exception of Latin America due to the difficult operating conditions in Argentina. In North America, income growth of 25% included 27% growth at Citibanking, driven by higher deposit volumes, as well as 24% income growth for Consumer Assets, which continued to experience record levels of mortgage refinancings and substantial volume growth in student loans. International markets performed well, with income growth of 40% in Western Europe and 25% in CEEMEA. 2
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK Core income of $1.20 billion for the third quarter, down 7%. Highlights included: o CAPITAL MARKETS AND BANKING income fell 8%, as 4% revenue growth and substantial expense reductions were offset by an increase in the provision for credit losses. Growth in principal transactions revenue, led by strong performance in fixed income, as well as higher commission levels, partly offset a decline in investment banking revenues. Expenses were 10% lower than the prior year quarter and 22% lower than the second quarter, largely due to reductions in headcount and incentive compensation reflecting lower year-to-date risk-adjusted revenues. The provision for credit losses was $710 million, a $498 million increase over the third quarter of 2001, and included writeoffs on telecom and Argentina-related loans, as well as a $190 million addition to the loan loss reserve in excess of net credit losses. Additionally, the quarter's results included an $88 million reduction to revenues related to the writedown of Argentine securities. o Income for TRANSACTION SERVICES, which includes Global Securities Services and e-Business, rose 21%, as the business continued to significantly reduce expenses. Expenses declined 10% from the prior year quarter, with sizable reductions realized in the expense base, which were partly offset by higher credit costs in Argentina. Business volumes were strong, including a 15% increase in assets under custody, which helped to offset lower spreads and a decline in global market values. o PRIVATE CLIENT income declined 8% from the third quarter of 2001, as revenues were negatively impacted by lower asset-based fees and margin interest income, resulting from sharp equity market declines. As a result, annualized revenue per Financial Consultant declined 3% to $435,000. Expense reductions supported a pre-tax margin of 19%. Net flows were $7 billion in the quarter, and total client assets were $860 billion at quarter end. Assets in SSB's Bank Deposit Program totaled $40 billion. GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Core income of $435 million for the third quarter, up 14%. Highlights included: o LIFE INSURANCE AND ANNUITIES income decreased 1%. Income for Travelers Life and Annuity declined 4%, as lower net investment income was partly offset by continued growth in business volumes. Business volumes remained strong with a 5% increase in individual and group annuity account balances, despite a drop in variable annuity account balances, and 30% growth in net written life insurance premiums. International Insurance contributed $13 million, primarily reflecting the addition of Banamex and other operations in Latin America. o THE PRIVATE BANK generated record income for the third consecutive quarter, with an increase of 26% to $115 million. Revenues rose 13%, reflecting increased client trading activity, lending, and structured products activity. Client business volumes increased 5% to $157 billion. Income growth was led by a 43% increase in the U.S., as well as strong results in Asia, including Japan. o Income for ASSET MANAGEMENT, which includes Retirement Services, increased 32%, reflecting the addition of the asset management and retirement services businesses of Banamex. Assets under management grew 7% to $452 billion, including the investment portfolio of Travelers Property Casualty, which Citigroup manages on a third-party basis following the spin-off. Citigroup Asset Management's market share of proprietary channels was 37% in the Salomon Smith Barney Private Client Division, 72% in Primerica Financial Services and 42% in Citibanking North America. CITIGROUP INTERNATIONAL Core income for Citigroup's international operations, which are fully reflected in the product disclosures above, declined 16% from the prior year, largely due to higher credit losses in the Global Corporate and Investment Bank and weaker business performance in Latin America. Citigroup International contributed $972 million or 26% of the company's total core income in the third quarter. o JAPAN'S income of $364 million represented a 27% increase, led by strong results at Nikko Salomon Smith Barney, the consumer bank and the Private Bank. Contributions from the recent consumer finance acquisitions in that country also boosted results, and partly offset higher credit losses in that business. 3
[CITIGROUP LOGO] o ASIA'S income increased 29% to $355 million, led by strong customer volume growth in cards, retail banking and investment products, as well as improvements in corporate banking from a weak prior year quarter. o WESTERN EUROPE contributed $184 million in income, an 8% decline, reflecting higher corporate loan losses and lower business volume. Consumer results were strong, with income rising 37%, reflecting strong performance from the company's consumer franchises in Germany and the U.K. o CEEMEA'S income rose 19% to $175 million, led by 46% income growth for consumer, reflecting continued expansion of cards and retail banking in the region, and corporate income growth of 15%. o LATIN AMERICA posted a loss of $106 million, reflecting a $98 million reduction to revenues and a $241 million increase in the loan loss provision related to the writedown of Argentine sovereign and corporate instruments. PROPRIETARY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES AND CORPORATE/OTHER Citigroup's Proprietary Investment Activities recorded a loss of $123 million in the third quarter, which included a $323 million after tax gain on the sale of 399 Park Avenue. Results for the company's proprietary investment portfolios were negatively impacted by significantly lower market values for publicly traded securities, reflecting the continued decline in major market indexes, as well as writedowns on private equity investments primarily in Argentina and Brazil. Corporate/Other income was $56 million, reflecting lower funding costs and realized gains from the sale of fixed income securities. # # # FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain of the statements contained herein that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. The Company's actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "target," "may increase," "may fluctuate," "may result in," "are projected," and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following: general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates; the impact of the resolution of regulatory matters on the Company's financial condition; and the Company's ability to leverage the performance of its leading product franchises globally and build upon a strong local presence in every region of the world to grow market share and profitability. # # # A financial summary follows. Additional financial, statistical and business-related information, as well as business and segment trends, is included in the Financial Supplement. 4
[CITIGROUP LOGO] (A) Restructuring-related items in the 2001 first quarter related principally to severance and costs associated with the reduction of staff in the Global Corporate and Investment Bank businesses, in the 2001 second quarter related principally to severance and costs associated with the reduction of staff primarily in the Global Corporate and Investment Bank and Global Consumer businesses, in the 2001 third quarter primarily related to the acquisition of Banamex and the integration of its operations, in the 2002 first quarter primarily related to severance and costs associated with the reduction of staff in Argentina within the Latin America consumer and corporate businesses, and in the 2002 second and third quarters primarily related to reductions in the reserve due to changes in estimates. (B) Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citigroup on December 31, 2001) sold 231,000,000 shares of class A common stock at $18.50 per share in an initial public offering (IPO) on March 27, 2002. Citigroup made a tax-free distribution to its stockholders of a portion of its ownership interest in TPC on August 20, 2002. Discontinued Operations includes the operations of TPC, the $1.270 billion ($1.158 billion after-tax) gain on the IPO and income taxes on the operations and IPO gain. Citigroup remains a holder of approximately 9.9% of TPC's common equity. (C) Accounting Changes refer to the 2001 first quarter adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", as amended (SFAS 133), the 2001 second quarter adoption of EITF issue 99-20, "Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets" (EITF 99-20), and the 2002 first quarter adoption of the remaining provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142). (D) Diluted EPS from Income from Continuing Operations was $0.72 and $2.12 in the 2002 third quarter and nine months, compared to $0.62 and $1.87 in the respective 2001 periods. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 5
[CITIGROUP LOGO] (1) Excludes Proprietary Investment Activities and Corporate / Other. (2) Includes the operations of Banamex from August 6, 2001 forward. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 6
[CITIGROUP LOGO] NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 7
CITIGROUP - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- PAGE NUMBER CITIGROUP CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL SUMMARY 1 SEGMENT CORE INCOME: Product View 2 Regional View 3 SEGMENT ADJUSTED NET REVENUES: Product View 4 Regional View 5 SEGMENT DETAIL GLOBAL CONSUMER: CARDS Income Summary and Key Indicators 6 Geographic Distribution 7 CitiCards and Diners Club N.A. 8 CONSUMER FINANCE Income Summary and Key Indicators 9 Geographic Distribution 10 CitiFinancial 11 RETAIL BANKING Income Summary and Key Indicators 12 Geographic and Business Distribution 13 GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK: Income Statement 14 Revenue Details 15 Capital Markets and Banking 16 Private Client 17 Transaction Services 18 GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT: Life Insurance and Annuities 19 Private Bank 20 Asset Management 21 PROPRIETARY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES 22 Insurance Investment Portfolio 23 CITIGROUP SUPPLEMENTAL DETAIL Consolidated Statement of Income 24 Earnings Analysis - Managed Basis 25 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 26 Consumer Loan Delinquency Amounts, Net Credit Losses and Ratios 27 Reserve for Loan Losses 28 Non-Performing Assets 29 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CITIGROUP -- FINANCIAL SUMMARY (In millions of dollars, except per share amounts) CITIGROUP, THE PREEMINENT GLOBAL FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANY WITH SOME 200 MILLION CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS IN MORE THAN 100 COUNTRIES, PROVIDES CONSUMERS, CORPORATIONS, GOVERNMENTS AND INSTITUTIONS A COMPLETE RANGE OF FINANCIAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. * Preliminary - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 1
CITIGROUP -- SEGMENT CORE INCOME PRODUCT VIEW (In millions of dollars) (1) Excludes Realized Insurance Investment Portfolio Gains (Losses) primarily from the Life Insurance and Annuities, and Primerica Financial Services businesses. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 2
CITIGROUP -- SEGMENT CORE INCOME REGIONAL VIEW (In millions of dollars) (1) Excludes Proprietary Investment Activities and Corporate / Other. (2) Includes the operations of Banamex from August 6, 2001 forward. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 3
CITIGROUP -- SEGMENT ADJUSTED NET REVENUES PRODUCT VIEW (In millions of dollars) (1) Excludes Realized Insurance Investment Portfolio Gains (Losses) primarily from the Life Insurance and Annuities, and Primerica Financial Services businesses. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 4
CITIGROUP -- SEGMENT ADJUSTED NET REVENUES REGIONAL VIEW (In millions of dollars) (1) Excludes Proprietary Investment Activities and Corporate / Other. (2) Includes the operations of Banamex from August 6, 2001 forward. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 5
GLOBAL CONSUMER CARDS (In millions of dollars) (1) On a managed basis. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 6
GLOBAL CONSUMER CARDS GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION (In millions of dollars) (1) On a managed basis. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 7
GLOBAL CONSUMER CARDS CITICARDS AND DINERS CLUB N.A. - SUPPLEMENTAL DATA (In millions of dollars) (1) CitiCards is included within the North American Region of Cards and excludes Diners Club N.A., Mexico and Puerto Rico. (2) Includes delinquency and other risk-based charges. (3) Risk Adjusted Revenue is adjusted revenues less managed net credit losses. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 8
GLOBAL CONSUMER CONSUMER FINANCE (In millions of dollars) Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 9
GLOBAL CONSUMER CONSUMER FINANCE GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION (In millions of dollars) Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 10
GLOBAL CONSUMER CONSUMER FINANCE CITIFINANCIAL - SUPPLEMENTAL DATA (1) (In millions of dollars) (1) CitiFinancial is included within the North American Region of Consumer Finance and excludes Mexico and Puerto Rico. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 11
GLOBAL CONSUMER RETAIL BANKING (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes loans held for sale. (2) Represents loan products marketed by PFS; the receivables are primarily reflected in the assets of Consumer Finance. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 12
GLOBAL CONSUMER RETAIL BANKING GEOGRAPHIC AND BUSINESS DISTRIBUTION (In millions of dollars) NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 13
GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK INCOME STATEMENT (In millions of dollars) (1) Risk Adjusted Revenues represent Revenues net of Interest Expense less Provision for Credit Losses. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 14
GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK [CITIGROUP LOGO] REVENUE DETAILS (In millions of dollars) NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 15
GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK [CITIGROUP LOGO] CAPITAL MARKETS AND BANKING (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes non-convertible debt, Rule 144A non-convertible debt, Rule 144A non-convertible preferred, non-convertible preferred, preferred, taxable municipal debt, mortgage and asset backed debt, all common stock, convertible debt and convertible preferred. Excludes all closed end funds. (2) Includes all U.S. mortgage and asset backed debt, U.S. non-convertible debt, U.S. Rule 144A non-convertible and U.S. taxable municipal debt, all U.S. common stock, U.S. convertible debt and U.S. convertible preferred. Excludes all closed end funds, 144A common stock, 144A convertible stock, and 144A convertible preferred. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 16
GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK [CITIGROUP LOGO] PRIVATE CLIENT (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes some assets jointly managed with Citigroup Asset Management. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 17
GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK [CITIGROUP LOGO] TRANSACTION SERVICES (In millions of dollars) NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 18
GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT [CITIGROUP LOGO] LIFE INSURANCE AND ANNUITIES (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes general account, separate accounts and managed funds. (2) Excludes deposits of $167.0, $29.0 and $30.0 for the first, second and third quarters of 2002, respectively and $28.0, $12.0, $594.0 and $275.0 in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2001, respectively, related to Citigroup plans previously managed externally. * Excludes Realized Gain / (Losses) on Investments. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 19
GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT [CITIGROUP LOGO] PRIVATE BANK (In millions of dollars) Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 20
GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT [CITIGROUP LOGO] ASSET MANAGEMENT (1) (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes Retirement Services Businesses. (2) Includes $29, $28, $29 and $31 billion for the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2001, respectively, and $31, $29 and $28 billion for the first, second and third quarters of 2002, respectively, for Citigroup Private Bank clients. (3) Asset calculations are based on classes of such funds ranked by Morningstar. Number of funds reflects only one class per fund and are based on performance of non-money market retail funds. (4) Includes Travelers Property Casualty Corp. assets of $34 billion which Asset Management manages on a third-party basis following the spin-off. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 21
PROPRIETARY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (1) [CITIGROUP LOGO] (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes Venture Capital Activities and certain other corporate investments. (2) The 2002 third quarter includes $527 million ($323 million after-tax) related to the gain on sale of 399 Park Avenue. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 22
INSURANCE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO (1) (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes investments held by insurance companies. Excludes Travelers Property Casualty Corp. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 23
CITIGROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (In millions of dollars) (1) Restructuring-related items in the 2001 first quarter related principally to severance and costs associated with the reduction of staff in the Global Corporate and Investment Bank businesses, in the 2001 second quarter related principally to severance and costs associated with the reduction of staff primarily in the Global Corporate and Investment Bank and Global Consumer businesses, in the 2001 third quarter primarily related to the acquisition of Banamex and the integration of its operations, in the 2001 fourth quarter primarily related to reductions in the reserve due to changes in estimates, in the 2002 first quarter primarily related to severance and costs associated with the reduction of staff in Argentina within the Latin America consumer and corporate businesses, and in the 2002 second and third quarters primarily related to reductions in the reserve due to changes in estimates. (2) Other operating expenses include the amortization of goodwill and certain intangible assets totalling approximately $133 million, $135 million, $127 million and $137 million in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2001, respectively. Amortization of these assets ceased upon adoption of SFAS 142 on January 1, 2002. (3) Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citigroup on December 31, 2001) sold 231,000,000 shares of class A common stock at $18.50 per share in an initial public offering (IPO) on March 27, 2002. Citigroup made a tax-free distribution to its stockholders of a portion of its ownership interest in TPC on August 20, 2002. Discontinued Operations includes the operations of TPC, the $1.270 billion ($1.158 billion after-tax) gain on the IPO and income taxes on the operations and IPO gain. Citigroup remains a holder of approximately 9.9% of TPC's common equity. (4) Accounting Changes refer to the 2001 first quarter adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", as amended (SFAS 133), the 2001 second quarter adoption of EITF issue 99-20, "Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets" (EITF 99-20), and the 2002 first quarter adoption of the remaining provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142). NM Not meaningful Page 24
CITIGROUP EARNINGS ANALYSIS - MANAGED BASIS (In millions of dollars) (1) Other operating expenses include the amortization of goodwill and certain intangible assets totalling approximately $133 million, $135 million, $127 million and $137 million in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2001, respectively. Amortization of these assets ceased upon adoption of SFAS 142 on January 1, 2002. (2) Restructuring-related items in the 2001 first quarter related principally to severance and costs associated with the reduction of staff in the Global Corporate and Investment Bank businesses, in the 2001 second quarter related principally to severance and costs associated with the reduction of staff primarily in the Global Corporate and Investment Bank and Global Consumer businesses, in the 2001 third quarter primarily related to the acquisition of Banamex and the integration of its operations, in the 2001 fourth quarter primarily related to reductions in the reserve due to changes in estimates, in the 2002 first quarter primarily related to severance and costs associated with the reduction of staff in Argentina within the Latin America consumer and corporate businesses, and in the 2002 second and third quarters primarily related to reductions in the reserve due to changes in estimates. (3) Accounting Changes refer to the 2001 first quarter adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", as amended (SFAS 133), the 2001 second quarter adoption of EITF issue 99-20, "Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets" (EITF 99-20), and the 2002 first quarter adoption of the remaining provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142). (4) Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citigroup on December 31, 2001) sold 231,000,000 shares of class A common stock at $18.50 per share in an initial public offering (IPO) on March 27, 2002. Citigroup made a tax-free distribution to its stockholders of a portion of its ownership interest in TPC on August 20, 2002. Discontinued Operations includes the operations of TPC, the $1.270 billion ($1.158 billion after-tax) gain on the IPO and income taxes on the operations and IPO gain. Citigroup remains a holder of approximately 9.9% of TPC's common equity. NM Not meaningful Page 25
CITIGROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (1) (In millions of dollars) (1) Periods prior to September 30, 2002, include balances for Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (2) Preliminary Page 26
CONSUMER LOAN DELINQUENCY AMOUNTS, NET CREDIT LOSSES AND RATIOS (In millions of dollars, except loan amounts in billions) (1) The ratios of 90 days or more past due and net credit losses are calculated based on end-of-period and average loans, respectively, both net of unearned income. (2) Includes $251 million of loans received from the Argentine government in exchange for government bonds in the 2001 fourth quarter. These loans are included within the Life Insurance and Annuities business. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 27
RESERVE FOR LOAN LOSSES (In millions of dollars) (1) The 2001 third quarter includes the addition of $1 billion of credit loss reserves related to the acquisition of Banamex. A review of the Banamex credit portfolio was completed in the 2001 fourth quarter resulting in an increase to the allowance for credit losses. This increase does not relate to credit deterioration in the 2001 fourth quarter. Page 28
NON-PERFORMING ASSETS (In millions of dollars) (1) A cash-basis loan is defined as collateral dependent when repayment is expected to be provided solely by the underlying collateral and there are no other available and reliable sources of repayment, in which case the loans are written down to the lower of cost or collateral value. (2) JENA includes Japan, Western Europe and North America. (3) Other International includes Asia (excluding Japan), Mexico, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa. Banamex loan data from the third quarter of 2001 forward is included in Mexico. A review of the Banamex credit portfolio was completed in the 2001 fourth quarter which caused Corporate cash-basis loans to increase. This increase does not relate to credit deterioration in the 2001 fourth quarter. (4) Represents repossessed real estate, carried at lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. (5) Primarily Corporate transportation equipment, carried at lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 29
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: October 15, 2002 CITIGROUP INC. By: /s/ William P. Hannon ------------------------------- Name: William P. Hannon Title: Controller Principal Accounting Officer


