FILE:C/C-8K-20030213142743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 -------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 -------------------- Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 13, 2003 CITIGROUP INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 1-9924 No. 52-1568099 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File (IRS Employer Identification of Incorporation) Number) No.) 399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 559-1000 Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS In connection with the issuance by Citigroup Capital IX of capital securities described in the Prospectus dated February 5, 2003, our tax counsel rendered an opinion regarding certain tax matters. A copy of that opinion is filed as exhibit 99 to this report. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS (a) Not applicable. (b) Not applicable. (c) Exhibits: The following exhibit is filed herewith: Exhibit 99 Opinion regarding certain tax matters. 2
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CITIGROUP INC. Date: February 13, 2003 By: /s/ Guy R. Whittaker ------------------------------- Name: Guy R. Whittaker Title: Treasurer 3
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- Exhibit 99 Opinion regarding certain tax matters.

Exhibit 99 ---------- February 13, 2003 Citigroup Inc. 399 Park Avenue New York, New York 10043 Citigroup Capital IX 399 Park Avenue New York, New York 10043 Re: Registration Statement on Form S-3 Registration No. 333-102206 --------------------------- Ladies and gentlemen: We have acted as counsel to Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Citigroup Capital IX, a statutory trust formed under the laws of the state of Delaware (the "Trust"), in connection with the above-captioned registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on December 26, 2002, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto filed with the Commission on January 28, 2003 (such registration statement, as so amended, the "Registration Statement") for the purpose of registering (i) Capital Securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust and (ii) Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures issued by the Company to the Trust, in connection with the sale of the Capital Securities. This opinion is being provided to you in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933. In rendering our opinion set forth below, we have reviewed the Registration Statement, the prospectus thereunder dated February 5, 2003 (the "Prospectus") and such other materials as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for our opinion. In addition, we have considered the current provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, judicial decisions and Internal Revenue Service ("Service") rulings, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. A change in the authorities upon which our opinion is based could affect our conclusions. There can be no assurances, moreover, that the opinion expressed herein will be accepted by the Service or, if challenged, by a court. Based solely upon and subject to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that, although the discussion set forth in the Prospectus under the heading "UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAXATION" does not purport to discuss all possible United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Capital Securities to an initial holder of the Capital Securities, such discussion constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Capital Securities to such holder. Except as set forth above, we express no opinion to any party as to the tax consequences, whether federal, state, local or foreign, of the issuance of the Capital Securities, the Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures or of any transaction related to or
contemplated by such issuance. We disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any subsequent changes of the facts stated or assumed herein or any subsequent changes in applicable law. We hereby consent to the use of our name under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus and the filing of this opinion with the Commission as Exhibit 8.01 to the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. Very truly yours, /s/ Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP 2


