FILE:C/C-8K-20030714080128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) July 14, 2003 ------------------- Citigroup Inc. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9924 52-1568099 --------------- ----------- ------------------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (212) 559-1000 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Citigroup Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit Number -------------- 99.1 Press Release, dated July 14, 2003, issued by Citigroup Inc. 99.2 Citigroup Inc. Quarterly Financial Data Supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. On July 14, 2003, Citigroup Inc. announced its results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. A copy of the related press release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In addition, a copy of the Citigroup Inc. Quarterly Financial Data Supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 is being filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The information furnished under Item 12 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: July 14, 2003 CITIGROUP INC. By: /s/ William P. Hannon ----------------------------------- Name: William P. Hannon Title: Controller Principal Accounting Officer
Exhibit Index Exhibit Number - -------------- 99.1 Press Release, dated July 14, 2003, issued by Citigroup Inc. 99.2 Citigroup Inc. Quarterly Financial Data Supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2003.

EXHIBIT 99.1 [CITIGROUP LOGO] CITIGROUP REPORTS SECOND QUARTER NET INCOME OF $4.30 BILLION INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS UP 12% EPS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS $0.83, A 14% INCREASE OVER THE SECOND QUARTER OF 2002 REVENUES INCREASE 8% TO $19.4 BILLION New York, NY, July 14, 2003 -- Citigroup Inc. (NYSE:C) today reported net income for the three months ended June 30, 2003 of $4.30 billion. Income from continuing operations was also $4.30 billion, a 12% increase over the prior year period and a record for the company. Income per diluted share from continuing operations was $0.83 rising 14% over the second quarter of 2002. Net income rose 5% over the net income of the second quarter of 2002, which included the operating income from Travelers Property Casualty, which was subsequently spun off to shareholders. For the first six months of 2003, Citigroup's income from continuing operations increased 15% to $8.40 billion, or $1.64 per share. "Citigroup's performance this year continues to be outstanding, with 12% income growth in the second quarter driven by an 8% increase in our total revenues. We also reached an important milestone this quarter, as our total stockholders' equity and trust preferred securities exceeded $100 billion," said Sanford I.Weill, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup. "Once again, our consumer businesses delivered exceptional income growth of 18%, led by 63% growth in Retail Banking, which earned over $1 billion this quarter. Our Corporate and Investment Bank demonstrated its leading competitive position across a range of products, with market share gains and important new business wins. The Corporate and Investment Bank results reflect a record quarter in Fixed Income trading and underwriting, as well as 53% growth in EMEA. The Private Bank delivered its sixth consecutive record quarter of earnings. Further, corporate and consumer credit indicators remain encouraging," continued Weill. "More customers choose Citigroup than any other financial company in the world and they are choosing us more and more frequently, leading to top market share in the capital markets, increases in customer deposits in our global retail bank, and increasing net flows in our asset management business. We are also encouraged that talented young people joining the workforce choose Citigroup as well, as we were among the top five most desirable MBA employers as ranked by FORTUNE MAGAZINE. "We are meeting the needs of our communities as well as our customers by focusing on our commitment to diversity and social responsibility, as FORTUNE MAGAZINE also named Citigroup one of `America's 50 Best Companies for Minorities'. Citigroup along with nine other global banks recently adopted the Equator Principles, a voluntary set of guidelines for managing social and environmental issues related to the financing of development projects. We have also maintained our commitment to best-in-class corporate governance, most recently redesigning our equity programs to focus on long term ownership by instituting a two-year minimum holding period for shares received through option exercises, and we are shifting much of our equity-based compensation from options to restricted stock," said Weill. Highlights of the quarter included: - - A record level of revenues, up 8% to $19.4 billion, led by revenue growth of 24% in Retail Banking, 7% in Capital Markets and Banking and 21% in the Private Bank. - - Expenses increased 9%, or $824 million over the second quarter of 2002. Expense related to severance, the repositioning of Citigroup's business in Latin America, the additional cost of expensing options, higher pension and legal expenses, and an increase in the amortization of deferred acquisition costs in Life and Annuity together accounted for $300 million of the increase in expenses. - - Citigroup's Global Corporate and Investment Bank maintained its number one ranking in Global Debt and Equity for the seventh consecutive quarter, and continued to rank first in Disclosed Fees and Investment Grade Debt as well as posting strong positions in High Yield, Global Equities and Announced M&A.
[CITIGROUP LOGO] - - Credit quality indicators have remained stable for both the consumer and corporate portfolios. Citigroup's provision for credit losses was $2.19 billion in the second quarter. Loss rates in the Global Consumer managed loan portfolio increased by 12 basis points, to 3.26%, reflecting the seasonal nature of US card losses as well as higher losses in Germany and Japan. Consumer managed delinquencies, as measured by loans 90 days past due, were down slightly from the first quarter. In the Global Corporate and Investment Bank, the provision for loan losses increased by $182 million from the prior quarter, as a result of specific reserves being established in the quarter for several borrowers. Corporate cash basis loans increased modestly from the prior quarter due to the addition of several merchant energy, airline and telecom-related credits. Citigroup's reserve for credit losses was $11.73 billion at the end of the second quarter. - - Citigroup's stockholders' equity and trust preferred securities reached $100 billion at June 30, 2003. The company's return on equity was 19.2%. Citigroup repurchased 8.9 million shares during the second quarter, bringing the total number of shares repurchased year to date to 43.2 million. GLOBAL CONSUMER Income of $2.30 billion for the second quarter, up 18%. Highlights included: - - CARDS income increased 6% to $768 million. North America income grew 9%, as revenue increased 5% driven by 4% growth in average managed receivables. The level of managed receivables reflected changes in acquisition marketing strategies to improve yields as well as the sale of $1.7 billion in non-strategic portfolios. Expenses rose 8%, primarily related to marketing and advertising as well as initial costs for the Home Depot portfolio, which will be acquired in the third quarter. Credit loss rates improved from the prior year. International Cards income declined 7%, primarily due to a reserve release in the prior year quarter. Excluding the reserve release, income increased 12% driven by strong growth in Asia and EMEA, comparable loss rates and flat expenses. - - Income for CONSUMER FINANCE decreased 11%, to $508 million, driven by a 28% decline in International Consumer Finance income. In North America, income rose 1% with revenue growth of 7% driven by 13% receivables growth, including the auto finance business of Golden State Bancorp partly offset by a decline in insurance revenues. Expenses increased 11%, driven by higher volumes and the addition of the Golden State portfolio. Loss rates and delinquencies continued to improve from both the prior year and the first quarter. International Consumer Finance results reflected continued difficult business conditions in Japan, offsetting strong results in Europe. The portfolios in Japan contracted in the quarter due to weak loan demand and higher pay-downs and charge-offs. Credit costs continue to be adversely impacted by rising bankruptcies. International results also included a $94 million release of a tax reserve related to a settlement with tax authorities. - - RETAIL BANKING income advanced 63% to $1.05 billion. Income for North America increased 67% resulting from record earnings in the mortgage business, the addition of Golden State Bancorp and strong results in Mexico. Mortgage originations in the company's Consumer Assets Division doubled to $23.5 billion and customer deposits in Citibanking North America rose 38%, reflecting the addition of Golden State as well as organic growth. International Retail Banking income increased 52% with strong performance across most regions, particularly in Asia, which had increased investment product sales, and the reduction of losses in Argentina. GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK Income of $1.34 billion for the second quarter, up 2%. Highlights included: - - CAPITAL MARKETS AND BANKING income increased 2% to $1.2 billion, from a strong quarter in the prior year. Revenue growth of 7% was driven by record performance in fixed income, which offset lower equities revenues. Expenses rose 15%, reflecting costs associated with the repositioning of the company's business in Latin America, increased incentive compensation expense and higher legal fees. The provision for credit losses, at $286 million, increased by $24 million from the prior year. - - Income for TRANSACTION SERVICES, which includes Cash, Trade, Treasury Services, and Global Securities Services, was $187 million, a 13% decrease from the second quarter of 2002. Revenues fell 6%, reflecting lower investment gains as well as the continued decline in market values and interest rates, and a lower level of market activity as compared to the prior year. Expense growth was held to 1%, reflecting lower headcount and continued efficiency gains. Customer liability balances increased 14%, to $96 billion, while assets under custody reached $5.6 trillion, a 4% increase over the 2
[CITIGROUP LOGO] prior year. PRIVATE CLIENT SERVICES Income of $181 million for the second quarter, down 19%. Difficult equity market conditions continued to impact results. Total expenses declined 4%, and the business continued to produce an industry-leading pre-tax margin of 20%. Income rose 15% from the first quarter of 2003 as major market indexes increased during the second quarter, driving higher transaction volumes. Revenue per Financial Consultant was $467,000, declining 3% from the prior year, but up 9% from the first quarter. Client assets totaled $959 billion at the end of the second quarter, and balances in Smith Barney's bank deposit program were $42 billion. Net flows in the quarter were $9 billion, unchanged from the prior year period and an 80% increase from the first quarter. GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Income of $432 million for the second quarter, up 16%. Highlights included: - - LIFE INSURANCE AND ANNUITIES income of $190 million represented a 39% increase over the prior year, which included significant realized investment losses. Income for Travelers Life and Annuity increased 97% reflecting lower net realized losses and higher business volumes partially offset by lower net investment yields as well as higher amortization of deferred acquisition costs. Both individual and group annuity balances increased 5% over the prior year, while life insurance account balances rose 16%. International Insurance Manufacturing income fell by $32 million. - - THE PRIVATE BANK's income was $138 million, increasing 22% over the prior year, the sixth consecutive record income quarter. Revenues rose 21% on the strength of higher sales volumes of alternative investment products as well as increased client trading activity and lending. Regionally, results were strong in the US, Asia, Japan and Latin America. Client business volumes were $180 billion, a 10% increase over the second quarter of 2002. - - Income for ASSET MANAGEMENT, which includes Retirement Services, was $104 million, declining 14% from the second quarter of 2002. Revenues fell 13%, as the impact of positive net flows was offset by weakness in global equity markets as compared to a year ago and the impact of product mix changes. Continued rigorous expense management led to an 11% decline in total expenses, resulting in a pre-tax margin of 36%. Assets under management increased 12% to $493 billion, boosted by cumulative net inflows of $12 billion, positive market action in the second quarter, and the inclusion of the investment portfolio of Travelers Property Casualty, which Citigroup manages on a third party basis. Citigroup Asset Management's share of proprietary distribution channels was 73% in Primerica Financial Services, 26% in Smith Barney, and 40% in Citibanking North America. CITIGROUP INTERNATIONAL Income for Citigroup's international operations increased 8% to $1.33 billion from the second quarter of 2002. Results for the quarter, which are fully reflected in the product disclosures above, included: - - EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA (EMEA) income of $517 million advanced 36% over the prior year. Income from the corporate and investment bank rose 53% reflecting a continued positive environment for fixed income trading and underwriting and improved investment banking results combined with tight cost controls. Consumer income rose 16% to $169 million on the strength of 25% loan growth across the region. - - ASIA'S income totaled $429 million, a 10% increase over the prior year. Consumer income rose 25% on the strength of 13% revenue growth, with strong growth in cards and retail banking, led by investment product sales. Corporate and investment bank income declined 6%. - - JAPAN'S income fell 24% from the second quarter of 2002, to $204 million driven primarily by the declining results from the company's consumer finance business there, where both loan volumes and yields have continued to contract while the provision for loan losses increased. Results for the quarter included a $94 million release of a tax reserve related to settlement with tax authorities. - - LATIN AMERICA generated income of $178 million, representing a 3% decline from the prior year. Results included costs associated with the repositioning of the company's businesses in the region. Consumer results rebounded from a loss in the second quarter of 2002, as the prior year's results reflected the devaluation and ensuing credit losses in Argentina. Income for the corporate and investment bank decreased 10% due to a very strong quarter the prior year in sales and trading. 3
[CITIGROUP LOGO] PROPRIETARY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES AND CORPORATE/OTHER For the second quarter of 2003, Citigroup's Proprietary Investment Activities recorded income of $27 million reflecting both realized gains and higher public market valuations in the US partly offset by writedowns in the emerging markets portfolios. Corporate/other income was $25 million in the quarter, a $16 million decline from the prior year. Treasury results continue to benefit from low interest rates and a steep yield curve. Citigroup (NYSE: C), the preeminent global financial services company with some 200 million customer accounts in more than 100 countries, provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, insurance, securities brokerage, and asset management. Major brand names under Citigroup's trademark red umbrella include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney, Banamex, and Travelers Life and Annuity. Additional information may be found at: www.citigroup.com A financial summary follows. Additional financial, statistical and business-related information, as well as business and segment trends, is included in a Financial Supplement. Both the earnings release and the Financial Supplement are available on Citigroup's web site (http://www.citigroup.com). This document can also be obtained by calling 1-800-853-1754 within the United States or 732-935-2771 outside the United States. Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors. More information about these factors is contained in Citigroup's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CONTACTS: PRESS: LEAH JOHNSON (212) 559-9446 SHANNON BELL (212) 793-6206 INVESTORS: SHERI PTASHEK (212) 559-2718 FIXED INCOME INVESTORS: JOHN RANDEL (212) 559-5091 4
[CITIGROUP LOGO] (A) Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citigroup on December 31, 2001) sold 231,000,000 shares of its class A common stock at $18.50 per share in an initial public offering (IPO) on March 27, 2002. Citigroup made a tax-free distribution to its stockholders of a portion of its ownership interest in TPC on August 20, 2002. Discontinued Operations includes the operations of TPC, the $1.270 billion gain on the IPO ($1.061 billion after-tax recognized in the 2002 first quarter and $97 million after-tax recognized in the 2002 third quarter) and income taxes on the operations and IPO gain. Citigroup remains a holder of approximately 9.9% of TPC's common equity. (B) Accounting Change refers to the 2002 first quarter adoption of the remaining provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142). NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
[CITIGROUP LOGO] (1) Excludes Proprietary Investment Activities and Corporate / Other. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
[CITIGROUP LOGO] NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.

EXHIBIT 99.2 [CITIGROUP LOGO] CITIGROUP - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT
[CITIGROUP LOGO] CITIGROUP -- FINANCIAL SUMMARY (In millions of dollars, except per share amounts) CITIGROUP, THE PREEMINENT GLOBAL FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANY WITH SOME 200 MILLION CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS IN MORE THAN 100 COUNTRIES, PROVIDES CONSUMERS, CORPORATIONS, GOVERNMENTS AND INSTITUTIONS A COMPLETE RANGE OF FINANCIAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. * Preliminary Page 1
[CITIGROUP LOGO] CITIGROUP -- INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS PRODUCT VIEW (In millions of dollars) NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 2
[CITIGROUP LOGO] CITIGROUP -- INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS REGIONAL VIEW (In millions of dollars) (1) Excludes Proprietary Investment Activities and Corporate / Other. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 3
[CITIGROUP LOGO] CITIGROUP -- NET REVENUES PRODUCT VIEW (In millions of dollars) (1) Segment net revenues disclosed above are prepared on an owned basis in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The managed basis disclosures treat the receivables as if they had not been securitized and are still on our balance sheet, reflecting the interest revenue and expense associated with the portfolio, as well as the credit costs incurred. Although a managed basis presentation is not in conformity with GAAP, the Company believes it provides a representation of performance and key indicators of the credit card business that is consistent with the way the business is managed. For a reconciliation of managed basis revenue to GAAP revenues, see the Cards business on page 6. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 4
[CITIGROUP LOGO] CITIGROUP -- NET REVENUES REGIONAL VIEW (In millions of dollars) (1) Excludes Proprietary Investment Activities and Corporate / Other. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 5
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CONSUMER CARDS (In millions of dollars) (1) The abbreviated income statement presented above is prepared on a managed basis (a non-GAAP measure), and includes the effect of securitizations in Adjusted Revenues, Net of Interest Expense and Adjusted Provision for Credit Losses. This income statement reconciles to Income from Continuing Operations which is a GAAP measure. Securitization changes Citigroup's role from that of a lender to that of a loan servicer and removes the receivables from Citigroup's balance sheet. For securitized receivables, amounts that would otherwise be reported as net interest revenue, fee and commission revenue, and credit losses are instead components of the servicing fees earned. However, Citigroup's exposure to credit losses on the securitized receivables is contractually limited to the cash flows from the receivables. The managed basis disclosures treat the receivables as if they had not been securitized and are still on the Company's balance sheet, with related income statement amounts reported as net interest revenue, fee and commission revenue, and credit losses. Although a managed basis presentation is not in conformity with GAAP, the Company believes it provides a representation of performance and key indicators of the credit card business that is consistent with the way management reviews operating performance and allocates resources. Furthermore, investors utilize information about the credit quality of the entire managed portfolio as the results of both the held and securitized portfolios impact the overall performance of the cards business. (2) Includes accrued interest receivable. (3) Risk adjusted revenue is total revenues less net credit losses. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 6
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CONSUMER CARDS NORTH AMERICA CARDS (In millions of dollars) (1) The abbreviated income statement presented above is prepared on a managed basis (a non-GAAP measure) and includes the effect of securitizations in Adjusted Revenues, Net of Interest Expense and Adjusted Provision for Credit Losses. This income statement reconciles to Income from Continuing Operations which is a GAAP measure. For a discussion of managed basis reporting see the Cards business on Page 6. (2) Includes accrued interest receivable. (3) Risk adjusted revenue is total revenues less net credit losses. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 7
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CONSUMER CARDS INTERNATIONAL CARDS (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes accrued interest receivable. (2) Risk adjusted revenue is total revenues less net credit losses. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 8
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CONSUMER CONSUMER FINANCE (In millions of dollars) Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 9
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CONSUMER CONSUMER FINANCE NORTH AMERICA CONSUMER FINANCE (In millions of dollars) Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 10
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CONSUMER CONSUMER FINANCE INTERNATIONAL CONSUMER FINANCE (In millions of dollars) NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 11
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CONSUMER RETAIL BANKING (In millions of dollars) Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 12
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CONSUMER RETAIL BANKING NORTH AMERICA RETAIL BANKING (In millions of dollars) (1) Represents loan products marketed by Primerica Financial Services; the receivables are primarily reflected in the assets of Consumer Finance. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 13
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CONSUMER RETAIL BANKING INTERNATIONAL RETAIL BANKING (In millions of dollars) NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 14
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK INCOME STATEMENT (In millions of dollars) (1) Risk Adjusted Revenues represent Revenues net of Interest Expense less Provision for Credit Losses. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 15
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK REVENUE DETAILS (In millions of dollars) Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 16
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK CAPITAL MARKETS AND BANKING (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes non-convertible debt, Rule 144A non-convertible debt, Rule 144A non-convertible preferred, non-convertible preferred, preferred, taxable municipal debt, mortgage and asset backed debt, all common stock, convertible debt and convertible preferred. Excludes all closed end funds. (2) Includes all U.S. mortgage and asset backed debt, U.S. non-convertible debt, U.S. Rule 144A non-convertible and U.S. taxable municipal debt, all U.S. common stock, U.S. convertible debt and U.S. convertible preferred. Excludes all closed end funds, 144A common stock, 144A convertible stock, and 144A convertible preferred. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 17
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANK TRANSACTION SERVICES (In millions of dollars) NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 18
[CITIGROUP LOGO] PRIVATE CLIENT SERVICES (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes some assets jointly managed with Citigroup Asset Management Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 19
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LIFE INSURANCE AND ANNUITIES - PAGE 1 (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes pre-tax realized insurance investment portfolio gains (losses) of $16, ($182), ($148), and ($22) million, for the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2002, respectively, and ($3) and ($2) million for the first and second quarters of 2003. (2) Income from Continuing Operations before Realized Insurance Investment Portfolio Gains / ((Losses) is a non-GAAP measure. The Company believes that this presentation of income, which management uses internally to measure performance, is useful to investors because it enhances the understanding of ongoing operations and the underlying trends of the business. The timing of realized insurance investment portfolio gains and losses can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and economic factors and therefore management believes it is important to understand the impact of realized investment gains and losses in order to evaluate current operating trends. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 20
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LIFE INSURANCE AND ANNUITIES - PAGE 2 (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes general account, separate accounts and managed funds. (2) Excludes deposits related to Citigroup plans previously managed externally. NM Not meaningful Page 21
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PRIVATE BANK (In millions of dollars) (1) Client Business Volumes reflect the inclusion of Banamex beginning in the 2002 third quarter. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 22
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT ASSET MANAGEMENT (1) (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes Retirement Services Businesses. (2) Includes $29, $28, $29 and $31 billion for the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2002, respectively, and $30 and $31 billion for the first and second quarters of 2003, respectively, for Citigroup Private Bank clients. (3) Includes CAI Institutional alternative investments, Travelers Property Casualty Corp., and TAMIC AUMs. Travelers Property Casualty Corp. assets of $34 and $35 billion in the third and fourth quarters of 2002 and $39 and $40 billion for the first and second quarters of 2003 are managed by Asset Management on a third-party basis following the spin-off. (4) Asset calculations are based on classes of such funds ranked by Morningstar. Number of funds reflects only one class per fund and are based on performance of non-money market retail funds. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 23
[CITIGROUP LOGO] GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INSURANCE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO (1) (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes investments held by insurance companies. Excludes Travelers Property Casualty Corp. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 24
[CITIGROUP LOGO] PROPRIETARY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (1) (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes Venture Capital Activities and certain other corporate investments. (2) The 2002 third quarter includes $527 million ($323 million after-tax) related to the gain on sale of 399 Park Avenue. NM Not meaningful Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 25
[CITIGROUP LOGO] CITIGROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (In millions of dollars) (1) Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citigroup on December 31, 2001) sold 231,000,000 shares of its class A common stock at $18.50 per share in an initial public offering (IPO) on March 27, 2002. Citigroup made a tax-free distribution to its stockholders of a portion of its ownership interest in TPC on August 20, 2002. Discontinued Operations includes the operations of TPC, the $1.270 billion ($1.158 billion after-tax) gain on the IPO and income taxes on the operations and IPO gain. Citigroup remains a holder of approximately 9.9% of TPC's common equity. (2) Accounting Change refers to the 2002 first quarter adoption of the remaining provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142). NM Not meaningful Page 26
[CITIGROUP LOGO] CITIGROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (1) (In millions of dollars) (1) Periods prior to September 30, 2002 include balances for Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (2) Preliminary (3) Includes allowance for credit losses for letters of credit of $50, $110, $110 and $167 million for the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2002, respectively, and $167 million for the first and second quarters of 2003. NM Not meaningful Page 27
[CITIGROUP LOGO] CONSUMER LOAN DELINQUENCY AMOUNTS, NET CREDIT LOSSES AND RATIOS (In millions of dollars, except loan amounts in billions) REGIONAL VIEW (EXCLUDING COMMERCIAL MARKETS): (1) The ratios of 90 days or more past due, cash-basis loans and net credit losses are calculated based on end-of-period and average loans, respectively, both net of unearned income. (2) This table presents consumer credit information on a managed basis and shows the impact of securitizations to reconcile to a held basis. Only North America Cards from a product view and North America from a regional view are impacted. Managed basis reporting is a non-GAAP measure. Held basis reporting is the related GAAP measure. For a discussion of managed basis reporting see the Cards business on page 6. (3) Total Loans and Total Average Loans exclude certain interest and fees on credit cards of approximately $1.7 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, which are included in Consumer Loans on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 28
[CITIGROUP LOGO] RESERVE FOR LOAN LOSSES (In millions of dollars) (1) Includes loans made to Private Bank clients. (2) The 2002 fourth quarter includes the addition of $452 million of credit loss reserves related to the acquisition of Golden State Bancorp. (3) Represents additional credit reserves recorded as other liabilities on the balance sheet. Page 29
[CITIGROUP LOGO] NON-PERFORMING ASSETS (In millions of dollars) (1) Cash-basis loans for the Insurance Subsidiaries and Investment Activities businesses for the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2002 were $39, $89, $136 and $62 million, respectively, which are included in Other Assets for 2003. (2) JENA includes Japan, Western Europe and North America. (3) Other International includes Asia (excluding Japan), Mexico, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. (4) Excluding Insurance Subsidiaries and Investment Activities. (5) Represents repossessed real estate, carried at lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. (6) Other Real Estate Owned for the Insurance Subsidiaries businesses for the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2002 were $125, $123, $54 and $36 million, respectively, which is included in Other Assets for 2003. (7) Primarily transportation equipment, carried at lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. Page 30


