FILE:C/C-8K-20041208075844.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
/
/    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
/
/    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
/
/    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
/
/    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
        On December 8, 2004, Citigroup Inc. will hold an investor presentation to review its Global Consumer Business.
        Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of selected financial information presented in connection with the investor presentation. This information is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, and the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of Citigroup Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
Citigroup Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
 
Pre
dictability: Net Credit Margin
 
North America Cards
 
 
* YTD 3Q04 Annualized.
 
 - 
                 
Combining treasury, credit and revenue expertise to produce consistent NCM performance
 
 - 
                 
Producing 8% net yield on asset volume
 
 - 
                 
Managing operational expenses and delivery costs
 
 - 
                 
Resulting in superior returns and margin expansion
 
[LOGO]
 
Ret
ail Banking North America Performance
 
Net Income ($B)
 
 
 
Excludes $378MM after-tax gain on sale of Samba Financial Group recorded in Global Consumer.
(1)
         
Does not reflect the implementation of the Company's Risk Capital Allocation within and across Citigroup businesses. Such implementation would not have had a material impact on the growth rate trend presented above.
(2)
         
 
Notes: North America excludes Mexico.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information contained on this page is set forth in the appendix.
Bus
iness Units: New Disclosures
 
 
Net
Income Trends By Business
 
($MM)
 
Ach
ieved Through Superior Organic
Net Income Growth
 
$B - Net Income Growth: Organic (2/3) and Acquisitions (1/3)
 
 
Note: Results are adjusted to exclude estimated impact of key acquisitions.
Non
-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The following measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under SEC guidelines:
Income excluding the litigation charges and gain on Samba.
(i)
            
Revenues excluding gain on the sale of Samba.
(ii)
         
 
The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide a fuller understanding of ongoing operations and enhance comparability of those results in prior periods as well as demonstrating the effects of unusual charges in the quarter. The Company believes that a meaningful analysis of its financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance.  The Company believes that investors may find it useful to see these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in the Company's underlying performance.
 
Reconciliation of the GAAP financial measures to the aforementioned non-GAAP measures follows:
 
Sel
ected Investments  2004
 


