FILE:C/C-8K-20050420172127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 19, 2005, Citigroup's stockholders, upon recommendation of the Board of Directors, approved amendments to the Citigroup 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1999 Plan"). The amendments to the 1999 Plan include a 250 million-share increase in the number of shares of Citigroup common stock available for awards under the 1999 Plan, and the addition of minimum vesting periods applicable to 80% of the shares that may be subject to awards. The 1999 Plan provides for various types of equity awards to employees, officers, non-employee directors and agents of Citigroup and its subsidiaries. The types of awards that may be granted under the 1999 Plan include restricted and deferred stock, incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, and stock appreciation rights. The 1999 Plan will expire on April 30, 2009.
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 is the Citigroup 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective April 19, 2005). A brief description of the 1999 Plan is included as part of Proposal 3 in Citigroup's Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders ("Proxy Statement"), which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2005. The descriptions of the 1999 Plan contained herein and in the Proxy Statement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the 1999 Plan.
 
 
Effective April 19, 2005, and as part of the proposal to amend the 1999 Plan described above in Item 1.01, the Board of Directors terminated the Citicorp 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, the Travelers Group Capital Accumulation Plan and the Citigroup Employee Incentive Plan (the "Prior Plans") with respect to new awards. The Prior Plans provided for the same types of equity awards as the 1999 Plan. The Citicorp 1997 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Citicorp Plan") contained an "evergreen" feature, which provided that the number of shares available for grant under the Citicorp Plan would increase each January 1 by 1.5% of the number of shares of common stock (and equivalents) outstanding on the prior December 31, until the Citicorp Plan's scheduled expiration date of December 31, 2006.
 
The result of amending the 1999 Plan and terminating the Prior Plans, including the "evergreen" Citicorp Plan, is a net decrease in the number of shares of Citigroup common stock available for awards under all Citigroup equity plans. Further details regarding the amendments to the 1999 Plan and termination of the Prior Plans are contained in Proposal 3 in the Proxy Statement.
 
Outstanding awards previously granted under the Prior Plans will not be affected by termination of the Prior Plans, the terms of which shall continue to govern such previously granted awards.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
 
The purposes of the Citigroup 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") are to (i) attract and retain Employees by providing compensation opportunities that are competitive with other companies; (ii) provide incentives to those Employees who contribute significantly to the long-term performance and growth of the Company and its Subsidiaries and (iii) align Employees' long-term financial interests with those of the Company's stockholders.
 
 
The Plan became effective on April 30, 1999, following its approval by stockholders. The amended and restated Plan will become effective April 19, 2005, subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company. Subject to the approval of the amended and restated Plan by the stockholders, the Company will no longer make awards under the Prior Plans; provided, however, that such Prior Plans shall remain effective solely with respect to awards that are outstanding as of April 19, 2005.
 
 
shall mean an Option, SAR or other form of Stock Award granted under the Plan.
"Award"
 
shall mean the paper or electronic document evidencing an Award granted under the Plan.
"Award Agreement"
 
shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.
"Change of Control"
 
shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"Code"
 
shall mean the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board, the members of which shall satisfy the requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the 1934 Act and who shall also qualify, and remain qualified as "outside directors," as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code.
"Committee"
 
shall mean the common stock of the Company, par value $.01 per share.
"Common Stock"
 
shall mean Citigroup Inc., a Delaware Corporation.
"Company"
 
shall mean "covered employee" as such term is defined in Section 162(m) of the Code.
"Covered Employee"
 
shall mean an Award payable in shares of Common Stock at the end of a specified deferral period that is subject to the terms, conditions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(c)(iv) and Section 7(d).
"Deferred Stock"
 
shall have the meaning set forth in General Instruction A to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor form or statute, as determined by the Committee.
"Employee"
 
shall mean, in the case of a grant of an Option or a SAR, the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange, or on any national securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are then listed, on the trading date immediately preceding the date on which the Option or the SAR was granted.
"Fair Market Value"
 
shall mean an incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Code.
"ISO"
 
shall mean an Option that is granted to a participant that is not designated as an ISO.
"Nonqualified Stock Option"
 
shall mean the right to purchase a specified number of shares of Common Stock at a stated exercise price for a specified period of time subject to the terms, conditions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(a) and Section 7(d). The term "Option" as used in this Plan includes the terms "Nonqualified Stock Option" and "ISO".
"Option"
 
shall mean an Employee who has been granted an Award under the Plan.
"Participant"
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.
"Plan Administrator"
 
shall mean the Citicorp 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, the Travelers Group Capital Accumulation Plan, and the Citigroup Employee Incentive Plan (formerly the Travelers Group Employee Incentive Plan).
"Prior Plans"
 
shall mean an Award of Common Stock that is subject to the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(c)(iii) and Section 7(d).
"Restricted Stock"
 
shall mean a stock appreciation right that is subject to the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(b) and Section 7(d).
"SAR"
 
shall mean an Employee who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act.
"Section 16(a) Officer"
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(c)(i).
"Stock Award"
 
shall mean a stock payment that is subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(c)(ii) and Section 7(d).
"Stock Payment"
 
shall mean a stock unit that is subject to the terms, conditions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(c)(v) and Section 7(d).
"Stock Unit"
 
shall mean any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company or any entity, including an acquired entity, in which the Company has a significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
"Subsidiary"
 
shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and any successor thereto.
"1934 Act"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Awards under the Plan may be granted as Options, SARs or Stock Awards, as described below. Awards may be granted singly, in combination or in tandem as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In any instance where the rights of a Participant with respect to an Award extend past the date of termination of a Participant's employment, all of such rights shall terminate and be forfeited, if, in the determination of the Committee, the Participant, at any time subsequent to his or her termination of employment engages, directly or indirectly, either personally or as an employee, agent, partner, stockholder, officer or director of, or consultant to, any entity or person engaged in any business in which the Company or its affiliates is engaged, in conduct that breaches any obligation or duty of such Participant to the Company or a Subsidiary or that is in material competition with the Company or a Subsidiary or is materially injurious to the Company or a Subsidiary, monetarily or otherwise, which conduct shall include, but not be limited to, (i) disclosing or misusing any confidential information pertaining to the Company or a Subsidiary; (ii) any attempt, directly or indirectly, to induce any employee, agent, insurance agent, insurance broker or broker-dealer of the Company or any Subsidiary to be employed or perform services elsewhere or (iii) any attempt by a Participant, directly or indirectly, to solicit the trade of any customer or supplier or prospective customer or supplier of the Company or any Subsidiary or (iv) disparaging the Company, any Subsidiary or any of their respective officers or directors. The Committee shall make the determination of whether any conduct, action or failure to act falls within the scope of activities contemplated by this Section 8, in its sole discretion. For
 
purposes of this Section 8, a Participant shall not be deemed to be a stockholder of a competing entity if the Participant's record and beneficial ownership amount to not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding capital stock of any company subject to the periodic and other reporting requirements of the 1934 Act.
 
 
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide that Stock Awards shall earn dividends or dividend equivalents. Such dividends or dividend equivalents may be paid currently or may be credited to an account maintained on the books of the Company. Any payment or crediting of dividends or dividend equivalents will be subject to such terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations as the Committee may establish, from time to time, in its sole discretion, including, without limitation, reinvestment in additional shares of Common Stock or common share equivalents. Any shares purchased by or on behalf of Participants in a dividend reinvestment program established under the Plan shall not count towards the maximum number of shares that may be issued under the Plan as set forth in Section 6(a), provided that such shares are purchased in open-market transactions or are treasury shares purchased directly from the Company at fair market value at the time of purchase. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, Section 16(a) Officers may not Participate in dividend reinvestment programs established under the Plan.
 
 
The Committee shall determine whether a Participant shall have the right to direct the vote of shares of Common Stock allocated to a Stock Award. If the Committee determines that an Award shall carry voting rights, the shares allocated to such Award shall be voted by such person as the Committee may designate (the "Plan Administrator") in accordance with instructions received from Participants (unless to do so would constitute a violation of fiduciary duties or any applicable exchange rules). Shares subject to Awards as to which no instructions are received shall be voted by the Plan Administrator proportionately in accordance with instructions received from Participants (unless to do so would constitute a violation of fiduciary duties or any applicable exchange rules).
 
 
Payment of vested Awards may be in the form of cash, Common Stock or combinations thereof as the Committee shall determine, subject to such terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations as it may impose. The Committee may (i) postpone the exercise of Options or SARs (but not beyond their expiration dates), (ii) require or permit Participants to elect to defer the receipt or issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Awards or the settlement of Awards in cash under such rules and procedures as it may establish, in its discretion, from time to time, (iii) provide for deferred settlements of Awards including the payment or crediting of earnings on deferred amounts, or the payment or crediting of dividend equivalents where the deferred amounts are denominated in common share equivalents, (iv) stipulate in any Award Agreement, either at the time of grant or by subsequent amendment, that a payment or portion of a payment of an Award be delayed in
 
the event that Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor or similar provision of the Code) would disallow a tax deduction by the Company for all or a portion of such payment; provided, that the period of any such delay in payment shall be until the payment, or portion thereof, is tax deductible, or such earlier date as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding the forgoing, the Committee shall not take any action described in the preceding sentence unless it determines that such action will not result in any adverse tax consequences for any Participant under Section 409A of the Code without the express written consent of the affected Participant.
 
 
Awards granted under the Plan, and during any period of restriction on transferability, shares of Common Stock issued in connection with the exercise of an Option or a SAR, may not be sold, pledged, hypothecated, assigned, margined or otherwise transferred in any manner other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, unless and until the shares underlying such Award have been issued, and all restrictions applicable to such shares have lapsed or have otherwise been waived by the Committee. No Award or interest or right therein shall be subject to the debts, contracts or engagements of a Participant or his or her successors in interest or shall be subject to disposition by transfer, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law, by judgment, lien, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy and divorce), and any attempted disposition thereof shall be null and void, of no effect, and not binding on the Company in any way. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit (on such terms, conditions and limitations as it may establish) Nonqualified Stock Options (including non-qualified Reload Options) and/or shares issued in connection with an Option or a SAR exercise that are subject to restrictions on transferability, to be transferred one time to a member of a Participant's immediate family or to a trust or similar vehicle for the benefit of a Participant's immediate family members. During the lifetime of a Participant, all rights with respect to Awards shall be exercisable only by such Participant or, if applicable pursuant to the preceding sentence, a permitted transferee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Should any event constitute a Change of Control for purposes of the Plan, but not constitute a change of control within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, if necessary to avoid adverse tax consequences to any participant, no payment or distribution shall be made to any affected participant by reason of such Change of Control without the express written consent of the affected Participant.
 
 
Each Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that sets forth the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations applicable to the Award, including, but not limited to, the provisions governing vesting, exercisability, payment, forfeiture, and termination of employment, all or some of which may be incorporated by reference into one or more other documents delivered or otherwise made available to a Participant in connection with an Award. The Committee need not require the execution of such document by the Participant, in which case acceptance of the Award by the Participant shall constitute agreement by the Participant to the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations set forth in the Plan and the Award Agreement as well as the administrative guidelines and practices of the Company in effect from time to time.
 
 
The Company and its Subsidiaries shall have the right to require payment of, or may deduct from any payment made under the Plan or otherwise to a Participant, or may permit shares to be tendered or sold, including shares of Common Stock delivered or vested in connection with an Award, in an amount sufficient to cover withholding of any federal, state, local, foreign or other governmental taxes or charges required by law or such greater amount of withholding as the Committee shall determine from time to time and to take such other action as may be necessary to satisfy any such withholding obligations. The value of any shares allowed to be withheld or tendered for tax withholding may not exceed the amount allowed consistent with fixed plan accounting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, to the extent applicable. It shall be a condition to the obligation of the Company to issue Common Stock upon the exercise of an Option or a SAR that the Participant pay to the Company, on demand, such amount as may be requested by the Company for the purpose of satisfying any tax withholding liability. If the amount is not paid, the Company may refuse to issue shares.
 
 
Awards received by Participants under the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a Participant's regular, recurring compensation for purposes of calculating payments or benefits from any Company benefit plan or severance program unless specifically provided for under the plan
 
or program. Unless specifically set forth in an Award Agreement, Awards under the Plan are not intended as payment for compensation that otherwise would have been delivered in cash.
 
 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Plan shall be unfunded and shall not create (or be construed to create) a trust or a separate fund or funds. The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant or other person. To the extent any Participant holds any rights by virtue of an Award granted under the Plan, such rights shall constitute general unsecured liabilities of the Company and shall not confer upon any Participant or any other person or entity any right, title, or interest in any assets of the Company.
 
 
The expenses of the administration of the Plan shall be borne by the Company and its Subsidiaries. The Company may require Subsidiaries to pay for the Common Stock issued under the Plan.
 
 
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, a Participant shall not have any rights as a stockholder with respect to shares of Common Stock covered by an Award until the date the Participant becomes the holder of record with respect to such shares. No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to such date, except as provided in Section 9.
 
 
No Employee shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award under the Plan. There shall be no obligation of uniformity of treatment of Employees under the Plan. Further, the Company and its Subsidiaries may adopt other compensation programs, plans or arrangements as it deems appropriate or necessary. The adoption of the Plan shall not confer upon any Employee any right to continued employment in any particular position or at any particular rate of compensation, nor shall it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of its Employees at any time, free from any claim or liability under the Plan.
 
 
The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated at any time by the Board, provided that no amendment shall be made without stockholder approval, if stockholder approval is required under then applicable law, including any applicable tax, stock exchange or accounting rules, and further provided that no amendment to the Plan shall violate the prohibition on repricing contained in Section 4(d). With respect to Awards subject to Section 409A of the Code, unless the Committee determines otherwise, any amendment, suspension
 
or termination of the Plan shall conform to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. No termination, suspension or amendment of the Plan shall adversely affect the right of any Participant with respect to any Award theretofore granted, as determined by the Committee, without such Participant's written consent. Unless terminated earlier by the Board, the Plan will terminate on April 30, 2009.
 
 
The Plan and any applicable Award Agreement entered into under the Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of a Participant, including, without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
 
 
The Plan and all agreements entered into under the Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 


