FILE:C/C-8K-20050414092417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Item 8.01    Other Events
        Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the Historical Financial Data Supplement of Citigroup Inc. and subsidiaries, reflecting the disclosure of Discontinued Operations and other related effects pertaining to the announced sale of Citigroup's Travelers Life & Annuity and substantially all of Citigroup's international insurance businesses.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
CITIGROUP INC. Current Report on Form 8-K
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
CITIGROUPFINANCIAL SUMMARY (In millions of dollars, except per share amounts)
        
CITIGROUPNET INCOME PRODUCT VIEW
(In millions of dollars)
        
(1)
The 2004 second quarter includes a $756 million after-tax gain ($378 million in Consumer Other and $378 million in GCIB Other) related to the sale of The Samba Financial Group (Samba).
(2)
The 2004 second quarter includes a $4.95 billion after-tax charge related to the WorldCom Settlement and increase in Litigation Reserves.
(3)
The 2004 fourth quarter includes a $244 million after-tax charge related to the exit plan implementation for the Company's Private Bank operations in Japan.
(4)
Discontinued Operations represents the operations from the Company's January 31, 2005 announced agreement for the sale of Citigroup's Travelers Life & Annuity, and substantially all of Citigroup's international insurance business, to MetLife, Inc. The transaction is subject to certain domestic and international regulatory approvals, as well as other customary conditions to closing and is expected to close during the 2005 second or third quarter.
Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
(1)
Excludes Alternative investments and Corporate / Other which are predominantly related to North America.
Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
CITIGROUPNET REVENUES PRODUCT VIEW (In millions of dollars)
        
(1)
Segment net revenues disclosed above are prepared on an owned basis in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The managed basis disclosures treat the receivables as if they had not been securitized and are still on our balance sheet, reflecting the interest revenue and expense associated with the portfolio, as well as the credit costs incurred. Although a managed basis presentation is not in conformity with GAAP, the Company believes it provides a representation of performance and key indicators of the credit card business that is consistent with the way the business is managed.
Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
CITIGROUPNET REVENUES REGIONAL VIEW (In millions of dollars)
(1)
Excludes Alternative investments and Corporate/Other which are predominantly related to North America.
Reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.


