FILE:C/C-8K-20051027145859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) October 27, 2005 ------------------------------- Citigroup Inc. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9924 52-1568099 - --------------- ------------ ------------------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (212) 559-1000 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
CITIGROUP INC. Current Report on Form 8-K Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. --------------------------------- Exhibits: Exhibit No. Description ----------- ----------- 1.01 Terms Agreement, dated October 24, 2005, among Citigroup Funding Inc., Citigroup Inc., as guarantor, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as the underwriter, relating to the offer and sale of Citigroup Funding Inc.'s 9% Select EQUity Indexed NoteS(SM) Based Upon the Common Stock of eBay Inc. Due November 9, 2006. 4.01 Form of Note for Citigroup Funding Inc.'s 9% Select EQUity Indexed NoteS(SM) Based Upon the Common Stock of eBay Inc. Due November 9, 2006.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: October 27, 2005 CITIGROUP INC. By: /s/ Eric L. Wentzel ------------------------------- Name: Eric L. Wentzel Title: Assistant Treasurer

EXHIBIT 1.01 TERMS AGREEMENT October 24, 2005 Citigroup Funding Inc. 388 Greenwich Street, 38th Floor New York, New York 10013 Attn: Treasury Capital Markets Ladies and Gentlemen: We understand that Citigroup Funding Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell $40,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 9% Select EQUity Indexed NoteS(SM) Based Upon the Common Stock of eBay Inc. Due November 9, 2006 (the "SEQUINS"). Payments due under the SEQUINS will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Guarantor"). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (the "Underwriter") offers to purchase 4,000,000 SEQUINS in the principal amount of $40,000,000 at 97.75% of the aggregate principal amount. The Closing Date shall be October 27, 2005 at 9:00 a.m. at the offices of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, One Liberty Plaza, New York, New York 10006. The SEQUINS shall have the following terms: Title: 9% Select EQUity Indexed NoteS(SM) Based Upon the Common Stock of eBay Inc. Due November 9, 2006 Maturity: November 9, 2006 Maturity Payment: Holders of the SEQUINS will be entitled to receive at maturity the Maturity Payment (as defined in the Prospectus Supplement dated October 24, 2005 relating to the SEQUINS) CFI eBay SEQUINS Due 2006 1 Terms Agreement
Interest Rate: 9% per annum Interest Payment Dates: The 9th day of each February, May, August and November, or the immediately next Business Day, commencing on February 9, 2006. Regular Record Dates: The fifth Business Day preceding each interest payment date. Initial Price To Public: 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest from October 27, 2005 to date of payment and delivery. Call Option: Beginning April 27, 2006, the Company may call the SEQUINS in whole, and not in part, for cash in an amount that, together with all other payments made on the SEQUINS from the date of issuance to and including the call date, will provide a yield to call of 14.25% per annum (compounded annually) Trustee: The Bank of New York Indenture: Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2005 CFI eBay SEQUINS Due 2006 2 Terms Agreement
All the provisions contained in the document entitled "Citigroup Funding Inc. -- Debt Securities -- Underwriting Agreement Basic Provisions" and dated May 3, 2005 (the "Basic Provisions"), a copy of which you have previously received, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if the Basic Provisions had been set forth in full herein. Terms defined in the Basic Provisions are used herein as therein defined. The Underwriter hereby agrees in connection with the underwriting of the SEQUINS to comply with the requirements set forth in any applicable sections of Section 2720 to the By-Laws of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Michael S. Zuckert is General Counsel, Finance and Capital Markets of the Guarantor and legal counsel to the Company. Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP is counsel to the Underwriter. Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP is special tax counsel to the Company and the Guarantor. Please accept this offer no later than 9:00 p.m. on October 24, 2005, by signing a copy of this Terms Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to us, or by sending us a written acceptance in the following form: CFI eBay SEQUINS Due 2006 3 Terms Agreement
"We hereby accept your offer, set forth in the Terms Agreement, dated October 24, 2005, to purchase the SEQUINS on the terms set forth therein." Very truly yours, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. By: /s/ Richard T. Chang ---------------------------------- Name: Richard T. Chang Title: Director ACCEPTED: CITIGROUP FUNDING INC. By: /s/ Geoffrey S. Richards ------------------------------------------ Name: Geoffrey S. Richards Title: Vice President and Assistant Treasurer CITIGROUP INC. By: /s/ Eric L. Wentzel ------------------------------------------ Name: Eric L. Wentzel Title: Assistant Treasurer CFI eBay SEQUINS Due 2006 4 Terms Agreement

EXHIBIT 4.01 THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO A NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC TO CITIGROUP FUNDING INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. No. R-1 INITIAL PRINCIPAL AMOUNT CUSIP: 17308C 83 3 REPRESENTED $40,000,000 ISIN: US17308C8331 representing 4,000,000 SEQUINS ($10 per SEQUINS) CITIGROUP FUNDING INC. 9% Select EQUity Indexed NoteS(SM) Based Upon the Common Stock of eBay Inc. Due November 9, 2006 Citigroup Funding Inc., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture herein referred to), for value received and on condition that this Note is not redeemed by the Company prior to November 9, 2006 (the "Stated Maturity Date"), hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or its registered assigns, the Maturity Payment (as defined below), on the Stated Maturity Date. This Note will bear quarterly payments of interest, is not subject to any sinking fund, is not subject to redemption at the option of the holder thereof prior to the Stated Maturity Date, and is not subject to the defeasance provisions of the Indenture. The payments on this note are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Guarantor"). Payment of the Maturity Payment with respect to this Note shall be made upon presentation and surrender of this Note at the corporate trust office of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City and State of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts or, if applicable, in the common stock of eBay Inc. ("eBay"). This Note is one of the series of 4,000,000 9% Select EQUity Indexed NoteS(SM) Based Upon the Common Stock of eBay Inc. Due Novemer 9, 2006 (the "SEQUINS").
INTEREST The SEQUINS bear interest at the rate of 9% per annum. Interest will be paid in cash quarterly on the 9th day of each February, May, August and November, commencing on February 9, 2006 (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date"). Interest will be payable to the persons in whose names the SEQUINS are registered at the close of business on the fifth Business Day preceding each Interest Payment Date. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. If an Interest Payment Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the interest payment to be made on such Interest Payment Date will be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date, and no additional interest will accrue as a result of such delayed payment. "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which securities exchanges or banking institutions or trust companies in the City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. PAYMENT AT MATURITY On the Stated Maturity Date, if the Company does not exercise its Call Option (as described below) prior to or on such date, holders of the SEQUINS will receive for each SEQUINS the final quarterly interest payment and the Maturity Payment described below. DETERMINATION OF THE MATURITY PAYMENT The Maturity Payment for each SEQUINS equals a number of shares of eBay common stock equal to the Exchange Ratio. The Exchange Ratio equals 0.25368. In lieu of any fractional share of eBay common stock otherwise payable in respect of any SEQUINS, at maturity each holder of a SEQUINS will receive an amount in cash equal to the value of such fractional share. The number of full shares of eBay common stock, and any cash in lieu of a fractional share, to be delivered at maturity to a holder of a SEQUINS will be calculated based on the aggregate number of SEQUINS held by such holder. CALL OPTION The Company may exercise its option to call (its "Call Option") the SEQUINS in whole, but not in part, on any Business Day beginning on April 27, 2006 through and including the Stated Maturity Date (such day being the "Call Date"). The Company will provide at least ten Business Days' notice (as described below) before the Call Date. If the Company exercises its Call Option, holders of the SEQUINS will receive for each SEQUINS a price in cash (the "Call Price") that, together with all other payments made on the SEQUINS from the date hereof (the "Issue Date") to and including the Call Date, will provide a yield to call of 14.25% per annum (compounded annually). The Call Price will be calculated by determining the amount that, when discounted from the Call Date to the Issue Date by a discount 2
factor based on an annual yield to call of 14.25% (calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months, compounded annually) and added to the present value of all interest payments made to and including the Call Date discounted to the Issue Date by that same discount factor, will equal the initial price of the SEQUINS. The present value of each interest payment on the SEQUINS used to determine the Call Price will be calculated assuming each payment is made on the calendar day scheduled for that payment. A delay in payment may arise for reasons such as a scheduled Interest Payment Date falling on a day that is not a Business Day and, as a result, the payment being delayed until the next succeeding Business Day. Any such delay will not be taken into account when calculating the Call Price. The Call Price will be rounded to the fourth decimal place and will not include the amount of unpaid interest accrued to and including the Call Date; however, on the Call Date holders of the SEQUINS will receive the Call Price plus an amount equal to the accrued and unpaid interest. So long as the SEQUINS are represented by this Note and are held on behalf of DTC, notices relating to the Company's Call Option and all other notices will be given by delivery to DTC. If the SEQUINS are no longer represented by this Note and are not held on behalf of DTC, notices relating to the Company's Call Option and all other notices will be published in a leading daily newspaper in the City of New York, which is expected to be The Wall Street Journal. DILUTION ADJUSTMENTS If eBay, after the closing date of the offering of the SEQUINS, (1) pays a stock dividend or makes a distribution with respect to its common stock in shares of the stock, (2) subdivides or splits the outstanding shares of its common stock into a greater number of shares, (3) combines the outstanding shares of the common stock into a smaller number of shares, or (4) issues by reclassification of shares of its common stock any shares of other common stock of eBay, then, in each of these cases, the Exchange Ratio will be multiplied by a dilution adjustment equal to a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding immediately after the event, plus, in the case of a reclassification referred to in (4) above, the number of shares of such other common stock of eBay, and the denominator of which will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding immediately before the event. If eBay, after the closing date, issues, or declares a record date in respect of an issuance of, rights or warrants to all holders of its common stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase shares of its common stock at a price per share less than the Then-Current Market Price 3
of the common stock, other than rights to purchase common stock pursuant to a plan for the reinvestment of dividends or interest, then, in each case, the Exchange Ratio will be multiplied by a dilution adjustment equal to a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding immediately before the adjustment is effected, plus the number of additional shares of common stock offered for subscription or purchase pursuant to the rights or warrants, and the denominator of which will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding immediately before the adjustment is effected by reason of the issuance of the rights or warrants, plus the number of additional shares of common stock which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares of common stock offered for subscription or purchase pursuant to the rights or warrants would purchase at the Then-Current Market Price of the common stock, which will be determined by multiplying the total number of shares so offered for subscription or purchase by the exercise price of the rights or warrants and dividing the product obtained by the Then-Current Market Price. To the extent that, after the expiration of the rights or warrants, the shares of common stock offered thereby have not been delivered, the Exchange Ratio will be further adjusted to equal the Exchange Ratio which would have been in effect had the adjustment for the issuance of the rights or warrants been made upon the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of common stock actually delivered. If eBay, after the closing date, declares or pays a dividend or makes a distribution to all holders of the common stock of any class of its capital stock, the capital stock of one or more of its subsidiaries, evidences of its indebtedness or other non-cash assets, excluding any dividends or distributions referred to in the above paragraph and excluding any issuance or distribution to all holders of its common stock, in the form of Marketable Securities, of capital stock of one or more of its subsidiaries, or issues to all holders of its common stock rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any of its or one or more of its subsidiaries' securities, other than rights or warrants referred to in the above paragraph, then, in each of these cases, the Exchange Ratio will be multiplied by a dilution adjustment equal to a fraction, the numerator of which will be the Then-Current Market Price of one share of the common stock, and the denominator of which will be the Then-Current Market Price of one share of the common stock, less the fair market value (as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company, whose determination will be final) as of the time the adjustment is effected of the portion of the capital stock, assets, evidences of indebtedness, rights or warrants so distributed or issued applicable to one share of common stock. If any capital stock declared or paid as a dividend or otherwise distributed or issued to all holders of eBay common stock consists, in whole or in part, of Marketable Securities, then the fair market value of such Marketable Securities will be determined by the calculation agent by reference to the price per share of such capital stock on the principal market on which it is traded as of the time the adjustment is effected. The fair market value of any other distribution or issuance referred to in this paragraph will be determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company, whose determination will be final. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that, with respect to any dividend or distribution to which the above paragraph would otherwise apply, the denominator in the fraction referred to in the above formula is less than $1.00 or is a negative number, then the Company may, at its option, elect to have the adjustment provided by the above paragraph not be made and 4
in lieu of this adjustment, the Maturity Payment will be deemed to be equal to the fair market value of the capital stock, evidences of indebtedness, assets, rights or warrants (determined, as of the date the dilution adjustment would otherwise be effected as described below, by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company, whose determination will be final) so distributed or issued applicable to one share of eBay common stock and each holder of the SEQUINS will have the right to receive at maturity cash in an amount per SEQUINS equal to the Exchange Ratio multiplied by such fair market value. If eBay, after the closing date, declares a record date in respect of a distribution of cash, other than any Permitted Dividends described below, any cash distributed in consideration of fractional shares of common stock and any cash distributed in a Reorganization Event referred to below, by dividend or otherwise, to all holders of its common stock, or makes an Excess Purchase Payment, then the Exchange Ratio will be multiplied by a dilution adjustment equal to a fraction, the numerator of which will be the Then-Current Market Price of the common stock, and the denominator of which will be the Then-Current Market Price of the common stock on the record date less the amount of the distribution applicable to one share of common stock which would not be a Permitted Dividend, or, in the case of an Excess Purchase Payment, less the aggregate amount of the Excess Purchase Payment for which adjustment is being made at the time divided by the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the record date. For the purposes of these adjustments: A "Permitted Dividend" is any cash dividend in respect of eBay common stock, other than a cash dividend that exceeds the immediately preceding cash dividend, and then only to the extent that the per share amount of this dividend results in an annualized dividend yield on the common stock in excess of 10%. An "Excess Purchase Payment" is the excess, if any, of (x) the cash and the value (as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company, whose determination will be final) of all other consideration paid by eBay with respect to one share of common stock acquired in a tender offer or exchange offer by eBay, over (y) the Then-Current Market Price of the common stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that, with respect to any dividend, distribution or Excess Purchase Payment to which the fifth paragraph in this section would otherwise apply, the denominator in the fraction referred to in the formula in that paragraph is less than $1.00 or is a negative number, then the Company may, at its option, elect to have the adjustment provided by the fifth paragraph in this section not be made and in lieu of this adjustment, the Maturity Payment will be deemed to be equal to the sum of the amount of cash and the fair market value of other consideration (determined, as of the date the dilution adjustment would otherwise be effected as described below, by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company, whose determination will be final) so distributed or applied to the acquisition of the common stock in the tender offer or exchange offer applicable to one share of eBay common stock and each holder 5
of the SEQUINS will have the right to receive at maturity cash in an amount per SEQUINS equal to the Exchange Ratio multiplied by such sum. If eBay, after the closing date, issues or makes a distribution to all holders of its common stock of the capital stock of one or more of its subsidiaries, in each case in the form of Marketable Securities, then, in each of these cases, each holder of the SEQUINS will receive at maturity for each SEQUINS a combination of shares of eBay common stock equal to the Exchange Ratio and a number of shares of such eBay subsidiaries' capital stock equal to the Exchange Ratio times the number of shares of such subsidiaries' capital stock distributed per share of eBay common stock. In the event a distribution pursuant to this paragraph occurs, following the record date for such distribution, the adjustments described in this section will also apply to such subsidiaries' capital stock if any of the events described in this section occurs with respect to such capital stock. Each dilution adjustment will be effected as follows: - in the case of any dividend, distribution or issuance, at the opening of business on the Business Day next following the record date for determination of holders of eBay common stock entitled to receive this dividend, distribution or issuance or, if the announcement of this dividend, distribution, or issuance is after this record date, at the time this dividend, distribution or issuance was announced by eBay; - in the case of any subdivision, split, combination or reclassification, on the effective date of the transaction; - in the case of any Excess Purchase Payment for which eBay announces, at or prior to the time it commences the relevant share repurchase, the repurchase price per share for shares proposed to be repurchased, on the date of the announcement; and - in the case of any other Excess Purchase Payment, on the date that the holders of the repurchased shares become entitled to payment in respect thereof. All dilution adjustments will be rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th or, if there is not a nearest 1/10,000th, to the next lower 1/10,000th. No adjustment in the Exchange Ratio will be required unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent therein, provided, however, that any adjustments which by reason of this sentence are not required to be made will be carried forward (on a percentage basis) and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. If any announcement or declaration of a record date in respect of a dividend, distribution, issuance or repurchase requiring an adjustment as described herein is subsequently canceled by eBay, or this dividend, distribution, issuance or repurchase fails to receive requisite approvals or fails to occur for any other reason, then, upon the cancellation, failure of approval or failure to occur, the Exchange Ratio will be further adjusted to the Exchange Ratio which would then have been in effect had adjustment for the event not been made. If any Reorganization Event, as described below, occurs after the occurrence of one 6
or more events requiring an adjustment as described herein, the dilution adjustments previously applied to the Exchange Ratio will not be rescinded but will be applied to the new Exchange Ratio provided for below. The "Then-Current Market Price" of the common stock, for the purpose of applying any dilution adjustment, means the average Closing Price per share of common stock for the ten Trading Days immediately before this adjustment is effected or, in the case of an adjustment effected at the opening of business on the Business Day next following a record date, immediately before the earlier of the date the adjustment is effected and the related Ex-Date. For purposes of determining the Then-Current Market Price, the determination of the Closing Price by the calculation agent in the event of a Market Disruption Event, as described in the definition of Closing Price, may be deferred by the calculation agent for up to five consecutive Trading Days on which a Market Disruption Event is occurring, but not past the Trading Day prior to the Stated Maturity Date. The "Closing Price" of eBay common stock (or any other security for which a Closing Price must be determined) on any date of determination will be (1) if the common stock or other security is listed on a national securities exchange on that date of determination, the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on that date on the principal U.S. exchange on which the common stock or other security is listed or admitted to trading, (2) if the common stock or other security is not listed on a national securities exchange on that date of determination, or if the closing sale price or last reported sale price is not obtainable (even if the common stock or other security is listed or admitted to trading on such exchange), and the common stock or other security is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market, the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on that date as reported on the Nasdaq, and (3) if the common stock or other security is not quoted on the Nasdaq on that date of determination or, if the closing sale price or last reported sale price is not obtainable (even if the common stock or other security is quoted on the Nasdaq), the last quoted bid price for the common stock or other security in the over-the-counter market on that date as reported by the OTC Bulletin Board, the National Quotation Bureau or a similar organization. The determination of the Closing Price by the calculation agent in the event of a Market Disruption Event may be deferred by the calculation agent for up to five consecutive Trading Days on which a Market Disruption Event is occurring, but not past the Trading Day prior to the Stated Maturity Date. The determination of the Closing Price by the calculation agent in the event of a Market Disruption Event may be deferred by the calculation agent for up to five consecutive Trading Days on which a Market Disruption Event is occurring, but not past the Trading Day prior to the Stated Maturity Date. If no closing sale price or last reported sale price is available pursuant to clauses (1), (2) or (3) above or if there is a Market Disruption Event, the Closing Price on any date of determination, unless deferred by the calculation agent as described in the preceding sentence, will be the arithmetic mean, as determined by the calculation agent, of the bid prices of the common stock or other security obtained from as many dealers in such stock (which may include Citigroup Global Markets Inc. or any of our other affiliates), but not exceeding three such dealers, as will make such bid prices available to the calculation agent. A security "quoted on the Nasdaq National Market" will include a security included for listing or quotation in any successor to such system and the term "OTC Bulletin Board" will include any 7
successor to such service. A "Trading Day" means a day, as determined by the calculation agent, on which trading is generally conducted (or was scheduled to have been generally conducted, but for the occurrence of a Market Disruption Event) on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq National Market, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board Options Exchange, and in the over-the-counter market for equity securities in the United States. The "Ex-Date" relating to any dividend, distribution or issuance is the first date on which the shares of the common stock trade in the regular way on their principal market without the right to receive this dividend, distribution or issuance. A "Market Disruption Event" means the occurrence or existence of any suspension of or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by any exchange or market or otherwise) of, or the unavailability, through a recognized system of public dissemination of transaction information, of accurate price, volume or related information in respect of, (1) the shares of eBay common stock on any exchange or market, or (2) any options contracts or futures contracts relating to the shares of eBay common stock, or any options on such futures contracts, on any exchange or market if, in each case, in the determination of the calculation agent, any such suspension, limitation or unavailability is material. In the event of any of the following "Reorganization Events": - any consolidation or merger of eBay, or any surviving entity or subsequent surviving entity of eBay, with or into another entity, other than a merger or consolidation in which eBay is the continuing corporation and in which the common stock outstanding immediately before the merger or consolidation is not exchanged for cash, securities or other property of eBay or another issuer; - any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another corporation of the property of eBay or any successor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety; - any statutory exchange of securities of eBay or any successor of eBay with another issuer, other than in connection with a merger or acquisition; or - any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of eBay or any successor of eBay, each holder of the SEQUINS will have the right to receive a Maturity Payment per SEQUINS of (i) cash in an amount equal to the Exchange Ratio multiplied by the sum of clauses (1) and (2) in the definition of "Transaction Value" below and (ii) the number of Marketable Securities received for each share of stock in the Reorganization Event multiplied by the Exchange Ratio. The "Transaction Value" will be the sum of: 8
(1) for any cash received in a Reorganization Event, the amount of cash received per share of common stock, (2) for any property other than cash or Marketable Securities received in a Reorganization Event, an amount equal to the market value on the date the Reorganization Event is consummated of that property received per share of common stock, as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company, whose determination will be final, and (3) for any Marketable Securities received in a Reorganization Event, an amount equal to the Closing Price per share of these Marketable Securities on the applicable Trading Day multiplied by the number of these Marketable Securities received for each share of common stock. "Marketable Securities" are any perpetual equity securities or debt securities with a stated maturity after the maturity date, in each case that are listed on a U.S. national securities exchange or reported by the Nasdaq National Market. The number of shares of any equity securities constituting Marketable Securities included in the calculation of Transaction Value pursuant to clause (3) above will be adjusted if any event occurs with respect to the Marketable Securities or the issuer of the Marketable Securities between the time of the Reorganization Event and maturity that would have required an adjustment as described above, had it occurred with respect to eBay common stock or eBay. Adjustment for these subsequent events will be as nearly equivalent as practicable to the adjustments described above. GENERAL This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Debt Securities of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under a Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2005 (the "Indenture"), among the Company, the Guarantor, and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee and the holders of the SEQUINS, and the terms upon which the SEQUINS are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. In case an Event of Default with respect to the SEQUINS shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of the SEQUINS may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. In such case, the amount declared due and payable upon any acceleration permitted by the Indenture will be determined by the calculation agent and will be equal to, with respect to this Note, the Maturity Payment calculated as though the Stated Maturity Date of this Note were the date of early repayment. In case of default at Maturity of this Note, this Note shall bear interest, payable upon demand of the beneficial owners of this Note in accordance with the terms of the SEQUINS, from and after Maturity through the date 9
when payment of such amount has been made or duly provided for, at the rate of 4.86% per annum on the unpaid amount (or the cash equivalent of such unpaid amount) due. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company, the Guarantor and the rights of the holders of the Debt Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company, the Guarantor and a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Debt Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company and the Guarantor with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note. The holder of this Note may not enforce such holder's rights pursuant to the Indenture or the SEQUINS except as provided in the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, or, failing which, the Guarantor to pay the Maturity Payment with respect to this Note, and to pay any interest on any overdue amount thereof at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture but not in this Note shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purposes. 10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal. CITIGROUP FUNDING INC. By: /s/ Geoffrey S. Richards ------------------------------------ Name: Geoffrey S. Richards Title: Vice President and Assistant Treasurer Corporate Seal Attest: By: /s/ Douglas C. Turnbull --------------------------------------------- Name: Douglas C. Turnbull Title: Assistant Secretary Dated: October 27, 2005 CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. The Bank of New York, as Trustee By: /s/ Geovanni Barris --------------------------------------------- Authorized Signatory


