FILE:C/C-8K-20070315131100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 14, 2007, Citigroup Inc. issued a press release announcing that
it has launched its tender offer for 100% of the shares of Nikko Cordial Corporation at a price
of 1,700 per share.
A copy of the above-referenced press release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit Number
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit Number
 
 
 
 

For Immediate Release
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C)
March 14, 2007
TOKYO - Citigroup announced today that it has launched its tender offer for 100% of the shares of Nikko Cordial at a price of 1,700 per share.
The cash payment for the 95.1% of Nikko Cordials shares that Citi does not already own would be approximately $13.3 billion. The offer is conditioned on tender of sufficient shares for Citigroup to own at least 51% of outstanding shares, as well as certain regulatory approvals. The transaction is expected to be neutral to earnings per share in 2007 and accretive in 2008 and thereafter.
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citis major brand names include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Citi Smith Barney and Banamex. Additional information may be found at or .
www.citigroup.com
www.citi.com
Certain statements in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors. More information about these factors is contained in Citigroups filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


