FILE:C/C-8K-20070306144808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 6, 2007, Citigroup Inc. and Nikko Cordial Corporation issued a joint press release announcing that they have agreed to form a comprehensive strategic alliance, consisting of a broad-ranging business alliance and a capital alliance in which Citigroup would launch a tender offer for the purpose of becoming Nikko Cordials majority shareholder. Citigroup expects to be able to launch the tender offer for 100% of Nikko Cordials shares within the next week at a purchase price of 1,350 per share.
A copy of the above-referenced press release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit Number
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Number
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C)
Nikko Cordial Corporation (TSE: 8603)
Tokyo, March 6, 2007 - Citigroup Inc. and Nikko Cordial Corporation today announced that they have agreed to form a comprehensive strategic alliance, consisting of a broad-ranging business alliance and a capital alliance in which Citigroup would launch a tender offer for the purpose of becoming Nikko Cordials majority shareholder. Citigroup and Nikko Cordial said that their alliance agreement was signed today following approval by their respective boards of directors.
1.
 
Objectives of the Alliance
Citigroup and Nikko Cordial are forming the alliance in order to create one of Japans leading financial services groups and to enable the combined franchise to pursue important new growth opportunities, giving due respect to Japanese culture and business practices. The alliance capitalizes on their highly complementary businesses and capabilities, leverages their longstanding cooperative relationship and builds upon the success of their existing joint ventures. This includes Nikko Citigroup Limited, one of Japans leading investment banks and a strategically important part of Citigroups capital markets and banking business globally.
The two companies also said that, by announcing the new alliance agreement today, they intended to preserve the value of Nikko Cordials franchise for the benefit of all interested stakeholders, including Nikko Cordials shareholders, customers, employees and business partners, while also ensuring stability in the securities market and restoring investor trust and confidence.
2.
 
Summary of Business Alliance
Under the direction of a joint steering committee that will soon be formed to begin implementing the new business alliance, Citigroup and Nikko Cordial intend to:
 
 
Citigroup and Nikko Cordial added that significantly expanding their existing alliance would allow them not only to better serve their customers in Japan but also to strengthen their market presence and enhance their ability to grow in the world's second largest economy.
3.
 
Summary of Capital Alliance
In order to implement the capital alliance, Citigroup has agreed, subject to certain conditions (e.g., no breach of representations and warranties, no material adverse change, etc.), to cause its wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary (Citigroup Japan Investments LLC) to launch a tender offer for 100% of Nikko Cordials shares at a purchase price of 1,350 per share. Citigroup has also agreed that this tender offer will be launched regardless of whether Nikko Cordials shares are delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Citigroup expects to be able to launch the tender offer within the next week.
Citigroup will not be required to purchase any of Nikko Cordials shares in the tender offer unless doing so would give Citigroup and its affiliates at least a majority ownership interest in Nikko Cordials shares (after counting the approximately 4.9% stake currently owned by Citigroup and its affiliates). Citigroup will announce the other details of the tender offer at the time it is launched. The purchase of Nikko Cordial shares in the tender offer is expected to be accretive for Citigroup. If Citigroup purchases all of Nikko Cordials outstanding shares (other than those currently owned by Citigroup and its affiliates) in the tender offer, the total purchase price would be approximately 
1.253 trillion
.
 
2
Citi is acting as sole investment banking adviser to Citigroup and Citigroup Japan Investments LLC on this transaction.
4. Overview of Citigroup and Nikko Cordial
 
* Travelers International LLC changed its name to Citigroup International LLC on January 29, 2007.
** Individual investor - ownership percentage not known
 
3
5. Summary of Credit Support Agreement
In order to assist Nikko Cordial in ensuring market trust and confidence in its liquidity, and in protecting the interests of its stakeholders, even if its shares are delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Citigroup and Nikko Cordial, together with Nikko Cordial Securities, Inc., Nikko Citigroup Limited and Citigroup Global Markets Holdings, Inc., have entered into a credit support agreement. The parties to that agreement have agreed that, for a certain period of time following any delisting of Nikko Cordials shares, Citigroup may elect to provide financing to Nikko Citigroup Limited in the form of loans, bonds, stock acquisition rights or shares of Nikko Citigroup Limited, or any combination of the foregoing. This credit support agreement is intended to ensure stability in funding sources for Nikko Cordial and Nikko Citigroup Limited in case of any disruption that may result in a delisting situation.
 
4
<Citigroup>
 
 
 
 
As to Citigroup Inc.
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citi's major brands include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Citi Smith Barney and Banamex. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com or www.citi.com.
Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors. More information about these factors is contained in Citigroup's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As to Nikko Cordial Corporation
Nikko Cordial Corporation is a diversified financial service group for providing securities related services and meeting various financial needs such as capital funding and asset management.
The major group companies are described as below and are providing solutions with the customers.
 
T
he number of the employees on the group
consolidated
basis is 11,996 as of December 31, 2006. Please see the additional information at www.nikko.jp/index_e.html
5
 


