FILE:C/C-8K-20070108201740.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On January 8, 2007, Citigroup Inc. issued a press release announcing that it will reposition its consumer finance business in Japan, recognizing recent changes in the operating environment and the passage on December 13, 2006, of changes to consumer lending laws in Japan. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Citigroup will increase reserves by $375 million after-tax, reflecting current estimates of losses from increased customer settlements in the business.
Citigroup will also take an approximately $40 million after-tax repositioning charge in the fourth quarter of 2006. The repositioning charge will include expenses related to the closing of approximately 270 branches and 100 automated loan machines.
 
Including the increase in reserves and the fourth quarter repositioning charge, the Japan consumer finance segment is expected to report a net loss of approximately $370 million, or seven cents per share, for the fourth quarter of 2006. Based on current assumptions, the business is expected to approximately break-even in 2007 and return to profitability thereafter.
 
A copy of the above-referenced press release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.
Exhibit Number
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Number
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C)
January 8, 2007
 
NEW YORK -
 
Citigroup
a
nnounced today that it will reposition its consumer finance business in Japan, recognizing recent changes in the operating environment and the passage on December 13, 2006, of
changes to consumer lending laws in Japan. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Citigroup will increase reserves by $375 million after-tax, reflecting current estimates of losses from increased customer settlements in the business.
The company will also take an
approximately $40 million after-tax repositioning charge in the fourth quarter of 2006.
The repositioning charge will include expenses related to the closing of approximately 270 branches and 100 automated loan machines.
Including the increase in reserves and the fourth quarter repositioning charge, the Japan consumer finance segment is expected to report a net loss of approximately $370 million, or seven cents per share, for the fourth quarter of 2006. Based on current assumptions, the business is expected to approximately break-even in 2007 and return to profitability thereafter.
Legislative proposals and judicial developments have affected the consumer lending industry in Japan since early 2005, culminating in the recent changes in laws that will lower the interest rate permissible on new consumer finance loans by 2010. These events have significantly affected the operating environment for the entire consumer finance industry in Japan. Citigroup had previously indicated that it was assessing the impact of these developments, including the likelihood of an increase in reserves and a charge to reposition the business.
The repositioning is consistent with the companys efforts over the past three years to establish a lower-cost platform for the business and enables it to
compete effectively
in the new rate environment in Japan.
 
 
 
Citigroup, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Major brand names under Citigroup's trademark red umbrella include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney and Banamex. Additional information may be found at
www.citigroup.com
Certain statements in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors. More information about these factors is contained in Citigroups filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Citigroup Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
 


