FILE:C/C-8K-20070813133906.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)          
Exhibits:
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 

August 6, 2007
Citigroup Inc.
399 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10043
Attention:
 
Assistant Treasurer
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We understand that Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), proposes to issue and sell US$3,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its debt securities (the Securities). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, we, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Bank of America Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Lehman Brothers Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., Toussaint Capital Partners, LLC, UBS Securities LLC and The Williams Capital Group, L.P., as underwriters (the Underwriters), offer to purchase, severally and not jointly, the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite our respective names on the list attached as Annex A hereto at 99.741% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from the date of issuance.
The Closing Date shall be
August 13, 2007
, at 8:30 A.M. The closing shall take place at the Corporate Law offices of the Company located at 425 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043.
 
The Securities shall have the following terms:
 
 
 
1
 
Additional Terms:
The Securities shall be issuable as Registered Securities only. The Securities will be initially represented by one or more global Securities registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company (DTC) or its nominees, as described in the Prospectus relating to the Securities. Beneficial interests in the Securities will be shown on, and transfers thereof will be effected only through, records maintained by DTC, Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System, and Clearstream International and their respective participants. Owners of beneficial interests in the Securities will be entitled to physical delivery of Securities in certificated form only under the limited circumstances described in the Prospectus. Principal and interest on the Securities shall be payable in United States dollars. The relevant provisions of Article Eleven of the Indenture relating to defeasance shall apply to the Securities.
 
All the provisions contained in the document entitled Citigroup Inc. Debt Securities  Underwriting Agreement  Basic Provisions and dated March 2, 2006 (the Basic Provisions), a copy of which you have previously received, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if the Basic Provisions had been set forth in full herein. Terms defined in the Basic Provisions are used herein as therein defined.
 
The Company agrees to use its best efforts to have the Securities approved for listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and to maintain such listing so long as any of the Securities are outstanding, provided, however that:
 
(a)
  
if it is impracticable or unduly burdensome, in the good faith determination of the Company, to maintain such listing due to changes in listing requirements occurring after the date of the Prospectus Supplement, or
(b)
  
if the Transparency Directive (as defined in the Prospectus Supplement) is implemented in Luxembourg in a manner that would require the Company to publish financial information according to accounting principles or standards that are materially different from United States generally accepted accounting principles,
the Company may de-list the Securities from the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain an alternative admission to listing, trading and/or quotation of the Securities by another listing authority, exchange or system within or outside the European Union as it may decide. If such an alternative admission is not available or is, in the Companys opinion, unduly burdensome, such an alternative admission will not be obtained, and the Company shall have no further obligation in respect of any listing, trading or quotation for the Securities.
 
The Underwriters hereby agree in connection with the underwriting of the Securities to comply with the requirements set forth in any applicable sections of Rule 2720 of the Conduct Rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
 
 
2
 
 
Selling Restrictions:
 
European Economic Area
 
Each Underwriter represents and agrees that in relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a Relevant Member State), an offer to the public of any Securities which are the subject of this offering may not be made in that Relevant Member State except that an offer to the public in that Relevant Member State of any Securities may be made at any time under the following exemptions under the Prospectus Directive, if they have been implemented in that Relevant Member State:
 
(a)
  
to legal entities which are authorized or regulated to operate in the financial markets or, if not so authorized or regulated, whose corporate purpose is solely to invest in securities;
 
(b)
  
to any legal entity which has two or more of (1) an average of at least 250 employees during the last financial year; (2) a total balance sheet of more than 43,000,000 and (3) an annual net turnover of more than 50,000,000, as shown in its last annual or consolidated accounts;
 
(c)
  
by the underwriters to fewer than 100 natural or legal persons (other than qualified investors as defined in the Prospectus Directive) subject to obtaining the prior consent of Citigroup Global Markets Limited for any such offer; or
 
(d)
  
in any other circumstances falling within Article 3(2) of the Prospectus Directive, provided that no such offer of Securities shall result in a requirement for the publication by the issuer or any underwriter of a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive.
 
For the purposes of this provision, the expression an offer to the public in relation to any Securities in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and any Securities to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase any Securities, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression Prospectus Directive means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State.
 
This EEA selling restriction is in addition to any other selling restrictions set out below.
 
United Kingdom
 
Each Underwriter:
 
(a)
  
has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the FSMA)) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of the Securities in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Issuer; and
 
(b)
  
has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
 
 
3
 
France
 
No prospectus (including any amendment, supplement or replacement thereto) has been prepared in connection with the offering of the Securities that has been approved by the
Autorit des marchs financiers
or by the competent authority of another State that is a contracting party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and notified to the
Autorit des marchs financiers
; each Underwriter represents and agrees that no Securities have been offered or sold nor will be offered or sold, directly or indirectly, to the public in France; each Underwriter represents and agrees that the prospectus or any other offering material relating to the Securities have not been distributed or caused to be distributed and will not be distributed or caused to be distributed to the public in France; such offers, sales and distributions have been and shall only be made in France to persons licensed to provide the investment service of portfolio management for the account of third parties, qualified investors (
investisseurs qualifis
) and/or a restricted circle of investors (
cercle restreint dinvestisseurs
), in each case investing for their own account, all as defined in Articles L. 411-2, D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D. 411-4, D. 734-1, D.744-1, D. 754-1 and D. 764-1 of the Code
montaire et financier
. Each Underwriter represents and agrees that the direct or indirect distribution to the public in France of any so acquired Securities may be made only as provided by Articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2, L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 to L. 621-8-3 of the
Code montaire et financier
and applicable regulations thereunder.
 
Italy
 
Each Underwriter has not and will not publish a prospectus in Italy in connection with the offering of the Securities. Such offering has not been cleared by the Italian Securities Exchange Commission (
Commissione Nazionale per le Societ`a e la Borsa
, the CONSOB) pursuant to Italian securities legislation and, accordingly, the Securities may not and will not be offered, sold or delivered, nor may or will copies of the prospectus or any other documents relating to the Securities be distributed in Italy, except (i) to professional investors (
operatori qualificati
), as defined in Article 31, second paragraph, of CONSOB Regulation No. 11522 of July 1, 1998, as amended, (the Regulation No. 11522), or (ii) in other circumstances which are exempted from the rules governing offers of securities to the public pursuant to Article 100 of Legislative Decree No. 58 of February 24, 1998 (the Italian Finance Law) and Article 33, first paragraph, of CONSOB Regulation No. 11971 of May 14, 1999, as amended.
 
Any offer, sale or delivery of the Securities or distribution of copies of the Prospectus Supplement, accompanying Prospectus or any other document relating to the Securities in Italy may and will be effected in accordance with all Italian securities, tax, exchange control and other applicable laws and regulations, and, in particular, will be: (i) made by an investment firm, bank or financial intermediary permitted to conduct such activities in Italy in accordance with the Italian Finance Law, Legislative Decree No. 385 of September 1, 1993, as amended (the Italian Banking Law), Regulation No. 11522, and any other applicable laws and regulations; (ii) in compliance with Article 129 of the Italian Banking Law and the implementing guidelines of the Bank of Italy; and (iii) in compliance with any other applicable notification requirement or limitation which may be imposed by CONSOB or the Bank of Italy.
 
Any investor purchasing the Securities in the offering is solely responsible for ensuring that any offer or resale of the Securities it purchased in the offering occurs in compliance with applicable Italian laws and regulations.
 
The Prospectus Supplement, accompanying Prospectus and the information contained therein are intended only for the use of its recipient and, unless in circumstances which are exempted from the rules governing offers of securities to the public pursuant to Article 100 of the Italian Finance Law and Article 33, first paragraph, of CONSOB Regulation No. 11971 of May 14, 1999, as amended, is not to be distributed, for any reason, to any third party resident or located in Italy. No person resident or located in Italy other than the original recipients of this document may rely on it or its content.
 
 
4
 
Italy has only partially implemented the Prospectus Directive and the provisions under the heading European Economic Area above shall apply with respect to Italy only to the extent that the relevant provisions of the Prospectus Directive have already been implemented in Italy.
 
Insofar as the requirements above are based on laws which are superseded at any time pursuant to the implementation of the Prospectus Directive in Italy, such requirements shall be replaced by the applicable requirements under the relevant implementing measures of the Prospectus Directive in Italy.
 
Hong Kong
 
Each Underwriter:
 
(a)
  
has not offered or sold and will not offer or sell in Hong Kong, by means of any document, any Securities other than to (i) professional investors as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) of Hong Kong and any rules made under that Ordinance; or (ii) in other circumstances which do not result in the document being a prospectus as defined in the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 32) of Hong Kong or which do not constitute an offer to the public within the meaning of that Ordinance; and
 
(b)
  
has not issued or had in its possession for the purposes of issue, and will not issue or have in its possession for the purposes of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, any advertisement, invitation or document relating to the Securities, which is directed at, or the contents of which are or are likely to be accessed or read by, the public in Hong Kong (except if permitted to do so under securities laws of Hong Kong) other than with respect to Securities which are or are intended to be disposed of only to persons outside Hong Kong or only to professional investors within the meaning of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) of Hong Kong and any rules made under that Ordinance.
 
Japan
 
The Securities have not been and will not be registered under the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan. The Underwriters will not offer or sell, directly or indirectly, any of the Securities in Japan or to, or for the account or benefit of, any resident of Japan or to, or for the account or benefit of, any resident for reoffering or resale, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the account or benefit of, any resident of Japan except (i) pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in compliance with, the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan and (ii) in compliance with the other relevant laws and regulations of Japan.
 
Singapore
 
The Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus relating to this offering have not been and will not be registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore under the Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289 of Singapore) (the SFA). Accordingly, each Underwriter has not offered or sold any Securities or caused the Securities to be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase and will not offer or sell any Securities or cause the Securities to be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, and has not circulated or distributed, nor will it circulate or distribute, such Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus or any other document or material in connection with the offer or sale, or invitation for subscription or purchase, of the Securities, whether directly or indirectly, to persons in Singapore other than (i) to an institutional investor under Section 274 of the SFA, (ii) to a relevant person, or any person pursuant to Section 275(1A), and in accordance with the conditions, specified in Section 275 of the SFA or (iii) otherwise pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA.
 
 
5
 
Each Underwriter will notify (whether through the distribution of the Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus relating to this offering or otherwise) each of the following relevant persons specified in Section 275 of the SFA which has subscribed or purchased Securities from or through that Underwriter, namely a person which is:
 
(a)
  
a corporation (which is not an accredited investor) the sole business of which is to hold investments and the entire share capital of which is owned by one or more individuals, each of whom is an accredited investor; or
 
(b)
  
a trust (where the trustee is not an accredited investor) whose sole purpose is to hold investments and each beneficiary is an accredited investor, that shares, debentures and units of shares and debentures of that corporation or the beneficiaries rights and interest in that trust shall not be transferable for 6 months after that corporation or that trust has acquired the Securities under Section 275 of the SFA except:
 
 
 
 
In addition to the legal opinions required by Sections 6(b) and 6(c) of the Basic Provisions, the Underwriters shall have received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special U.S. tax counsel to the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that although the discussion set forth in the Prospectus under the headings 
United States Federal Income Tax Considerations - Introduction and - Non-United States Holders does not purport to discuss all possible United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to non-United States holders of the Securities, such discussion constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to
non-United States holders of the Securities.
 
Michael S. Zuckert, Esq., General Counsel, Finance and Capital Markets of the Company, is counsel to the Company. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is special U.S. tax counsel to the Company. Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP is counsel to the Underwriters.
 
Please accept this offer no later than 9:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on August 6, 2007 by signing a copy of this Terms Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to us, or by sending us a written acceptance in the following form:
 
 
6
 
 
We hereby accept your offer, set forth in the Terms Agreement, dated August 6, 2007, to purchase the Securities on the terms set forth therein.
Very truly yours,
 
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.,
on behalf of the Underwriters named herein
 
By:     
/s/ Jack D. McSpadden, Jr.       
Name: Jack D. McSpadden, Jr.
Title: Managing Director
ACCEPTED:
CITIGROUP INC.
By: 
/s/  Charles E. Wainhouse      
       
Name: Charles E. Wainhouse
        Title: Assistant Treasurer
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

This Note is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depository named below or a nominee of the Depository. This Note is not exchangeable for Notes registered in the name of a Person other than the Depository or its nominee except in the limited circumstances described herein and in the Indenture, and no transfer of this Note (other than a transfer of this Note as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository) may be registered except in the limited circumstances described herein.
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (the "Depository"), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
CITIGROUP INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $_____________ on August 13, 2010 and to pay interest thereon from and including August 13, 2007 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, quarterly, on February 13, May 13, August 13 and November 13 of each year, commencing November 13, 2007, at the rate per annum for each Interest Period of three-month LIBOR, determined as provided herein, plus 0.15% until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such interest, which shall be the Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
 
 
 
Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holder on such Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent Record Date, such subsequent Record Date to be not less than five days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to holders of Notes of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Interest hereon will be calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in an Interest Period and a 360-day year. Dollar amounts resulting from such calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. An "Interest Period" shall be the period from and including an Interest Payment Date (or from August 13, 2007 in the case of the first Interest Payment Date) to and including the day immediately preceding the next Interest Payment Date.
If an Interest Payment Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be the next succeeding Business Day. If the Maturity of the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment due on Maturity will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day, and no further interest will accrue in respect of such postponement. If a date for payment of interest or principal on the Notes falls on a day that is not a business day in the place of payment, such payment will be made on the next succeeding business day in such place of payment as if made on the date the payment was due. No interest will accrue on any amounts payable for the period from and after the due date for payment of such principal or interest.
For these purposes, Business Day means any day which is a day on which commercial banks settle payments and are open for general business in The City of New York and London.
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in The City of New York.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee or by an authenticating agent on behalf of the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
 
2
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: August 13, 2007
CITIGROUP INC.
By:_________________________________
Title: Chief Accounting Officer
ATTEST:
By:___________________________
Title: Assistant Secretary
 
3
 
This is one of the Notes of the series issued under the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: August 13, 2007
THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
as Trustee
By:_________________________________
       Name:
       Title:
 
 
-or-
CITIBANK, N.A.,
as Authenticating Agent
By:_________________________________
       Name:
       Title:
 
4
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company (the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under the Indenture, dated as of March 15, 1987 (as amended and supplemented to date, the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal to $3,000,000,000.
This Note will bear interest for each Interest Period at a rate determined by Citibank, N.A., acting as Calculation Agent. The interest rate on this Note for a particular Interest Period will be a per annum rate equal to three-month LIBOR as determined on the related Interest Determination Date, plus 0.15%. The Interest Determination Date for an Interest Period will be the second London business day preceding such Interest Period. The Interest Determination Date for the first Interest Period was August 2, 2007. Promptly upon determination, the Calculation Agent will inform the Trustee and the Company of the interest rate for the next Interest Period. Absent manifest error, the determination of the interest rate by the Calculation Agent shall be binding and conclusive on the holders of Notes, the Trustee and the Company.
A London business day is a day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
On any Interest Determination Date, LIBOR will be equal to the offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having an index maturity of six months for the next Interest Period, in amounts of at least $1,000,000, as such rate appears on Telerate Page 3750 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date. If the Telerate Page 3750 is replaced by another service or ceases to exist, the Calculation Agent will use the replacing service or such other service that may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits.
If no offered rate appears on Telerate Page 3750 on an Interest Determination Date at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, then the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Company) will select four major banks in the London interbank market and shall request each of their principal London offices to provide a quotation of the rate at which six-month deposits in U.S. dollars in amounts of at least $1,000,000 are offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market, on that date and at that time, that is representative of single transactions at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the Calculation Agent will select three major banks in New York City and shall request each of them to provide a quotation of the rate offered by them at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Interest Determination Date for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having an index maturity of six months for the applicable Interest Period in an amount of at least $1,000,000 that is representative of single transactions at that time. If three quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the rate of LIBOR for the next Interest Period will be set equal to the rate of LIBOR for the current Interest Period.
 
5
 
The Luxembourg Stock Exchange shall be notified of the interest rate, the amount of the interest payment and the Interest Payment Date for a particular Interest Period not later than the first day of such Interest Period. Upon request from any Noteholder, the Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate in effect on this Note for the current Interest Period and, if it has been determined, the interest rate to be in effect for the next Interest Period.
If an event of default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth in Sections 11.03 and 11.04 thereof, which provisions apply to this Note.
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, without the consent of the holders of the Securities, to establish, among other things, the form and terms of any series of Securities issuable thereunder by one or more supplemental indentures, and, with the consent of the holders of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of Securities at the time outstanding which are affected thereby, to modify the Indenture or any supplemental indenture or the rights of the holders of Securities of such series to be affected, provided that no such modification will (i) extend the fixed maturity of any Securities, reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, reduce the principal amount thereof or the premium, if any, thereon, reduce the amount of the principal of Original Issue Discount Securities payable on any date, change the currency in which Securities are payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the maturity thereof, without the consent of the holder of each Security so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Securities of any series the consent of the holders of which is required for any such modification without the consent of the holders of all Securities of such series then outstanding, or (iii) modify, without the written consent of the Trustee, the rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
This Note is a Global Security registered in the name of a nominee of the Depository. This Note is exchangeable for Notes registered in the name of a person other than the Depository or its nominee only in the limited circumstances hereinafter described. Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for definitive Notes in certificated form, this Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository.
 
6
 
The Notes represented by this Global Security are exchangeable for definitive Notes in certificated form of like tenor as such Notes in denominations of $1,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof only if (i) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for the Notes or (ii) the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or (iii) the Company in its sole discretion decides to allow the Notes to be exchanged for definitive Notes in registered form. Any Notes that are exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence are exchangeable for certificated Notes issuable in authorized denominations and registered in such names as the Depository shall direct. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of definitive Notes in certificated form is registrable in the register maintained by the Company in The City of New York for such purpose, upon surrender of the definitive Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the registrar, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the registrar duly executed by, the holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. Subject to the foregoing, this Note is not exchangeable, except for a Global Security or Global Securities of this issue of the same principal amount to be registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Company will pay additional amounts ("Additional Amounts") to the beneficial owner of any Note that is a non-United States person in order to ensure that every net payment on such Note will not be less, due to payment of U.S. withholding tax, than the amount then due and payable. For this purpose, a "net payment" on a Note means a payment by the Company or a paying agent, including payment of principal and interest, after deduction for any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge of the United States. These Additional Amounts will constitute additional interest on the Note.
The Company will not be required to pay Additional Amounts, however, in any of the circumstances described in items (1) through (13) below.
 
 
7
 
 
For purposes of items (1) through (4) above, "beneficial owner" means a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of the holder if the holder is an estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other entity, or a person holding a power over an estate or trust administered by a fiduciary holder.
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
Except as specifically provided herein, the Company will not be required to make any payment of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any government or a political subdivision or taxing authority of such government.
As used in this Note, "United States person" means:
Additionally, "non-United States person" means a person who is not a United States person, and "United States" means the states of the United States of America and the District of Columbia, but excluding its territories and its possessions.
Except as provided below, the Notes may not be redeemed prior to maturity.
 
(1)
 
The Company may, at its option, redeem the Notes if:
 
 
10
 
 
Any redemption of the Notes as set forth in clauses (1) or (2) above shall be in whole, and not in part, and will be made at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes Outstanding plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption. Holders shall be given not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior notice by the Trustee of the date fixed for such redemption.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. The Notes are governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
 
11
 


