FILE:C/C-8K-20070216123132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3
 

 
Citigroup Inc.
399 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10043
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We understand that Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), proposes to issue and sell US$750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its subordinated debt securities (the Securities). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, we, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Lehman Brothers Inc., Loop Capital Markets, LLC, UBS Securities LLC, and The Williams Capital Group, L.P., as underwriters (the Underwriters), offer to purchase, severally and not jointly, the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite our respective names on the list attached as Annex A hereto at 99.817% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from and including December 11, 2006 but excluding February 16, 2007. The Securities form a part of the same series as the Companys outstanding Subordinated Floating Rate Notes due 2016, issued on June 9, 2006.
The Closing Date shall be February 16, 2007, at 8:30 A.M. The closing shall take place at the Corporate Law offices of the Company located at 425 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043.
The Securities shall have the following terms:
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
Additional Terms:
The Securities shall be issuable as Registered Securities only. The Securities will be initially represented by one or more global Securities registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company (DTC) or its nominees, as described in the Prospectus relating to the Securities. Beneficial interests in the Securities will be shown on, and transfers thereof will be effected only through, records maintained by DTC, Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System, and Clearstream International and their respective participants. Owners of beneficial interests in the Securities will be entitled to physical delivery of Securities in certificated form only under the limited circumstances described in the Prospectus. Principal and interest on the Securities shall be payable in United States dollars. The relevant provisions of Article Eleven of the Indenture relating to defeasance shall apply to the Securities.
All the provisions contained in the document entitled Citigroup Inc. Debt Securities  Underwriting Agreement  Basic Provisions and dated March 2, 2006 (the Basic Provisions), a copy of which you have previously received, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if the Basic Provisions had been set forth in full herein. Terms defined in the Basic Provisions are used herein as therein defined.
The Company agrees to use its best efforts to have the Securities approved for listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and to maintain such listing so long as any of the Securities are outstanding, provided, however that:
(a)
 
if it is impracticable or unduly burdensome, in the good faith determination of the Company, to maintain such listing due to changes in listing requirements occurring after the date of the Prospectus Supplement, or
(b)
 
if the Transparency Directive (as defined in the Prospectus Supplement) is implemented in Luxembourg in a manner that would require the Company to publish financial information according to accounting principles or standards that are materially different from United States generally accepted accounting principles,
the Company may de-list the Securities from the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain an alternative admission to listing, trading and/or quotation of the Securities by another listing authority, exchange or system within or outside the European Union as it may decide. If such an alternative admission is not available or is, in the Companys opinion, unduly burdensome, such an alternative admission will not be obtained, and the Company shall have no further obligation in respect of any listing, trading or quotation for the Securities.
 
2
 
 
The Underwriters hereby agree in connection with the underwriting of the Securities to comply with the requirements set forth in any applicable sections of Rule 2720 of the Conduct Rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
Each Underwriter further agrees and hereby represents that:
(a)
 
it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and it will only communicate or cause to be communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the FSMA) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of the Securities in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Company;
(b)
 
it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom;
(c)
 
it will not offer or sell any Securities directly or indirectly in Japan or to, or for the benefit of, any Japanese person or to others, for re-offering or re-sale directly or indirectly in Japan or to any Japanese person except under circumstances which will result in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and guidelines promulgated by the relevant governmental and regulatory authorities in effect at the relevant time. For purposes of this paragraph, Japanese person means any person resident in Japan, including any corporation or other entity organized under the laws of Japan;
(d)
 
it is aware of the fact that no securities prospectus (
Wertpapierprospekt
) under the German Securities Prospectus Act (
Wertpapierprospektgesetz
,
 
the Prospectus Act) has been or will be published in respect of the Securities in the Federal Republic of Germany and that it will comply with the Prospectus Act and all other laws and regulations applicable in the Federal Republic of Germany governing the issue, offering and sale of the Securities;
(e)
 
no Securities have been offered or sold and will be offered or sold, directly or indirectly, to the public in France except to qualified investors (
investisseurs qualifis
) and/or to a limited circle of investors (
cercle restreint dinvestisseurs
) acting for their own account as defined in article L. 411-2 of the French
Code Montaire
 
et Financier
and applicable regulations thereunder; and that the direct or indirect resale to the public in France of any Securities acquired by any qualified investors (
investisseurs qualifis
) and/or any investors belonging to a limited circle of investors (
cercle restreint dinvestisseurs
) may be made only as provided by articles L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 of the French
Code Montaire
 
et Financier
and applicable regulations thereunder; and that none of the Prospectus Supplement, the Prospectus or any other offering materials relating to the Securities has been released, issued or distributed to the public in France except to qualified investors (
investisseurs qualifis
) and/or to a limited circle of investors (
cercle restreint dinvestisseurs
) mentioned above; and
(f)
 
it and each of its affiliates has not offered or sold, and it will not offer or sell, the Securities by means of any document to persons in Hong Kong other than persons whose ordinary business it is to buy or sell shares or debentures, whether as principal or agent, or otherwise in circumstances which do not constitute an offer to the public within the meaning of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Chapter 32 of the Laws of Hong Kong), and unless permitted to do so under the securities laws of Hong Kong, no person has issued or had in its possession for the purposes of issue, and will not issue or have in its possession for the purpose of issue, any advertisement, document or invitation relating to the Securities other than with respect to the Securities to be disposed of to persons outside Hong Kong or only to persons whose business involves the acquisition, disposal or holding of securities, whether as principal or agent.
 
3
 
 
In addition to the legal opinions required by Sections 6(b) and 6(c) of the Basic Provisions, the Underwriters shall have received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special U.S. tax counsel to the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that although the discussion set forth in the Prospectus under the headings 
United States Federal Income Tax Considerations - Introduction and - Non-United States Holders does not purport to discuss all possible United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to non-United States holders of the Securities, such discussion constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to
non-United States holders of the Securities.
Michael S. Zuckert, Esq., General Counsel, Finance and Capital Markets of the Company, is counsel to the Company. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is special U.S. tax counsel to the Company. Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP is counsel to the Underwriters.
Please accept this offer no later than 9:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on February 9, 2007 by signing a copy of this Terms Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to us, or by sending us a written acceptance in the following form:
 
4
 
We hereby accept your offer, set forth in the Terms Agreement, dated February 9, 2007, to purchase the Securities on the terms set forth therein.
ACCEPTED:
CITIGROUP INC.
By:   
/s/ Charles E. Wainhouse
Name: Charles E. Wainhouse
Title: Assistant Treasurer
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 

This Subordinated Note is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depository named below or a nominee of the Depository. This Subordinated Note is not exchangeable for Subordinated Notes registered in the name of a Person other than the Depository or its nominee except in the limited circumstances described herein and in the Indenture, and no transfer of this Subordinated Note (other than a transfer of this Subordinated Note as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository) may be registered except in the limited circumstances described herein.
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (the "Depository"), to Citigroup Inc. or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued in respect thereof is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
The Subordinated Notes are not savings accounts or deposits but are unsecured obligations of Citigroup Inc. The Subordinated Notes are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or by any other federal agency or instrumentality.
CITIGROUP INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $__________ on June 9, 2016 and to pay interest thereon from and including December 11, 2006 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date (as defined herein) to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, quarterly, on March 9, June 9, September 9 and December 9 of each year, commencing March 9, 2007, at the rate per annum for each Interest Period of three-month LIBOR, determined as provided herein, plus 0.27% until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment (each such payment date, an Interest Payment Date). The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid pursuant to the instructions of the Person in whose name this Subordinated Note is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such interest, which shall be the Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
 
 
 
 
Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holder on such Record Date and may either be paid pursuant to the instructions of the Person in whose name this Subordinated Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent Record Date, such subsequent Record Date to be not less than five days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to holders of Subordinated Notes of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Subordinated Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Interest hereon will be calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in an Interest Period and a 360-day year. Dollar amounts resulting from such calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. An "Interest Period" shall be the period from and including an Interest Payment Date (or from December 11, 2006 in the case of the first Interest Payment Date) to and including the day immediately preceding the next Interest Payment Date.
If an Interest Payment Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be the next succeeding Business Day. If the Maturity of the Subordinated Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment due on Maturity will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day, and no further interest will accrue in respect of such postponement. If a date for payment of interest or principal on the Subordinated Notes falls on a day that is not a business day in the place of payment, such payment will be made on the next succeeding business day in such place of payment as if made on the date the payment was due. No interest will accrue on any amounts payable for the period from and after the due date for payment of such principal or interest.
For these purposes, Business Day means any day on which commercial banks settle payments and are open for general business in The City of New York and London.
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Subordinated Note will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in The City of New York.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Subordinated Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee or by an authenticating agent on behalf of the Trustee by manual signature, this Subordinated Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
 
2
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: February 16, 2007
 
ATTEST:
By:
Title: Assistant Secretary
 
3
 
This is one of the Notes of the series issued under the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: February 16, 2007
 
 
 
4
 
 
This Subordinated Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company (the "Subordinated Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under the Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2001, as supplemented August 2, 2004 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York (successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Subordinated Notes and of the terms upon which the Subordinated Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Subordinated Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially issued in the aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000 and increased to $1,350,000,000.
The Company covenants and agrees that the indebtedness evidenced by the Subordinated Notes is subordinate and junior in right of payment to all Senior Indebtedness (as defined in the Indenture) to the extent provided in the Indenture, and each holder of Subordinated Notes, by his or her acceptance thereof, likewise covenants and agrees to the subordination provided in the Indenture (including Article Fourteen thereof) and shall be bound by the provisions thereof.
In the event that the Company shall default in the payment of any principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Senior Indebtedness when the same becomes due and payable after any applicable grace period, whether at maturity or at a date fixed for prepayment or by declaration or otherwise, then, unless and until such default shall have been cured or waived or shall have ceased to exist, no direct or indirect payment (in cash, property, securities, by set-off or otherwise) shall be made or agreed to be made on account of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the indebtedness evidenced by the Subordinated Notes, or in respect of any redemption, retirement or other acquisition of any of the Subordinated Notes, except that holders of Subordinated Notes may receive and retain (x) securities of the Company or any other corporation provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment the payment of which is subordinate, at least to the extent provided in these subordination provisions with respect to the indebtedness evidenced by the Subordinated Notes, to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness at the time outstanding and to any securities issued in respect thereof under any such plan of reorganization or readjustment and (y) payments made from a defeasance trust created pursuant to Article Eleven of the Indenture.
In the event of:
(i) any insolvency, bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation, reorganization, readjustment, composition or other similar proceeding relating to the Company, its creditors or its property,
(ii) any proceeding for liquidation, dissolution or other winding up of the Company, voluntary or involuntary, whether or not involving insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings,
 
5
 
 
(iii) any assignment by the Company for the benefit of creditors, or
(iv) any other marshalling of the assets of the Company,
all Senior Indebtedness (including any interest thereon accruing after the commencement of any such proceedings) shall first be paid in full before any payment or distribution, whether in cash, securities or other property, shall be made to any Holder of any of the Subordinated Notes on account thereof (except as provided in the next sentence). Any payment or distribution, whether in cash, securities or other property (other than (x) securities of the Company or any other corporation provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment the payment of which is subordinate, at least to the extent provided in these subordination provisions with respect to the indebtedness evidenced by the Subordinated Notes, to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness at the time outstanding and to any securities issued in respect thereof under any such plan of reorganization or readjustment and (y) payments made from a defeasance trust created pursuant to Article Eleven of the Indenture), which would otherwise (but for these subordination provisions) be payable or deliverable in respect of the Subordinated Notes shall be paid or delivered directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness in accordance with the priorities then existing among such holders until all Senior Indebtedness (including any interest thereon accruing after the commencement of any such proceedings) shall have been paid in full.
This Subordinated Note will bear interest for each Interest Period at a rate determined by Citibank, N.A., acting as Calculation Agent. The interest rate on this Subordinated Note for a particular Interest Period will be a per annum rate equal to three-month LIBOR as determined on the related Interest Determination Date, plus 0.27%. The Interest Determination Date for an Interest Period will be the second London business day preceding such Interest Period. The Interest Determination Date for the first Interest Period was December 8, 2006. Promptly upon determination, the Calculation Agent will inform the Trustee and the Company of the interest rate for the next Interest Period. Absent manifest error, the determination of the interest rate by the Calculation Agent shall be binding and conclusive on the holders of Subordinated Notes, the Trustee and the Company.
A London business day is a day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
On any Interest Determination Date, LIBOR will be equal to the offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having an index maturity of six months for the next Interest Period, in amounts of at least $1,000,000, as such rate appears on Telerate Page 3750 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date. If the Telerate Page 3750 is replaced by another service or ceases to exist, the Calculation Agent will use the replacing service or such other service that may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits.
 
6
 
 
If no offered rate appears on Telerate Page 3750 on an Interest Determination Date at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, then the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Company) will select four major banks in the London interbank market and shall request each of their principal London offices to provide a quotation of the rate at which six-month deposits in U.S. dollars in amounts of at least $1,000,000 are offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market, on that date and at that time, that is representative of single transactions at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the Calculation Agent will select three major banks in New York City and shall request each of them to provide a quotation of the rate offered by them at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Interest Determination Date for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having an index maturity of six months for the applicable Interest Period in an amount of at least $1,000,000 that is representative of single transactions at that time. If three quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the rate of LIBOR for the next Interest Period will be set equal to the rate of LIBOR for the current Interest Period.
The Luxembourg Stock Exchange shall be notified of the interest rate, the amount of the interest payment and the Interest Payment Date for a particular Interest Period not later than the first day of such Interest Period. Upon request from any Noteholder, the Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate in effect on this Subordinated Note for the current Interest Period and, if it has been determined, the interest rate to be in effect for the next Interest Period.
If an event of default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Subordinated Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Subordinated Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Subordinated Note upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth in Article Eleven thereof, which provisions apply to this Subordinated Note.
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, without the consent of the holders of Securities, to establish, among other things, the form and terms of any series of Securities issuable thereunder by one or more supplemental indentures, and, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority of the principal amount of Securities at the time Outstanding which are affected thereby, to modify the Indenture or any supplemental indenture or the rights of the holders of Securities of such series to be affected, provided that no such modification shall, without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding Security so affected, (x) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium thereon, or change any place of payment where, or the coin or currency in which any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption on or after the Redemption Date) or modify the provisions of the Indenture with respect to the subordination of the Securities in a manner adverse to the Securityholders or (y) reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of the holders of which is required for any supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose holders is required for any waiver provided for in the Indenture, or (z) modify certain other provisions of the Indenture, as set forth in Section 13.02 of the Indenture.
 
7
 
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Subordinated Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Subordinated Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
This Subordinated Note is a Global Security registered in the name of a nominee of the Depository. This Subordinated Note is exchangeable for Subordinated Notes registered in the name of a person other than the Depository or its nominee only in the limited circumstances hereinafter described. Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for definitive Subordinated Notes in certificated form, this Subordinated Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository.
The Subordinated Notes represented by this Global Security are exchangeable for definitive Subordinated Notes in certificated form of like tenor as such Subordinated Notes in denominations of $100,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof only if (i) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for the Subordinated Notes or (ii) the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or (iii) the Company in its sole discretion decides to allow the Subordinated Notes to be exchanged for definitive Subordinated Notes in registered form. Any Subordinated Notes that are exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence are exchangeable for certificated Subordinated Notes issuable in authorized denominations and registered in such names as the Depository shall direct. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of definitive Subordinated Notes in certificated form is registrable in the register maintained by the Company in The City of New York for such purpose, upon surrender of the definitive Subordinated Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the registrar, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the registrar duly executed by, the holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Subordinated Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. Subject to the foregoing, this Subordinated Note is not exchangeable, except for a Global Security or Global Securities of this issue of the same principal amount to be registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Subordinated Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Subordinated Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Subordinated Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
8
 
 
The Company will pay additional amounts ("Additional Amounts") to the beneficial owner of any Subordinated Note that is a non-United States person in order to ensure that every net payment on such Subordinated Note will not be less, due to payment of U.S. withholding tax, than the amount then due and payable. For this purpose, a "net payment" on a Subordinated Note means a payment by the Company or a paying agent, including payment of principal and interest, after deduction for any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge of the United States. These Additional Amounts will constitute additional interest on the Subordinated Note.
The Company will not be required to pay Additional Amounts, however, in any of the circumstances described in items (1) through (13) below.
 
9
 
 
For purposes of items (1) through (4) above, "beneficial owner" means a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of the holder if the holder is an estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other entity, or a person holding a power over an estate or trust administered by a fiduciary holder.
 
10
 
 
Except as specifically provided herein, the Company will not be required to make any payment of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any government or a political subdivision or taxing authority of such government.
 
11
 
 
As used in this Subordinated Note, "United States person" means:
Additionally, "non-United States person" means a person who is not a United States person, and "United States" means the states of the United States of America and the District of Columbia, but excluding its territories and its possessions.
Except as provided below, the Subordinated Notes may not be redeemed prior to maturity.
 
(1)
 
The Company may, at its option, redeem the Subordinated Notes if:
 
12
 
 
Any redemption of the Subordinated Notes as set forth in clauses (1) or (2) above shall be in whole, and not in part, and will be made at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Subordinated Notes Outstanding plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption. Holders shall be given not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior notice by the Trustee of the date fixed for such redemption.
All terms used in this Subordinated Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. The Subordinated Notes are governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 
13
 


