FILE:C/C-8K-20080807123413.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On August 7, 2008, Citigroup Inc. issued a press release regarding the settlement announced today between Citigroup and the New York Attorney General, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other state regulatory agencies.
A copy of the press release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

For Immediate Release
Citigroup, Inc. (NYSE: C)
August 7, 2008
 
NEW YORK - Citi today issued the following statement regarding the settlement announced today between the Company and the New York Attorney General, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other state regulatory agencies:
 
Our most important focus continues to be on helping our clients. Since the beginning of the Auction Rate Securities (ARS) crisis, Citi has worked diligently with issuers, investors, and regulatory authorities to obtain liquidity for holders of illiquid ARS. We have made tremendous progress on these efforts, and, in fact, more than fifty percent of our retail clients holdings in ARS have been redeemed or auctioned at par since the crisis began.
 
We are pleased to reach this agreement in principle with the New York Attorney General, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other state regulatory agencies. We remain committed to continuing our work on initiatives that will secure the best and fastest route to providing liquidity to our clients.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citis major brand names include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney, Banamex, and Nikko. Additional information may be found at
www.citigroup.com
or
www.citi.com
.
 


