FILE:C/C-8K-20080512130409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3

 
Citigroup Inc.
399 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10043
Attention:
 
Assistant Treasurer
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We understand that Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), proposes to issue and sell US$3,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its debt securities (the Securities). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, we, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Lehman Brothers Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., nabCapital Securities, LLC, Toussaint Capital Partners, LLC, and The Williams Capital Group, L.P., as underwriters (the Underwriters), offer to purchase, severally and not jointly, the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite our respective names on the list attached as Annex A hereto at 99.220% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from the date of issuance.
The Closing Date shall be May 12,
2008
, at 8:30 A.M. The closing shall take place at the Corporate Law offices of the Company located at 425 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043.
 
The Securities shall have the following terms:
 
 
Additional Terms:
The Securities shall be issuable as Registered Securities only. The Securities will be initially represented by one or more global Securities registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company (DTC) or its nominees, as described in the Prospectus relating to the Securities. Beneficial interests in the Securities will be shown on, and transfers thereof will be effected only through, records maintained by DTC, Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and Clearstream International and their respective participants. Owners of beneficial interests in the Securities will be entitled to physical delivery of Securities in certificated form only under the limited circumstances described in the Prospectus. Principal and interest on the Securities shall be payable in United States dollars. The relevant provisions of Article Eleven of the Indenture relating to defeasance shall apply to the Securities.
 
All the provisions contained in the document entitled Citigroup Inc. Debt Securities  Underwriting Agreement  Basic Provisions and dated March 2, 2006 (the Basic Provisions), a copy of which you have previously received, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if the Basic Provisions had been set forth in full herein. Terms defined in the Basic Provisions are used herein as therein defined.
 
The Company agrees to use its best efforts to have the Securities approved for listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and to maintain such listing so long as any of the Securities are outstanding, provided, however, that:
 
(a)
 
if it is impracticable or unduly burdensome, in the good faith determination of the Company, to maintain such listing due to changes in listing requirements occurring after the date of the Prospectus Supplement, or
(b)
 
if the Transparency Directive (as defined in the Prospectus Supplement) is implemented in Luxembourg in a manner that would require the Company to publish financial information according to accounting principles or standards that are materially different from United States generally accepted accounting principles,
the Company may de-list the Securities from the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain an alternative admission to listing, trading and/or quotation of the Securities by another listing authority, exchange or system within or outside the European Union as it may decide. If such an alternative admission is not available or is, in the Companys opinion, unduly burdensome, such an alternative admission will not be obtained, and the Company shall have no further obligation in respect of any listing, trading or quotation for the Securities.
 
The Underwriters hereby agree in connection with the underwriting of the Securities to comply with the requirements set forth in any applicable sections of Rule 2720 of the NASD Conduct Rules adopted by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
 
 
Selling Restrictions:
 
European Economic Area
 
The Underwriters represent and agree that in relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a Relevant Member State), with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that relevant member state (the Relevant Implementation Date), an offer to the public of any Securities which are the subject of this offering may not be made in that Relevant Member State prior to the publication of a prospectus in relation to such Securities that has been approved by the competent authority in that Relevant Member State or, where appropriate, approved in another Relevant Member State and notified to the competent authority in that Relevant Member State, all in accordance with the Prospectus Directive, except that , with effect from and including the Relevant Implementation Date, an offer to the public in that Relevant Member State of any Securities may be made at any time:
 
(a)
 
to legal entities which are authorized or regulated to operate in the financial markets or, if not so authorized or regulated, whose corporate purpose is solely to invest in securities;
 
(b)
 
to any legal entity which has two or more of (1) an average of at least 250 employees during the last financial year; (2) a total balance sheet of more than 43,000,000 and (3) an annual net turnover of more than 50,000,000, as shown in its last annual or consolidated accounts;
 
(c)
 
to fewer than 100 natural or legal persons (other than qualified investors as defined in the Prospectus Directive) subject to obtaining the prior consent of Citigroup Global Markets Inc. for any such offer; or
 
(d)
 
in any other circumstances that do not require the publication of a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive.
 
For the purposes of this provision, the expression an offer to the public in relation to any Securities in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and any Securities to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase any Securities, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression Prospectus Directive means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State.
 
This EEA selling restriction is in addition to any other selling restrictions set out below.
 
United Kingdom
 
Each Underwriter represents and agrees that the Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus relating to this offering is only being distributed to, and is only directed at, persons in the United Kingdom that are qualified investors within the meaning of Article 2(1)(e) of the Prospectus Directive that are also (i) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the Order) or (ii) high net worth entities, and other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as Relevant Persons).
 
France
 
No prospectus (including any amendment, supplement or replacement thereto) has been prepared in connection with the offering of the Securities that has been approved by the
Autorit des marchs financiers
or by the competent authority of another State that is a contracting party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and notified to the
Autorit des marchs financiers
; each Underwriter represents and agrees that no Securities have been offered or sold nor will be offered or sold, directly or indirectly, to the public in France; each Underwriter represents and agrees that the prospectus or any other offering material relating to the Securities have not been distributed or caused to be distributed and will not be distributed or caused to be distributed to the public in France; such offers, sales and distributions have been and shall only be made in France to persons licensed to provide the investment service of portfolio management for the account of third parties, qualified investors (
investisseurs qualifis
) and/or a restricted circle of investors (
cercle restreint dinvestisseurs
), in each case investing for their own account, all as defined in Articles L. 411-2, D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D. 411-4, D. 734-1, D.744-1, D. 754-1 and D. 764-1 of the Code
montaire et financier
. Each Underwriter represents and agrees that the direct or indirect distribution to the public in France of any so acquired Securities may be made only as provided by Articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2, L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 to L. 621-8-3 of the
Code montaire et financier
and applicable regulations thereunder.
 
Hong Kong
 
Each Underwriter:
 
(a)
 
has not offered or sold and will not offer or sell in Hong Kong, by means of any document, any Securities other than to (i) professional investors as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) of Hong Kong and any rules made under that Ordinance; or (ii) in other circumstances which do not result in the document being a prospectus as defined in the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 32) of Hong Kong or which do not constitute an offer to the public within the meaning of that Ordinance; and
 
(b)
 
has not issued or had in its possession for the purposes of issue, and will not issue or have in its possession for the purposes of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, any advertisement, invitation or document relating to the Securities, which is directed at, or the contents of which are or are likely to be accessed or read by, the public in Hong Kong (except if permitted to do so under securities laws of Hong Kong) other than with respect to Securities which are or are intended to be disposed of only to persons outside Hong Kong or only to professional investors within the meaning of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) of Hong Kong and any rules made under that Ordinance.
 
Japan
 
The Securities have not been and will not be registered under the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan. The Underwriters will not offer or sell, directly or indirectly, any of the Securities in Japan or to, or for the account or benefit of, any resident of Japan or to, or for the account or benefit of, any resident for reoffering or resale, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the account or benefit of, any resident of Japan except (i) pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in compliance with, the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan and (ii) in compliance with the other relevant laws and regulations of Japan.
 
Singapore
 
The Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus relating to this offering have not been and will not be registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore under the Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289 of Singapore) (the SFA). Accordingly, each Underwriter has not offered or sold any Securities or caused the Securities to be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase and will not offer or sell any Securities or cause the Securities to be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, and has not circulated or distributed, nor will it circulate or distribute, such Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus or any other document or material in connection with the offer or sale, or invitation for subscription or purchase, of the Securities, whether directly or indirectly, to persons in Singapore other than (i) to an institutional investor under Section 274 of the SFA, (ii) to a relevant person, or any person pursuant to Section 275(1A), and in accordance with the conditions, specified in Section 275 of the SFA or (iii) otherwise pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA.
 
Each Underwriter will notify (whether through the distribution of the Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus relating to this offering or otherwise) each of the following relevant persons specified in Section 275 of the SFA which has subscribed or purchased Securities from or through that Underwriter, namely a person which is:
 
(a)
 
a corporation (which is not an accredited investor (as defined in Section 4A of the SFA)) the sole business of which is to hold investments and the entire share capital of which is owned by one or more individuals, each of whom is an accredited investor; or
 
(b)
 
a trust (where the trustee is not an accredited investor) whose sole purpose is to hold investments and each beneficiary is an accredited investor, that shares, debentures and units of shares and debentures of that corporation or the beneficiaries rights and interest in that trust shall not be transferable for 6 months after that corporation or that trust has acquired the Securities under Section 275 of the SFA except:
 
 
 
 
In addition to the legal opinions required by Sections 6(b) and 6(c) of the Basic Provisions, the Underwriters shall have received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special U.S. tax counsel to the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that although the discussion set forth in the Prospectus under the headings 
United States Federal Income Tax Considerations - Introduction and - Non-United States Holders does not purport to discuss all possible United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to non-United States holders of the Securities, such discussion constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to
non-United States holders of the Securities.
 
 
Michael S. Zuckert, Esq., General Counsel, Finance and Capital Markets of the Company, is counsel to the Company. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is special U.S. tax counsel to the Company. Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP is counsel to the Underwriters.
 
Please accept this offer no later than 9:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on May 5, 2008 by signing a copy of this Terms Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to us, or by sending us a written acceptance in the following form:
 
We hereby accept your offer, set forth in the Terms Agreement, dated May 5, 2008, to purchase the Securities on the terms set forth therein.
 
ACCEPTED:
CITIGROUP INC.
By:
/s/ Charles E. Wainhouse
Charles E. Wainhouse
Assistant Treasurer
 
 
 

 
This Note is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depository named below or a nominee of the Depository. This Note is not exchangeable for Notes registered in the name of a Person other than the Depository or its nominee except in the limited circumstances described herein and in the Indenture, and no transfer of this Note (other than a transfer of this Note as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository) may be registered except in the limited circumstances described herein.
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (the "Depository"), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
CITIGROUP INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $___________ on May 15, 2018
 
and to pay interest thereon from and including May 15, 2008 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually, on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing November 15, 2008, at the rate of 6.125% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 1 and November 1 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
 
 
 
Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holder on such Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent Record Date, such subsequent Record Date to be not less than five days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to holders of Notes of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Interest hereon will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
If either an Interest Payment Date or the Maturity of the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date or Maturity will be the next succeeding Business Day. If a date for payment of interest or principal on the Notes falls on a day that is not a business day in the place of payment, such payment will be made on the next succeeding business day in such place of payment as if made on the date the payment was due. No interest will accrue on any amounts payable for the period from and after the due date for payment of such principal or interest.
For these purposes, Business Day means any day which is a day on which commercial banks settle payments and are open for general business in The City of New York.
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in The City of New York.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee or by an authenticating agent on behalf of the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
 
2
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: May 12, 2008
 
ATTEST:
By:___________________________
Title: Assistant Secretary
 
3
 
This is one of the Notes of the series issued under the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
May 12, 2008
 
 
 
4
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company (the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under the Indenture, dated as of March 15, 1987 (as amended and supplemented to date, the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal to $3,000,000,000.
If an event of default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth in Sections 11.03 and 11.04 thereof, which provisions apply to this Note.
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, without the consent of the holders of the Securities, to establish, among other things, the form and terms of any series of Securities issuable thereunder by one or more supplemental indentures, and, with the consent of the holders of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of Securities at the time outstanding which are affected thereby, to modify the Indenture or any supplemental indenture or the rights of the holders of Securities of such series to be affected, provided that no such modification will (i) extend the fixed maturity of any Securities, reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, reduce the principal amount thereof or the premium, if any, thereon, reduce the amount of the principal of Original Issue Discount Securities payable on any date, change the currency in which Securities are payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the maturity thereof, without the consent of the holder of each Security so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Securities of any series the consent of the holders of which is required for any such modification without the consent of the holders of all Securities of such series then outstanding, or (iii) modify, without the written consent of the Trustee, the rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
This Note is a Global Security registered in the name of a nominee of the Depository. This Note is exchangeable for Notes registered in the name of a person other than the Depository or its nominee only in the limited circumstances hereinafter described. Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for definitive Notes in certificated form, this Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository.
 
5
 
The Notes represented by this Global Security are exchangeable for definitive Notes in certificated form of like tenor as such Notes in denominations of $1,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof only if (i) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for the Notes or (ii) the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or (iii) the Company in its sole discretion decides to allow the Notes to be exchanged for definitive Notes in registered form. Any Notes that are exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence are exchangeable for certificated Notes issuable in authorized denominations and registered in such names as the Depository shall direct. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of definitive Notes in certificated form is registrable in the register maintained by the Company in The City of New York for such purpose, upon surrender of the definitive Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the registrar, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the registrar duly executed by, the holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. Subject to the foregoing, this Note is not exchangeable, except for a Global Security or Global Securities of this issue of the same principal amount to be registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Company will pay additional amounts ("Additional Amounts") to the beneficial owner of any Note that is a non-United States person in order to ensure that every net payment on such Note will not be less, due to payment of U.S. withholding tax, than the amount then due and payable. For this purpose, a "net payment" on a Note means a payment by the Company or a paying agent, including payment of principal and interest, after deduction for any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge of the United States. These Additional Amounts will constitute additional interest on the Note.
The Company will not be required to pay Additional Amounts, however, in any of the circumstances described in items (1) through (13) below.
 
6
 
 
For purposes of items (1) through (4) above, "beneficial owner" means a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of the holder if the holder is an estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other entity, or a person holding a power over an estate or trust administered by a fiduciary holder.
 
 
7
 
 
 
8
 
 
Except as specifically provided herein, the Company will not be required to make any payment of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any government or a political subdivision or taxing authority of such government.
As used in this Note, "United States person" means:
Additionally, "non-United States person" means a person who is not a United States person, and "United States" means the states of the United States of America and the District of Columbia, but excluding its territories and its possessions.
 
9
 
Except as provided below, the Notes may not be redeemed prior to maturity.
 
(1)
 
The Company may, at its option, redeem the Notes if:
Any redemption of the Notes as set forth in clauses (1) or (2) above shall be in whole, and not in part, and will be made at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes Outstanding plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption. Holders shall be given not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior notice by the Trustee of the date fixed for such redemption.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. The Notes are governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
10
 


