FILE:C/C-8K-20080505125713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 30, 2008, Citigroup Inc. priced an offering of 178,076,770 shares of its common stock, par value $0.01 per share, to be sold in a public offering for which Citigroup Global Markets Inc. was sole bookrunner and underwriter, at an offering price per share of $25.27, less the underwriting discount. On May 1, 2008, the underwriter exercised its over-allotment option to purchase an additional 16,250,951 shares at the same price per share, less the underwriting discount, for a total of 194,327,721 shares. Settlement for all shares occurred on May 5, 2008.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Number

 
New York, New York April 30, 2008
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.    as Representative of the several Underwriters c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Citigroup Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes, upon the terms and conditions set forth herein, to issue and sell 178,076,770 shares of the common stock of the Company (the "Common Stock"), par value $0.01 per share (the "Underwritten Securities"), to the several Underwriters named in Schedule I hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you (the "Representative") are acting as representative. The Company also proposes to grant the Underwriters an option to purchase 17,807,677 additional shares of Common Stock to cover over-allotments (the "Option Securities" and, together with the Underwritten Securities, the "Securities").
          The Company wishes to confirm as follows its agreement with you and the other several Underwriters listed on Schedule I on whose behalf you are acting, in connection with the several purchases of the Securities by the Underwriters. To the extent there are no additional Underwriters listed on Schedule I other than you, the term Representatives as used herein shall mean you, as Underwriter, and the terms Representatives and Underwriters shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 which were filed under the Exchange Act on or before the Effective Date of the Registration Statement or the issue date of the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference herein to the terms "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the filing of any document under the Exchange Act after the Effective Date of the Registration Statement or the issue date of the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus, as the case may be, deemed to be incorporated therein by reference. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 21 hereof.
          1. . The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Act and has prepared and filed with the Commission
Registration Statement and Prospectus
 
an automatic shelf registration statement, as defined in Rule 405 (File No. 333-132177), including a related Base Prospectus, for registration under the Act of the offering and sale of the Securities. Such Registration Statement, including any amendments thereto filed prior to the date hereof, became effective upon filing. The Company may have filed with the Commission, as part of an amendment to the Registration Statement or pursuant to Rule 424(b), one or more Preliminary Prospectuses relating to the Securities, each of which has previously been furnished to you. The Company will file with the Commission a Final Prospectus relating to the Securities in accordance with Rule 424(b). As filed, such Final Prospectus shall contain all information required by the Act and the rules thereunder, and, except to the extent the Representative shall agree in writing to a modification, shall be in all substantive respects in the form furnished to you prior to the date hereof or, to the extent not completed by the date hereof, shall contain only such specific additional information and other changes (beyond that contained in the Base Prospectus and any Preliminary Prospectus) as the Company has advised you, prior to the date hereof, will be included or made therein. The Registration Statement, as of the date hereof, meets the requirements set forth in Rule 415(a)(1)(x). The initial Effective Date of the Registration Statement was not earlier than the date three years before the date hereof.
          2. . (a) The Company hereby agrees, subject to all the terms and conditions set forth herein, to issue and sell to each Underwriter and, upon the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements of the Company herein contained and subject to all the terms and conditions set forth herein each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of $24.575 per Security, the number of Underwritten Securities set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter in Schedule I hereto (or such number of Securities increased as set forth in Section 11 hereof).
Agreements to Sell and Purchase
          Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the several Underwriters to purchase, severally and not jointly, up to 17,807,677 Option Securities at the same purchase price per share as the Underwriters shall pay for the Underwritten Securities. Said option may be exercised in whole or in part at any time or from time to time on or before the 30 day after the date of the Final Prospectus, upon written or facsimile notice by the Representative to the Company setting forth the number of Option Securities as to which the several Underwriters are exercising the option and the date on which delivery and payment shall occur, which shall not be less than three Business Days after the date of the notice of exercise. The number of Option Securities to be purchased by each Underwriter shall be the same percentage of the total number of Option Securities to be purchased by the several Underwriters as such Underwriter is purchasing of the Underwritten Securities, subject to such adjustments as the Representative, in its absolute discretion, shall make to eliminate any fractional shares.
th
          3. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
          4. . Delivery to the Underwriters of, and payment for, the Underwritten Securities shall be made at the office of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, One Liberty Plaza, New York, New York 10006, at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on May 5, 2008 (the "Closing Date"). Delivery to the Underwriters
Delivery of the Securities and Payment Therefor
 
of, and payment for, the Option Securities (if the option provided for in Section 2(b) hereof is exercised) shall be made on the date and at the time specified in the notice of exercise of the option, which shall not be less than three Business Days after the date of the notice. The place of closing for the Underwritten Securities and the Closing Date may be varied by agreement between you and the Company.
          Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representative for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters against payment by the several Underwriters directly or through the Representative of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to an account specified by the Company. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representative shall otherwise instruct.
          It is understood that the Representative, acting individually and not in a representative capacity, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment to the Company on behalf of any other Underwriter for Securities to be purchased by such Underwriter. Any such payment by the Representative shall not relieve any such Underwriter of any of its obligations hereunder.
          5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Agreements of the Company
     (a) Prior to the termination of the offering of the Securities, the Company will not file any amendment of the Registration Statement or supplement to any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus unless the Company has furnished the Representative a copy for their review prior to filing and will not file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which they reasonably object. The Company will cause the Final Prospectus, properly completed, and any supplement thereto, to be filed in a form acceptable to the Representative with the Commission pursuant to the applicable paragraph of Rule 424(b) within the time period prescribed and will provide evidence satisfactory to the Representative of such timely filing. The Company will promptly advise the Representative (1) when the Final Prospectus, and any supplement thereto, shall have been filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b), (2) when, prior to termination of the offering of the Securities, any amendment to the Registration Statement shall have been filed or become effective, (3) of any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment of the Registration Statement, or for any supplement to the Final Prospectus or for any additional information, (4) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any notice objecting to its use or the institution or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose and (5) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the occurrence of any such suspension or objection to the use of the Registration Statement and, upon such issuance, occurrence or notice of objection, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal of such stop order or relief from such occurrence or objection, including, if necessary, by filing an amendment to the Registration Statement or a new registration
 
statement and using its best efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable.
     (b) If, at any time prior to the filing of the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b), any event occurs as a result of which the Disclosure Package would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein in the light of the circumstances under which they were made at such time not misleading, the Company will (i) notify promptly the Representative so that any use of the Disclosure Package may cease until it is amended or supplemented; (ii) amend or supplement the Disclosure Package to correct such statement or omission; and (iii) supply any amendment or supplement to you in such quantities as you may reasonably request.
     (c) If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Securities is required to be delivered under the Act (including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172), any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein in the light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, or if it shall be necessary to amend the Registration Statement, file a new registration statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act or the Exchange Act or the respective rules thereunder, including in connection with use or delivery of the Final Prospectus, the Company promptly will (i) notify the Representative of such event, (ii) prepare and file with the Commission, subject to the second sentence of paragraph (a) of this Section 5, an amendment or supplement or new registration statement which will correct such statement or omission or effect such compliance, (iii) use its best efforts to have any amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable in order to avoid any disruption in use of the Final Prospectus and (iv) supply any supplemented Final Prospectus to the Representative in such quantities as the Representative may reasonably request.
     (d) As soon as practicable, the Company will make generally available to its security holders and to the Representative a consolidated earnings statement or statements of the Company and its subsidiaries which will satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158.
     (e) Upon request, the Company will furnish to the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement (including exhibits thereto) and to each other Underwriter a copy of the Registration Statement (without exhibits thereto) and, so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be required by the Act (including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172), as many copies of any Preliminary Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and any supplement thereto as the Representative may reasonably request. The Company will pay the expenses of printing or other production of all documents relating to the offering that are required to be prepared, furnished or delivered by the Company.
 
     (f) The Company will arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as the Representative reasonably may designate, will maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities and will pay any fee of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (as successor to the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.), in connection with its review of the offering; that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not now so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the offering or sale of the Securities, in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject.
provided
     (g) (i) The Company agrees that, unless it has obtained or will obtain, as the case may be, the prior written consent of the Representative, and (ii) each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees with the Company that, unless it has obtained or will obtain, as the case may be, the prior written consent of the Company, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433, other than the press release issued April 29, 2008 announcing the offering of the Securities (the "April 29 Press Release") and the press release issued April 30, 2008 announcing the final terms of the Securities (the "April 30 Press Release" and, together with the April 29 Press Release, the "Press Releases"). The Press Releases and any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representative or the Company are each hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company agrees that (x) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and (y) it has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.
     (h) For a period of 60 days from the date of the Final Prospectus, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, or otherwise dispose of (or enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition (whether by actual disposition or effective economic disposition due to cash settlement or otherwise) by the Company or any affiliate of the Company or any person in privity with the Company or any affiliate of the Company), directly or indirectly, including the filing (or participation in the filing) of a registration statement with the Commission in respect of, or establish or increase a put equivalent position or liquidate or decrease a call equivalent position within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, any other shares of Common Stock or any securities convertible into, exercisable for, or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock, except for (i) the offering of the Securities, (ii) issuances and sales of Common Stock pursuant to any employee stock option plan, stock ownership plan, dividend reinvestment plan or similar plan of the Company and (iii) the issuance of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of securities or the exercise of warrants outstanding on the date hereof.
 
     (i) The Company will comply with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, and use its best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
     (j) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities, except that the Company makes no agreement as to the activities of any Underwriter.
     (k) The Company shall use its reasonable efforts to furnish to the Representative a letter addressed to the Representative substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto from each of the persons listed in Exhibit B hereto.
          6. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Underwriter that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
     (a) On each Effective Date, the Registration Statement did, and when the Final Prospectus is first filed in accordance with Rule 424(b) and on the Closing Date and on any date on which Option Securities are purchased, if such date is not the Closing Date (a "settlement date"), the Final Prospectus (and any supplement thereto) will, comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Act and the Exchange Act and the respective rules thereunder; on each Effective Date and on the date hereof, the Registration Statement did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; on the date of any filing pursuant to Rule 424(b) and on the Closing Date and any settlement date, the Final Prospectus (together with any supplement thereto) will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; , that the Company makes no representations or warranties as to the information contained in or omitted from the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus (or any supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for inclusion in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus (or any supplement thereto), it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriters consists of the information described as such in Section 7 hereof.
provided, however
     (b) The execution and delivery of, and the performance by the Company and its obligations under, this Agreement have been duly and validly authorized by the Company, and this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
     (c) This issuance of Common Stock has been duly authorized by the Company and, when the Common Stock is issued and delivered to and paid for by the
 
Underwriter pursuant to this Agreement, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable; the holders of outstanding shares of the common stock of the Company are not entitled to preemptive or other rights to subscribe for the Securities; and, except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, no options, warrants or other rights to purchase, agreements or other obligations to issue, or rights to convert any obligations into or exchange any securities for, shares of common stock or ownership interest in the Company are outstanding.
     (d) As of the date hereof, the Disclosure Package and the price to the public, the number of Underwritten Securities and the number of Option Securities to be included on the cover of the Final Prospectus, when taken together as a whole, does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 7 hereof.
     (e) (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on their behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c)) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption in Rule 163 and (iv) on the date hereof (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (iv)), the Company was or is (as the case may be) a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405. The Company agrees to pay the fees required by the Commission relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
     (f) (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Securities and (ii) as of the date hereof (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
bona fide
     (g) No Issuer Free Writing Prospectus includes any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement, including any document incorporated therein and any prospectus supplement deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified. The foregoing sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the
 
Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 7 hereof.
          Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Representative or counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to each Underwriter.
          7. .
Indemnification and Contribution
     (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, the directors, officers, employees and agents of each Underwriter and each person who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the registration statement for the registration of the Securities as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
provided, however
     (b) Each Underwriter severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs the Registration Statement, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Underwriter, but only with reference to written information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Underwriter through the Representative specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that any Underwriter may otherwise have. The Company acknowledges that the statements set forth (i) in the last paragraph of the cover page regarding delivery of the Securities and, under the heading "Underwriting", (ii) the list of Underwriters and their respective participation in the sale of the Securities, (iii) the sentences related to concessions and
 
reallowances and (iv) the paragraphs related to stabilization, syndicate covering transactions and penalty bids in any Preliminary Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the several Underwriters for inclusion in any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
     (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 7 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 7, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest, (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
provided, however
     (d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this Section 7 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company and the Underwriters severally agree to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending same) (collectively "Losses") to
 
which the Company and one or more of the Underwriters may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and by the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities; , that in no case shall any Underwriter (except as may be provided in any agreement among underwriters relating to the offering of the Securities) be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Underwriter hereunder. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company and the Underwriters severally shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by it, and benefits received by the Underwriters shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, in each case as set forth on the cover page of the Final Prospectus. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the Company on the one hand or the Underwriters on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 7, each person who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
provided, however
          8. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase the Underwritten Securities and the Option Securities, as the case may be, shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company contained herein as of the date hereof, the Closing Date and any settlement date, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions of the Underwriters' Obligations
     (a) The Final Prospectus, and any supplement thereto, have been filed in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b); the April 30 Press Release and any other material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d)
 
under the Act shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings by Rule 433; and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any notice objecting to its use shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or threatened.
     (b) The Company shall have requested and caused Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel to the Company, to have furnished to the Representative an opinion, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Representative, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Disclosure Package, the Final Prospectus (together with any supplement thereto) and other related matters as the Representative may reasonably require. Insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, such counsel may rely, to the extent such counsel deems proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company, its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
     (c) The Company shall have requested and caused Michael S. Zuckert, General Counsel, Finance and Capital Markets of the Company, to have furnished to the Representative an opinion, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Representative, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Final Prospectus (together with any supplement thereto) and other related matters as the Representative may reasonably require.
     (d) The Representative shall have received from Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Representative, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Final Prospectus (together with any supplement thereto) and other related matters as the Representative may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
     (e) The Company shall have furnished to the Representative a certificate of the Company, signed, in the case of the Company, by the Chairman, any Vice Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, the General Counsel, the Controller or any Deputy Controller and by the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have carefully examined the Registration Statement, the Final Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and any supplements or amendments thereto, and this Agreement and that:
     (i) the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on the Closing Date and the Company has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date;
     (ii) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any notice objecting to its use has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, threatened; and
 
     (iii) since the date of the most recent financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto), there has been no material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
     (f) The Company shall have requested and caused KPMG LLP to have furnished to the Representative, on and as of the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date, customary "comfort letters" that are satisfactory in content and form to the Representative.
     (g) Subsequent to the date hereof or, if earlier, the dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement (exclusive of any amendment thereof), any Preliminary Prospectus and the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto), there shall not have been (i) any change or decrease specified in the letter or letters referred to in paragraph (f) of this Section 8 or (ii) any change, or any development involving a prospective change, in or affecting the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) the effect of which, in any case referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above, is, in the sole judgment of the Representative after consultation with the Company, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by the Registration Statement (exclusive of any amendment thereof), the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
     (h) Subsequent to the date hereof, there shall not have been any decrease in the rating of any of the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the Act) or any notice given of any intended or potential decrease in any such rating or of a possible change in any such rating that does not indicate the direction of the possible change.
     (i) The Company shall have made application to list the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange.
     (j) The Company shall have furnished to the Representative such further information, certificates and documents as the Representative may reasonably request.
          If any of the conditions specified in this Section 8 shall not have been fulfilled when and as provided in this Agreement with respect to the offering of the Securities, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters, this Agreement and all obligations of the Underwriters hereunder may be canceled with respect to such offering at, or at any time prior to, the Closing Date by the Representative.
 
Notice of such cancellation shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
          The documents required to be delivered by this Section 8 shall be delivered at the office of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, at One Liberty Plaza, New York, New York 10006, by 9:00 a.m. (New York Time) on the Closing Date.
          9. . The Company agrees to pay the following costs and expenses and all other costs and expenses incident to the performance by it of its obligations hereunder: (i) the preparation, printing or reproduction, and filing with the Commission of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits thereto), any Preliminary Prospectus and the Final Prospectus (including filing fees), each amendment or supplement to any of them, this Agreement; (ii) the printing (or reproduction) and delivery (including postage, air freight charges and charges for counting and packaging) of such copies of the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, the documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, and all amendments or supplements to any of them, as may be reasonably requested for use in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities; (iii) the preparation, printing (or reproduction), authentication, issuance and delivery of the Securities, including any stamp taxes in connection with the original issuance and sale of the Securities; (iv) the printing (or reproduction) and delivery of this Agreement and all other agreements, documents and certificates (including certificates representing the Securities) printed (or reproduced) and delivered in connection with the offering of the Securities; (v) the registration of the Securities under the Exchange Act and the listing of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange; (vi) the registration or qualification of the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of the several states as provided in Section 5(g) hereof (including the reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters relating to the preparation, printing (or reproduction), and delivery of the preliminary and supplemental Blue Sky Memoranda and such registration and qualification); (vii) the filing fees and the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with any filings required to be made with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (as successor to the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.); (viii) the fees and expenses associated with obtaining ratings for the Securities from nationally recognized statistical rating organizations; (ix) the transportation and other expenses incurred by or on behalf of representatives of the Company (other than the Underwriters and their representatives) in connection with presentations to prospective purchasers of the Securities; and (x) the fees and expenses of the Company's accountants and the fees and expenses of counsel (including local and special counsel) for the Company.
Expenses
          10. . If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Company set forth in Section 8 hereof is not satisfied, because of any termination pursuant to Section 11 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Underwriters, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters severally through the Representative on demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
 
          11. Reserved.
          12. . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representative, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if at any time prior to such time (i) trading in the Company's Common Stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such Exchange, (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared either by Federal or New York State authorities or (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war, or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representative after consultation with the Company, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
Termination of Agreement
          13. . The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Company or any of the officers, directors, employees, agents or controlling persons referred to in Section 7 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 7 and 10 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
          14. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed if to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Representative of the several Underwriters, to 390 Greenwich Street, 4 Floor, New York, New York 10013 (fax no.: (212) 816-7912) Attention: General Counsel, and if to the Company, at the office of the Company at 425 Park Avenue, 2 Floor, New York, New York 10043, Attention: General Counsel, Finance and Capital Markets (fax no.: (212) 793-4401).
Notices
th
nd
          15. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers, directors, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Section 7 hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
          16. . The Company hereby acknowledges that (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters and any affiliate through which it may be acting, on the other, (ii) the Underwriters are acting as principal and not as an agent or fiduciary of the Company and (iii) the Company's engagement of the Underwriters in connection with the offering and the process leading up to the offering is as independent contractors and not in any other capacity. Furthermore, the Company agrees that it is solely responsible for making its own judgments in connection with the offering (irrespective of whether any of the Underwriters has advised or is currently advising the Company on related or other matters). The Company agrees that it will not claim that the Underwriters have rendered
No Fiduciary Duty
 
advisory services of any nature or respect, or owe an agency, fiduciary or similar duty to it, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
          17. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) among the Company and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
          18. . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York.
Applicable Law
          19. . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
          20. . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
          21. . The terms which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
     "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
     "Base Prospectus" shall mean the base prospectus contained in the Registration Statement as of the date hereof.
     "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City.
     "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Base Prospectus, (ii) the Preliminary Prospectus, if any, used most recently prior to the date hereof, (iii) the April 29 Press Release and (iv) any Free Writing Prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package.
     "Effective Date" shall mean each date and time that the Registration Statement, any post-effective amendment or amendments thereto became or become effective.
     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
     "Final Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus supplement relating to the Securities that was first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date hereof, together with the Base Prospectus.
 
     "Free Writing Prospectus" shall mean a free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 405.
     "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" shall mean an issuer free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 433.
     "Preliminary Prospectus" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement which is used prior to filing of the Final Prospectus.
     "Registration Statement" shall mean the registration statement referred to in paragraph 1(a) above, including exhibits and financial statements and any prospectus supplement relating to the Securities that is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and deemed part of such registration statement pursuant to Rule 430B, as amended on each Effective Date and, in the event any post-effective amendment thereto becomes effective prior to the Closing Date, shall also mean such registration statement as so amended.
     "Rule 163", "Rule 164", "Rule 172", "Rule 405", "Rule 415", "Rule 424", "Rule 430B" and "Rule 433" refer to such rules under the Act.
 
     Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the agreement among the Company and the several Underwriters.
 
Confirmed as of the date first above mentioned on behalf of themselves and the other several Underwriters named in Schedule I hereto.
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. as Representative of the several Underwriters
By: CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
 
 
Exhibit A
April 30, 2008
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          This letter is being delivered to you in connection with the proposed Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement"), between Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and you as the Underwriter named therein, relating to an underwritten public offering of shares of the common stock of the Company (the "Common Stock").
          In order to induce you to enter into the Underwriting Agreement, the undersigned will not, without the prior written consent of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of (or enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition (whether by actual disposition or effective economic disposition due to cash settlement or otherwise) by the undersigned or any affiliate of the undersigned or any person in privity with the undersigned or any affiliate of the undersigned), directly or indirectly, including the filing (or participation in the filing) of a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect of, or establish or increase a put equivalent position or liquidate or decrease a call equivalent position within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder with respect to, any shares of Common Stock of the Company or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock, or publicly announce an intention to effect any such transaction, for a period of 60 days after the date of the Underwriting Agreement, other than shares of Common Stock disposed of as bona fide gifts approved by Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
          If for any reason the Underwriting Agreement shall be terminated prior to the Closing Date (as defined in the Underwriting Agreement), the agreement set forth above shall likewise be terminated.
 
Exhibit B
List of Directors and Senior Officers Pursuant to Section 5(l)
C. Michael Armsstrong Alain J.P. Belda Sir Win Bischoff Kenneth T. Derr John M. Deutch Roberto Hernndez Ramrez Andrew N. Liveris Anne Mulcahy Vikram Pandit Richard D. Parsons Judith Rodin Robert E. Rubin Robert L. Ryan Franklin A. Thomas
Directors
Ajay Banga Gary Crittenden Steven J. Freiberg John C. Gerspach Michael Helfer Lewis B. Kaden Michael Klein Sallie L. Krawcheck Manuel Medina-Mora William R. Rhodes Stephen Volk James A. Forese John Havens Brian Leach
Executive Officers


