FILE:C/C-8K-20080117172003.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On January 17, 2008, Citigroup Inc. announced the pricing of its previously disclosed $12.5 billion private sale of depositary shares representing 7% Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.
     A copy of the press release announcing the pricing described above is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C) January 17, 2008
NEW YORK  Citi announced the pricing for the company's previously disclosed $12.5 billion private offering of depositary shares representing 7% Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. The preferred stock will have a conversion price of $31.62.
As a result of the pricing of the $12.5 billion private offering and, as contractually required, the maximum conversion price on Citi's $7.5 billion Upper DECS Equity Units previously sold in a private placement to the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority will be reduced to $31.83, effective within 90 days after December 3, 2008.
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citi's major brand names include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney and Banamex. Additional information may be found at or .
www.citigroup.com
www.citi.com
Contacts


