FILE:C/C-8K-20080326172643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 26, 2008, Citigroup Inc. issued a press release announcing that it has reached settlement agreements resolving the two largest remaining claims against Citigroup arising out of the collapse of Enron in 2001. Both settlements are fully covered by Citigroups existing litigation reserves.
Under the terms of one of the settlement agreements, Citigroup will pay $1.66 billion to Enron and withdraw certain claims in the Enron bankruptcy proceeding.
Enron will release all of its claims against Citigroup and certain other parties.  Enron will also allow specified Citigroup-related claims in the bankruptcy proceeding, including all of the bankruptcy claims of parties holding approximately $2.4 billion of Enron credit-linked notes (CLNs).   Citigroup reached a separate settlement agreement resolving all disputes with the holders of the CLNs, including a suit against Citigroup pending in the Federal District Court in Houston.
The settlements provide that Citigroup denies any wrongdoing and has agreed to the settlements solely to eliminate the uncertainties, burden and expense of further protracted litigation. The Enron settlement agreements must be approved by the bankruptcy court.
A copy of the press release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit Number
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Number

[logo]
For Immediate Release
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C)
March 26
, 2008
NEW YORK - Citi today announced it has reached settlement agreements resolving the two largest remaining claims against Citi arising out of the collapse of Enron in 2001. Both settlements are fully covered by Citis existing litigation reserves.
The Enron Bankruptcy Estate (Enron) had filed bankruptcy and fraud claims against Citi in the United States Bankruptcy Court in New York totaling approximately $21 billion. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Citi will pay $1.66 billion to Enron and withdraw certain claims in the Enron bankruptcy proceeding.
Enron will release all of its claims against Citi and certain other parties.  Enron will also allow specified Citi-related claims in the bankruptcy proceeding, including all of the bankruptcy claims of parties holding approximately $2.4 billion of Enron credit-linked notes (CLNs).   Citi reached a separate settlement agreement resolving all disputes with the holders of the CLNs, including a suit against Citi pending in the Federal District Court in Houston.
The settlements provide that Citi denies any wrongdoing and has agreed to the settlements solely to eliminate the uncertainties, burden and expense of further protracted litigation. The Enron settlement agreements must be approved by the bankruptcy court.
Citi made the following statement about the settlements: We are pleased to have reached a successful resolution of the two largest outstanding matters dating from the Enron disputes.
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citis major brand names include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney, Banamex, and Nikko. Additional information may be found at or .
www.citigroup.com
www.citi.com
 
 
 
 
 


