FILE:C/C-8K-20080130091650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)        
January 29, 2008
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
o
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On January 29, 2008, Citigroup Inc. together with Nikko Cordial Corporation announced the successful completion of their share exchange pursuant to which Nikko Cordial Corporation has become a direct 100%-owned subsidiary of Citigroup Japan Holdings Ltd.
A copy of the press release announcing the successful completion of the share exchange described above is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  January 30, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C; TSE: 8710)
Nikko Cordial Corporation
January 29, 2008
 
 
Citi and Nikko Cordial Corporation
Successfully Complete Share Exchange
 
TOKYO  Nikko Cordial Corporation has become a direct 100%-owned subsidiary of Citigroup Japan Holdings Ltd. following the successful completion of their share exchange, it was announced by Citi and Nikko Cordial Corporation today.
 
The share exchange, which became effective today, was approved by Nikko Cordial Corporation shareholders on December 19, 2007. As of today's effective date, Citigroup Japan Holdings exchanged approximately 174.7 million shares of common stock of Citigroup Inc. for approximately 290.1 million shares of common stock of Nikko Cordial Corporation. The share exchange was completed at the previously announced exchange ratio of 0.602 shares of Citigroup Inc. common stock for each share of Nikko Cordial Corporation common stock. All Citigroup Inc. common shares used in the share exchange were comprised of previously issued shares held in treasury by Citigroup Inc. The total value of Citigroup Inc. common shares exchanged for Nikko Cordial Corporation common shares, based on the January 28, 2008 closing price of Citi's common shares on the New York Stock Exchange, was approximately US$4.8 billion.
 
# # #
 
Citigroup
 
 
 
Nikko Cordial Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citi's major brand names include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney, Banamex and Nikko. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com or www.citi.com.
 
Nikko Cordial Corporation is a diversified financial services group for providing securities related services and meeting various financial needs such as capital funding and asset management. Additional information may be found at
www.nikko.jp/index_e.html
.
 
Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors. More information about these factors is contained in Citigroup's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 


