FILE:C/C-8K-20080711113545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 11, 2008, Citigroup Inc. announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell Citibank Privatkunden AG & Co. KGaA, its German retail banking operation, and certain of its affiliates, to Credit Mutuel, the third-largest retail banking group in France. Credit Mutuel will pay all-cash consideration of Euro 4.9 billion (US$7.7 billion) plus earnings accrued in 2008 through the closing. The sale is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2008, pending regulatory approvals.
The transaction is expected to result in an estimated after-tax gain of $4 billion to Citi upon closing. After giving effect to the proposed sale, Citis Tier 1 capital ratio would have increased by approximately 60 basis points as of March 31, 2008.
A copy of the press release announcing the sale is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)         
Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

For Immediate Release
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C)
July 11, 2008
 
Dsseldorf/New York - Citi announced today that it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell Citibank Privatkunden AG & Co. KGaA, its German retail banking operation, and certain of its affiliates, to Credit Mutuel, the third largest retail banking group in France. Credit Mutuel will pay all-cash consideration of Euro 4.9 billion (US$ 7.7 billion) plus earnings accrued in 2008 through the closing. Citibank, one of Germanys most efficient retail banks, generated post tax earnings in 2007 of Euro 365 million and at year-end 2007 had a net asset value of Euro 944 million, in each case based on German accounting principles. The sale is expected to close in the fourth quarter pending regulatory approvals.
The transaction is expected to
result in an estimated after-tax gain of $4 billion to Citi upon closing. After giving effect to the proposed sale, Citis Tier 1 capital ratio would have increased by approximately 60 basis points as of March 31, 2008.
The decision to sell Citis retail banking business in Germany came as the result of a global strategic review conducted by Citis Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit. Todays transaction reflects Citis stated aim of redirecting capital to core businesses and emerging growth markets. Citi remains strongly committed to its remaining German businesses, including its full service corporate and investment banking business and its European data center, which is
the biggest Citi data center outside the United States
.
We are very pleased with this transaction and believe Credit Mutuel is an outstanding choice to continue to provide excellent service to Citibank's retail customers in Germany. This is another strategic step in our effort to reorganize Citi, strengthen our balance sheet, and put us squarely on the path to future growth driven by our core businesses, said Mr. Pandit. In Germany, our talented corporate and investment banking teams remain central to our strategy and were committed to maintaining their leadership position in this market.
Citis Institutional Clients Group advised Citi on this transaction.
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citi's major brand names include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney, Banamex and Nikko. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com or www.citi.com.
 
1
 
Contacts:
 
2
 
 


