FILE:C/C-8K-20081126170643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement; Item 3.02 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
     On November 24, 2008, Citigroup Inc. announced it reached an agreement with the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to add $40 billion of capital benefit to Citigroup through a government guarantee on $306 billion of its assets and through the issuance of preferred stock and a warrant.
The agreement includes the following terms and conditions:
     A copy of the press release announcing the agreement described above is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. A summary of the terms of the eligible asset guarantee, the preferred stock and the warrant is being filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K. Both exhibits are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
November 23, 2008
 
November 23, 2008
 
November 23, 2008
 
November 23, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release Citigroup Inc. (NYSE symbol: C) November 24, 2008
New York  Citi (NYSE: C) today announced that it has reached an agreement with the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) on a series of steps to strengthen Citi's capital ratios, reduce risk, and increase liquidity, as described below:
CAPITAL
 
The program significantly strengthens Citi's key capital ratios by generating approximately $40 billion of capital benefits as follows:
Citi's Tier 1 capital ratio for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008, on a pro forma basis, for the October TARP capital injection and the new capital generated by today's announcement, subject to Federal Reserve Board approval, is expected to be approximately 14.8% and its TCE/RWMA ratio would be approximately 9.3%.
RISK REDUCTION
Under the guarantee, Citi will assume any losses on the portfolio up to $29 billion on a pre-tax basis, in addition to Citi's existing reserves; the government entities will assume 90% of any losses above that level and Citi will assume the balance. Citi will retain these assets on its balance sheet and realize the associated cash flow.
LIQUIDITY
In addition to its extensive access to existing liquidity sources, Citi has been provided expanded access to both the Federal Reserve's Primary Dealer Credit Facility and the discount window, resulting in strong additional liquidity resources should they be needed. Citi also has access to the yet-unused Federal Reserve's Commercial Paper Funding Facility and intends to issue debt under the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.
The agreement also provides that an executive compensation plan, including bonuses, that rewards long-term performance and profitability, with appropriate limitations, must be submitted to, and approved by, the U.S. government.
"This weekend, the U.S. government and Citi worked together in an unprecedented way to address market confidence and the recent decline in Citi's stock price," said Vikram S. Pandit, Chief Executive Officer. "We reached an agreement based on an innovative market solution to further strengthen our capital ratios, reduce risk, and increase liquidity. We appreciate the tremendous effort by the government to assure market stability.
"We are committed to streamlining our business and providing outstanding banking services to our clients around the world. We will continue to focus on opportunities and alternatives to further enhance the company's overall position and value," Mr. Pandit concluded.
 
The transaction has been unanimously approved by the Citi Board of Directors.
For more details, please see the term sheet for the transaction at
www.citigroup.com/citi/fin/index.htm
Citi
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citi's major brand names include Citibank, CitiiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney, Banamex, and Nikko. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com or www.citi.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors. More information about these factors is contained in Citi's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


