FILE:C/C-8K-20080118154948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported):
January 18, 2008
 
Citigroup Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(212) 559-1000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01
  
Other Events.
On January 18, 2008, Citigroup Inc. announced the determination of the definitive exchange ratio to be used in the previously agreed share exchange between Citigroup Inc. and Nikko Cordial Corporation. The share exchange becomes effective on January 29, 2008.
A copy of the press release announcing the exchange ratio described above is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
Item 9.01
      
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 18, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C; TSE: 8710)
January 18, 2008
 
Citi Announces Definitive Exchange Ratio for
Share Exchange with Nikko Cordial Corporation
 
Nikko Cordial Shareholders to Receive 0.602 Citigroup Shares
For Each Nikko Cordial Share That They Own
 
Tokyo / New York  Citi announced today that Nikko Cordial Corporation shareholders will be entitled to receive 0.602 shares of Citigroup Inc. common stock for each share of Nikko Cordial Corporation common stock that they own under the previously agreed share exchange between Citi and Nikko Cordial. The share exchange becomes effective on January 29, 2008.
 
In accordance with the share exchange agreement that was approved at the extraordinary general meeting of Nikko Cordial Corporation shareholders held on December 19, 2007, the definitive exchange ratio was determined by reference to the average of the volume-weighted average prices per Citigroup Inc. common share on the New York Stock Exchange on each of the three trading days ending on (and including) January 17, 2008, converted from U.S. dollars into Japanese yen at the exchange rate referenced in the share exchange agreement.
 
"Citi has been serving clients in Japan for more than a century. We look forward to the successful completion of the share exchange and to formally welcoming Nikko Cordial shareholders to our company," said Vikram Pandit, Chief Executive Officer of Citi. "Nikko Cordial's premier franchise and brand and its strong and established client network will help us create Japan's leading comprehensive banking and securities group."
 
"This is a significant step toward realizing the benefits from our comprehensive strategic alliance with Nikko Cordial," said Douglas Peterson, Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup Japan Holdings. "By leveraging the strengths of both Citi and Nikko in this important market, we aim to better serve our customers in Japan."
 
###
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citi's major brands include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney and Banamex. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com or www.citi.com.
 
Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors. More information about these factors is contained in Citigroup's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
2
 
 
 


