FILE:C/C-8K-20080612133958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On June 12, 2008, Citigroup Inc. issued a press release announcing its intention to restructure Old Lane and its multi-strategy hedge fund, a decision reached in anticipation of redemptions by all unaffiliated, non-Citi employee investors.
A copy of the press release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
   
Exhibits.
Exhibit Number
           99.1
  
   
Press release
, dated June 12, 2008, issued by Citigroup Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Number
           99.1
  
   
Press release
, dated June 12, 2008, issued by Citigroup Inc.
 
 
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C)
June 12
, 2008
NEW YORK -
Citigroup today announced its intention to restructure Old Lane and its multi-strategy hedge fund, a decision reached in anticipation of redemptions by all unaffiliated, non-Citi employee investors. The restructuring is designed to meet Citis objective to retain talent and create synergies among the companys trading platforms.
In the first quarter of 2008, following the promotion of key Old Lane executives to other positions at Citi, Old Lane notified investors in its multi-strategy hedge fund that they would have the opportunity to redeem their investments in the fund, without restriction, effective July 31, 2008.
As part of the restructuring, certain Old Lane strategies - convertible equities, credit fixed income, and structured credits - will be integrated into the proprietary activities of Citis Securities and Banking business. These three particular strategies complement the existing scale and expertise within Citis Securities and Banking franchise and will be managed from a single platform. Old Lane will establish a number of single-strategy funds with future offerings designed to meet client demand as part of the Citi Alternative Investments (CAI) client platform.
Citi will purchase substantially all of the assets of the multi-strategy hedge fund at fair value, subject to independent third party validation, which will enable Old Lane to facilitate client redemptions at July 31.
These steps will maximize the synergies and talent that are housed within Old Lane and are consistent with Citis continuing effort to optimize resources, both within the Institutional Clients Group (ICG) and across Citi, said Ned Kelly, President and Chief Executive Officer of CAI. As such, our hedge fund offerings are important to our success and we must focus our resources and shape our organization accordingly.
 
 
 
All former Old Lane individual partners, including Vikram Pandit and other senior Citi executives will, as contemplated by the original Old Lane transaction agreements, be required to maintain their investments in Old Lane funds or other designated CAI funds.
All investors in the fund - third parties, Old Lane employees, Citi senior management and Citi proprietary investments - will be treated consistently during the unwind process, Mr. Kelly added.
The estimated second quarter 2008 financial impact from Old Lane's restructuring is an increase in Citi's GAAP assets of approximately $9 billion. In addition, on a pro forma basis, the Company's March 31, 2008, Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.74% would have declined by approximately four basis points, to approximately 7.70%.
 
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citis major brand names include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney, Nikko Cordial, and Banamex. Additional information may be found at
www.citigroup.com
or
www.citi.com
.
Media Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 


