FILE:C/C-8K-20090612135347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 3.03.  Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
 
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws.
 
On June 11, 2009, Citigroup Inc. () amended its Restated Certificate of Incorporation by filing a Certificate of Designation of Series R Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.  See the description set out under Items 1.01 and 3.03 of Citigroups Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 10, 2009, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a more complete description of the rights and preferences of the Series R Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock.  The Certificate of Designation is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Citigroup
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
June 12, 2009
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
Citigroup Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware thereof, does hereby certify:
Corporation
 
The board of directors of the Corporation (the ) or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, adopted the following resolution on June 9, 2009 creating a series of preferred stock of the Corporation from its blank check preferred stock authority designated as .
Board of Directors
Series R Preferred Stock
 
RESOLVED, that pursuant to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of preferred stock, created from its blank check preferred stock authority, par value $1.00 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
 
Section 1.  .  The shares of such series shall be designated as Series R Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (the ), and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 28,000.  Such number of shares of the Series R Preferred Stock may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series R Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares issuable upon exercise or conversion of outstanding rights, options or other securities issued by the Corporation.
Designation and Number of Shares
Series R Preferred Stock
provided
 
Section 2.  .  (a) Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series R Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series R Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series R Preferred Stock in respect thereof, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of
Dividends and Distributions
 
 
 
funds legally available for the purpose, regular quarterly dividends payable on such dates each year as designated by the Board of Directors (each such date being referred to herein as a ), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series R Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (i) $1.00 and (ii) the Multiplier Number times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends or other distributions and the Multiplier Number times the aggregate per share amount of all non-cash dividends or other distributions (other than (A) a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation (the ) or (B) a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise)), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series R Preferred Stock.  As used herein, the  shall be 1,000,000; that if, at any time after June 9, 2009, there shall be any change in the Common Stock, whether by reason of stock dividends, stock splits, reverse stock splits, recapitalization, mergers, consolidations, combinations or exchanges of securities, split-ups, split-offs, spin-offs, liquidations or other similar changes in capitalization, or any distribution or issuance of shares of its capital stock in a merger, share exchange, reclassification, or change of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, then in each such event the Board of Directors shall adjust the Multiplier Number to the extent appropriate such that following such adjustment each share of Series R Preferred Stock shall be in the same economic position as prior to such event.
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date
Common Stock
Multiplier Number
provided
 
(b)           The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series R Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2(a) immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than as described in Sections 2(a)(ii)(A) and 2(a)(ii)(B)); that if no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date (or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, the period between the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series R Preferred Stock and such first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date), a dividend of $1.00 per share on the Series R Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
provided
 
(c)           Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series R Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date immediately preceding the date of issuance of such shares of Series R Preferred Stock, unless the date of issuance of such shares is on or before the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a date after the record date for the
 
 
 
determination of holders of shares of Series R Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and on or before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.  Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  Dividends paid on shares of Series R Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding.  The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series R Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall not be more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
pro rata
 
Section 3.  .  In addition to any other voting rights required by law, the holders of shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
 
(a)           Each share of Series R Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to a number of votes equal to the Multiplier Number on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
 
(b)           Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares of Series R Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as a single class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
 
(c)           (i) If at any time dividends on any Series R Preferred Stock shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning of a period (herein called a ) which shall extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all shares of Series R Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment.  During each default period, all holders of Series R Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock then entitled as a class to elect directors, voting together as a single class, irrespective of series, shall have the right to elect two Directors.
default period
 
(ii)           During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Series R Preferred Stock may be exercised initially at a special meeting called pursuant to Section 3(c)(iii) hereof or at any annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of stockholders; that neither such voting right nor the right of the holders of any other series of Preferred Stock, if any, to increase, in certain cases, the authorized number of Directors shall be exercised unless the holders of 10% in number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding shall be present in person or by proxy.  The absence of a quorum of holders of Common
provided
 
 
 
Stock shall not affect the exercise by holders of Preferred Stock of such voting right.  At any meeting at which holders of Preferred Stock shall initially exercise such voting right, they shall have the right, voting as a class, to elect Directors to fill such vacancies, if any, in the Board of Directors as may then exist up to two Directors or, if such right is exercised at an annual meeting, to elect two Directors.  If the number which may be so elected at any special meeting does not amount to the required number, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have the right to make such increase in the number of Directors as shall be necessary to permit the election by them of the required number.  After the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect Directors in any default period and during the continuance of such period, the number of Directors shall not be increased or decreased except by vote of the holders of Preferred Stock as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of any equity securities ranking senior to or with the Series R Preferred Stock.
pari passu
 
(iii)           Unless the holders of Preferred Stock shall have previously exercised their right to elect Directors during an existing default period, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of holders of Preferred Stock, which meeting shall thereupon be called by the Chief Executive Officer, a Vice President or the Secretary of the Corporation.  Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this Section 3(c)(iii) shall be given to each holder of record of Preferred Stock by mailing such notice to him at the address of such holder shown on the registry books of the Corporation.  Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days and not later than 60 days after such order or request or in default of the calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 3(c)(iii), no such special meeting shall be called during the period within 60 days immediately preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of stockholders.
 
(iv)           In any default period, the holders of Common Stock, and other classes of stock of the Corporation if applicable, shall continue to be entitled to elect the whole number of Directors until the holders of Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect two Directors voting as a class, after the exercise of which right (x) the Directors so elected by the holders of Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their
 
 
 
successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration of the default period, and (y) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may (except as provided in Section 3(c)(ii) hereof) be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining Directors theretofore elected by the holders of the class of stock which elected the Director whose office shall have become vacant.  References in this Section 3(c) to Directors elected by the holders of a particular class of stock shall include Directors elected by such Directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (y) of the foregoing sentence.
 
(v)           Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of the holders of Preferred Stock as a class to elect Directors shall cease, (y) the term of any Directors elected by the holders of Preferred Stock as a class shall terminate, and (z) the number of Directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the certificate of incorporation or bylaws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3(c)(ii) (such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in the certificate of incorporation or bylaws).  Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected by the provisions of clauses (y) and (z) in the preceding sentence may be filled by a majority of the remaining Directors.
 
(d)           The certificate of incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner (whether by merger or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series R Preferred Stock without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series R Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
 
(e)           Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
 
Section 4.  .  (a) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series R Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on outstanding shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
Certain Restrictions
 
(i)           declare or pay dividends on, or make any other distributions on, any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) to the Series R Preferred Stock;
 
 
(ii)           declare or pay dividends on, or make any other distributions on, any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) with the Series R Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series R Preferred Stock and all such other parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
 
(iii)           redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire for value any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) to the Series R Preferred Stock; that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of stock of the Corporation ranking junior (as to dividends and upon dissolution, liquidation or winding-up) to the Series R Preferred Stock; or
provided
 
(iv)           redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire for value any shares of Series R Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) with the Series R Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of Series R Preferred Stock and all such other parity stock upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
 
(b)           The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for value any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph 4(a), purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
 
Section 5.  .  Any shares of Series R Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired promptly after the acquisition thereof.  All such shares shall upon their retirement become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by the Board of Directors as permitted by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation or as otherwise permitted under Delaware law.
Reacquired Shares
 
Section 6.  .  Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (a) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) to the Series R Preferred Stock
Liquidation, Dissolution and Winding-up
 
 
 
unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall have received $1.00 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment; that the holders of shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share equal to (x) the Multiplier Number times (y) the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of Common Stock, or (b) to the holders of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) with the Series R Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series R Preferred Stock and all such other parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding-up.
provided
 
Section 7.  .  If the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged for or changed into an amount per share equal to (x) the Multiplier Number (y) the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or any other property, as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged.
Consolidation, Merger, etc
times
 
Section 8.  .  The Series R Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
 
Section 9.  .  The Series R Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution and winding-up, unless the terms of such series shall specifically provide otherwise, and shall rank senior to the Common Stock as to such matters.
Rank
 
Section 10.  .  Series R Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holders fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series R Preferred Stock.
Fractional Shares
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations has been executed on behalf of the Corporation by its Treasurer and countersigned by an Assistant Secretary this 9th day of June, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


