FILE:C/C-8K-20090310061539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On March 9, 2009, Vikram Pandit, the Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup Inc. (""), distributed a letter to employees providing an update on Citi's position. A copy of the letter is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Citi
     The information in this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 of Item 9.01 is being furnished, not filed. Accordingly, the information in this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 of Item 9.01 will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Citi under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
     References to the Tier 1 ratios of Citi and other large U.S. banks are based on those large U.S. banks that calculate Tier 1 capital under Basel 1.
     The full quarterly average of 2008 revenues as adjusted to exclude externally disclosed marks is considered a "non-GAAP financial measure" under SEC guidelines. Citi believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides a greater understanding of ongoing operations and enhances comparability of those results in prior periods as well as demonstrating the effects of unusual gains and charges in the quarter. Citi believes that a meaningful analysis of its financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance. Citi believes that investors may find it useful to see this non-GAAP financial measure to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in Citi's underlying performance.
     GAAP revenues for 2008 can be found on page 4 of Citi's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the "") and total significant revenue items impacting Citi's Securities and Banking business for 2008 can be found on page 10 of the 10-K. The full quarterly average of 2008 revenues as adjusted is based on these amounts.
10-K
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
March 9, 2009
Dear Citi Colleagues,
After a broad sell off in the markets last week, I thought I would give you a quick update on our position.
Despite the steps we've taken to strengthen our capital base, I am, like you, disappointed with our current stock price and the broad-based misperceptions about our company and its financial position. I don't believe it reflects the strengths of Citi; our newly strengthened capital base, our unique global franchise and most importantly, the quality of our people. These are unprecedented times in the markets, but over time, the markets will recognize the many strengths of Citi.
I believe there are two key issues to focus oncapital strength and earnings power.
First, on capital strength, as you know, the preferred exchange we announced nearly two weeks ago is expected to make Citi the strongest capitalized large U.S. bank as measured by tangible common equity (TCE) and Tier 1 ratios. While our Tier 1 ratio will remain at 11.9% as of December 31, 2008, assuming 100% participation in the exchange, our TCE could increase to as much as $81 billion. Despite this addition of tangible common equity, some people continue to question our capital strength because of our net deferred tax asset (DTA) and the quality of our assets.
In addition to our strong capital position, I am most encouraged with the strength of our business so far in 2009. In January and February alone, our revenues excluding externally disclosed marks were $19 billion. Our client businesses are strong: our deposits are relatively stable, our client-driven Securities and Banking businesses have been performing well, including our recent #1 rank in M&A, and we continue to provide credit to consumer and corporate customers. You have all done a very impressive job driving revenues and reducing our cost structure, and it is gratifying to see the results first hand.
In fact, we are profitable through the first two months of 2009 and are having our best quarter-to-date performance since the third quarter of 2007.
I also appreciate how distracting the confusion in the markets and the media can be. In case you missed it, you should read the article in Friday's entitled "Citigroup's Troubles Don't Distract Its Investment Bankers" ]. It was great to see you get the recognition you deserve and how you have remained focused on your clients and customers.
Wall Street Journal Deal Journal
[http://blogs.wsj.com/deals/2009/03/06/citigroups-troubles-dont-distract-its-investment-bankers/
Lastly, I spent time last week talking to groups of colleagues and clients in Europe. It was good to hear from them. Not only did I learn a lot about what was on their minds, I was able to give them the full story of Citi and where we are today, including our full commitment to our global network and presence in over 100 countries, which is our key competitive differentiator. I would encourage each of you to continually engage with your colleagues and clients to ensure open lines of communication. To help in this effort, I have attached some important information points as an aid in your discussions. Please send me any feedback you may receive or any questions you are not able to answer.
Thank you again for your dedication. These are the times that will define us all.
Best regards,
Vikram
 
Important Information About Our Capital Strength and Earnings Power
     
Deferred Tax Asset (DTA)
     
Risk Assets
 
Profitability
Our Stock and Credit Spreads


