FILE:C/C-8K-20091214071508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On December 14, 2009, Citigroup announced it had reached an agreement with the U.S. government and its regulators to repay U.S. taxpayers for the $20 billion the government holds in TARP trust preferred securities and to terminate the loss-sharing agreement, entered into on January 15, 2009, with the U.S. government.
     A copy of the related press release and investor presentation are being filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K, and are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C) December 14, 2009
New York  Citi today announced that it has reached an agreement with the U.S. government and its regulators to repay U.S. taxpayers for the $20 billion the government holds in TARP trust preferred securities and to terminate the loss-sharing agreement with the government.
Vikram Pandit, Chief Executive Officer, said on behalf of the entire Citi Board of Directors, "The TARP program was designed to provide assistance until banks were in a position to repay it prudently. We are pleased to be able to repay the U.S. government's trust preferred securities and to terminate the loss-sharing agreement. We owe the American taxpayers a debt of gratitude and recognize our obligation to support the economic recovery through lending and assistance to homeowners and other borrowers in need."
The securities transactions planned to facilitate the repayment of the $20 billion in TARP trust preferred securities and the termination of the loss-sharing agreement are as follows:
Citi will immediately issue $20.5 billion of capital and debt, comprised of:
 
In connection with Citi's offering, the U.S. Treasury (UST) will sell up to $5 billion of the common stock it holds in a concurrent secondary offering. After the secondary offering, the UST is subject to a 45-day "lock-up" period. The Treasury has also announced that it plans to sell the remainder of its shares in an orderly fashion over the next 6-12 months.
In addition, Citi has decided to issue in January 2010 $1.7 billion of common stock equivalents to employees in lieu of cash they would have otherwise received. Subject to shareholder approval at the company's annual meeting on April 1, 2010, the common stock equivalents will be replaced by common stock.
As agreed with the U.S. government and its regulators, following the successful completion of the $17 billion common stock offering and the $3.5 billion offering of tangible equity units, Citi will repay $20 billion of TARP trust preferred securities. The repayment will result in an approximate $8 billion pre-tax loss ($5.1 billion after tax). Citi will also terminate the loss-sharing agreement with the government and cancel $1.8 billion of the $7.1 billion in trust preferred securities it originally issued to the government as consideration for the benefits provided by that agreement. This will result in an approximate pre-tax loss of $2.1 billion ($1.3 billion after tax). The termination of the loss-sharing agreement will increase Citi's risk-weighted assets by approximately $144 billion.
As a result of the repayment of the TARP trust preferred securities and the termination of the loss-sharing agreement, Citi expects a net reduction in annual interest expense of approximately $1.7 billion and approximately $0.5 billion in lower annual amortization expense associated with the loss-sharing agreement.
Once Citi repays the $20 billion of TARP trust preferred securities and upon termination of the loss-sharing agreement, it will no longer be deemed to be a beneficiary of "exceptional financial assistance" under TARP beginning in 2010.
After giving effect to the issuance of $17 billion in new common stock, $3.5 billion of tangible equity units and $1.7 billion of stock compensation, as well as the repayment of $20 billion of the TARP trust preferred securities and the termination of the loss-sharing agreement, Citi's pro forma Tier 1 capital ratio at the end of the third quarter of 2009 would have been 11.0%, compared with 12.8%. The company's pro forma Tier 1 common ratio at the end of the third quarter would have been 9.0%, compared with 9.1%. Citi has also indicated to its regulators that, in support of its capital strength, it may issue up to $3 billion of trust preferred securities in the first quarter of 2010.
"As I have stated many times over the past year, we planned to exit TARP only when we were convinced that it was prudent to do so,'' Pandit said. "By any measure of financial strength, Citi is among the strongest banks in the industry, and we are in a position to support the economic recovery."
 
During 2009, Citi has:
For further information on the details of the repayment, see
http://www.citigroup.com/citi/fin/data/p091214a.pdf
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 140 countries. Through Citicorp and Citi Holdings, Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com or .
www.citi.com
Citi has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the offerings to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in the registration statement and the other documents Citi has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Citi and these offerings. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. The file number for Citi's registration statement is No. 333-157459. Alternatively, you can request the prospectus by calling toll-free in the United States 1-877-858-5407.
Certain statements in this release, including without limitation the execution of the proposed transactions, the exiting of the loss-sharing agreement with the U.S. government, the U.S. government's sell-down of its remaining equity positions, the expected impact of these transactions on Citi's Tier 1 capital ratio and Tier 1 common capital ratio, and the financial and accounting input of the transactions, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including the actual completion of the proposed transactions and the final analysis of the financial, accounting and regulatory capital treatment of the transactions. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect Citi's future results, see Citi's periodic reports filed with the SEC and available on www.sec.gov or www.citigroup.com.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


