FILE:C/C-8K-20110404165432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     On April 4, 2011, Citigroup Inc. ("Citigroup") announced the expiration and results of a consent solicitation from the holders of its 6.00% Capital Securities (TPS) of Citigroup Capital XI and the termination of ten capital replacement covenants executed by Citigroup in connection with various securities offerings, effective April 1, 2011. A copy of the termination agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1, and a copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
ru
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1 EXECUTION COPY
     Termination of the Capital Replacement Covenants, dated as of April 1, 2011 (this "Termination"), by Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Citigroup"), and The Bank of New York Mellon, as institutional trustee (the "Institutional Trustee") under the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Citigroup Capital XI dated as of September 27, 2004.
WHEREAS, Citigroup executed ten capital replacement covenants dated June 30, 2006, September 15, 2006, November 22, 2006, March 6, 2007, June 28, 2007, August 15, 2007, November 27, 2007, December 21, 2007, January 23, 2008 and January 25, 2008 and listed on Annex A hereto (collectively, the "Capital Replacement Covenants") in connection with various securities offerings;
WHEREAS, the Capital Replacement Covenants were originally granted and are currently granted by Citigroup in favor of holders of its 6.00% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due September 27, 2034 (the "Covered Debentures") issued to Citigroup Capital XI in connection with its issuance of its 6.00% Capital Securities (TPS) (the "Covered Securities");
ru
WHEREAS, the Institutional Trustee is the current holder of all of the Covered Debentures for the benefit of the holders of the Covered Securities and may be directed by the holders of the Covered Securities to take certain actions related to the Covered Debentures;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of each Capital Replacement Covenant, the Capital Replacement Covenant may be terminated if the holders of a majority by principal amount of the then-effective Covered Debt (as defined in the Capital Replacement Covenant) consent or agree in writing to the termination of the Capital Replacement Covenant and the obligations of Citigroup thereunder;
WHEREAS, Citigroup has solicited instructions to consent ("Consent Solicitation") from the holders of the Covered Securities of record at 5:00 p.m. New York City time, on March 7, 2011 to the proposed termination of the Capital Replacement Covenants;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Consent Solicitation, as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on April 1, 2011, the expiration time for the Consent Solicitation, holders of a majority in aggregate liquidation amount of the Covered Securities agreed in writing to direct the Institutional Trustee to take such actions and execute and deliver such documentation as may be necessary or desirable to effect the termination of all of the Capital Replacement Covenants;
WHEREAS, the Institutional Trustee hereby consents and agrees to terminate all of the Capital Replacement Covenants, as directed by the holders of a majority in aggregate liquidation amount of the Covered Securities pursuant to the Consent Solicitation; and
WHEREAS, Citigroup desires to terminate all of the Capital Replacement Covenants pursuant to their terms as set forth below, effective April 1, 2011.
     NOW, THEREFORE, Citigroup and the Institutional Trustee hereby agree to terminate the Capital Replacement Covenants as follows:
     SECTION 1. Termination. The Capital Replacement Covenants are hereby terminated in their entirety, effective April 1, 2011 (the "Termination Date"). From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of Citigroup pursuant to the Capital Replacement Covenants shall be of no further force and effect.
     SECTION 2. Miscellaneous. This Termination shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Citigroup and the Institutional Trustee have caused this Termination to be executed by their duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C) April 4, 2011
 Citigroup Inc. ("Citigroup") today announced the expiration and results of a consent solicitation (the "Consent Solicitation") from holders of record at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on March 7, 2011 (the "Holders") of the 6.00% Capital Securities (TPS) of Citigroup Capital XI (the "Covered Securities") to terminate each of ten capital replacement covenants (collectively, the "Capital Replacement Covenants") executed by Citigroup in connection with various securities offerings. The termination of the Capital Replacement Covenants requires, among other conditions, the instruction to consent (the "Consent") of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate liquidation amount of the Covered Securities outstanding (the "Requisite Consents").
NEW YORK
ru
The Consent Solicitation expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, April 1, 2011 (the "Expiration Time"). As of the Expiration Time, Citigroup had received valid Consents from the Holders of 53.61% of the aggregate liquidation amount of Covered Securities outstanding. Accordingly, the Requisite Consents have been obtained and Citigroup has terminated the Capital Replacement Covenants pursuant to their terms, effective April 1, 2011.
Citigroup accepted all Consents validly delivered prior to the Expiration Time. Any Holder who validly delivered a Consent prior to the Expiration Time will receive a consent fee of 2.00% of the liquidation amount of the Covered Securities as to which such Consent was validly delivered.
Citigroup will pay the relevant soliciting dealer a fee of 1.50% of the liquidation amount of the Covered Securities as to which a Consent was validly delivered, provided that such fee will only be paid with respect to Consents by a beneficial owner of Covered Securities having an aggregate liquidation amount of $250,000 or less.
Citi
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. Through Citicorp and Citi Holdings, Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management.


