FILE:C/C-8K-20110218140130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 (e).   Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 14, 2011, the Personnel and Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of Citigroup Inc. (Citi) approved grants of awards under the 2011 Key Employee Profit Sharing Plan (the KEPSP) to John Gerspach, Citis Chief Financial Officer; John Havens, President and Chief Operating Officer of Citi and CEO, Institutional Clients Group; Manuel Medina-Mora, CEO, Consumer Banking for the Americas, Chairman of the Global Consumer Council and Chairman and CEO of Latin America and Mexico; and Alberto Verme, CEO of EMEA, and other executives.
The Committee made the awards in furtherance of the goal of preserving and incenting Citigroups key executive team. As discussed below, the value, if any, that the executives realize with the respect to the awards will depend on Citis performance over a forward-looking multi-year period. As such, the awards are intended to sharpen the executives focus on the long-term performance of Citi in a manner that appropriately balances incentives and risk, thereby aligning the executives interests with those of Citis stockholders and other stakeholders.
The KEPSP awards provide the executives with the opportunity to receive payments based on specified percentages of the cumulative pre-tax income of Citicorp for 2011 and 2012. Cumulative pre-tax income is defined as the income (loss) from continuing operations before taxes of Citigroup Inc. minus the income (loss) from continuing operations before taxes of Citi Holdings. The executives will not be entitled to any payments unless cumulative pre-tax income for this period is at least $12 billion. The following table sets forth the percentage of cumulative pre-tax income for each executive and the amount that each would receive if threshold performance is attained (there is no target performance goal under the terms of the KEPSP):
Under the general terms of the KEPSP, the initial two-thirds of each amount will be payable on January 20, 2013 and the remaining one-third of each amount (the holdback payment) will be payable on January 20, 2014. The holdback payment will be reduced by the amount of any pre-tax losses for 2013 and will also be credited for 2013 with notional interest equal to the 90-day, U.S. dollar-based London Interbank Offered Rate (90-day LIBOR). Both the initial payment and holdback payment generally will be paid in cash.
Each payment is subject to specified conditions, including but not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
These amounts are subject to accelerated vesting and payment on the executives death, disability or qualifying termination or the occurrence of a qualifying transaction with respect to the executives Citi employer (as such terms are defined below), and accelerated vesting on the executives retirement. To receive payments following retirement, the executive must comply with specified restrictions against competition and solicitation. None of the executives currently is eligible for retirement under KEPSP terms.
A qualifying termination means the termination of the executives employment in connection with a sale or other disposition of assets of the business unit to which the executive provides substantial services or the outsourcing of the executives job. The executives Citi employer undergoes a qualifying transaction if, in connection with the sale or other disposition of the stock or other equity interest in the employer, Citi ceases to control or own a significant equity interest in the employer.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


