FILE:C/C-8K-20110112094610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 3.03.  Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
On January 11, 2011, Citigroup Inc., its wholly owned subsidiary CitiFinancial Credit Company, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, entered into a Fifth Supplemental Indenture (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture, dated as of December 1, 1986, among CitiFinancial Credit Company (formerly Commercial Credit Company), Citigroup, as guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (as amended and supplemented, the "Indenture").  As previously announced, Citigroup solicited consents to amend the Indenture and, as of January 7, 2011, had received consents from holders of $173,260,000 in aggregate principal amount of CitiFinancial Credit Company's 6.625% Notes due 2015 issued under the Indenture (the "6.625% Notes"), which represents approximately 90% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 6.625% Notes.
The Fifth Supplemental Indenture eliminates Section 801 of the Indenture solely with respect to the 6.625% Notes.  Section 801 of the Indenture requires that any successor to CitiFinancial Credit Company by merger, consolidation or disposition of all or substantially all of CitiFinancial Credit Company's assets (1) be a United States person and assume all of the obligations of CitiFinancial Credit Company under the Indenture and (2) upon succession not be in default of any terms of the Indenture.  As such, the obligations of CitiFinancial vis--vis the holders of the 6.625% Notes would be unaffected by any such transaction.  The amendments contained in the Fifth Supplemental Indenture become operative upon payment of the consent payment to the holders of the 6.625% Notes that have delivered their consents, which is expected to occur on or about January 27, 2011.  The Fifth Supplemental Indenture is binding on all holders of the 6.625% Notes.
The foregoing description of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 11, 2011 (this ), among CitiFinancial Credit Company (formerly Commercial Credit Company), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (), Citigroup Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (), as guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the );
Fifth Supplemental Indenture
CCC
Citigroup
Trustee
 
 
WHEREAS, CCC has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee (i) an indenture dated as of December 1, 1986 (the Original Indenture), providing for the issuance by CCC from time to time of its senior debt securities, (ii) a first supplemental indenture to the Original Indenture dated as of June 13, 1990 (the ), (iii) a second supplemental indenture to the Original Indenture dated as of August 2, 1999 (the ), (iv) a third supplemental indenture to the Original Indenture dated as of October 18, 1999 (the ) and (v) a fourth supplemental indenture to the Original Indenture dated as of August 1, 2005 (the ; the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, is hereafter referred to as the );
First Supplemental Indenture
Second Supplemental Indenture
Third Supplemental Indenture
Fourth Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
 
WHEREAS, of the Indenture provides that CCC and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of at least 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 6.625% Notes (as defined below), when authorized by a Board Resolution of CCC, may amend or supplement the Indenture;
Section 902
 
WHEREAS, in connection with an offer (the ) to certain Holders of any and all of CCCs outstanding 6.625% Notes due 2015 (the ), in exchange for a specified principal amount of Citigroups 4.75% Notes due 2015 (the ), as described in an Offering Memorandum, dated as of December 24, 2010 (the ), and a solicitation of consents (the ) of specified Holders of the 6.625% Notes, as described in a Consent Solicitation Statement, dated as of December 24, 2010 (the ), Citigroup and CitiFinancial Credit Company have solicited the consents of Holders of the 6.625% Notes to certain proposed amendments to the Indenture as described in the Offering Memorandum and Consent Solicitation Statement (the );
Exchange Offer
6.625% Notes
New Citigroup Notes
Offering Memorandum
Consent Solicitation
Consent Solicitation Statement
Proposed Amendments
 
 
 
WHEREAS, Holders of at least 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 6.625% Notes have provided their valid consent, in writing, to the Proposed Amendments, and all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture relating to the execution of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture have been complied with;
 
WHEREAS, CCC and Citigroup, pursuant to the foregoing authority, propose in and by this Fifth Supplemental Indenture to amend the Indenture and have requested that the Trustee join in the execution of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture; and
 
WHEREAS, all acts and requirements necessary to make this Fifth Supplemental Indenture the legal, valid and binding obligation of CCC and Citigroup have been done.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, CCC, Citigroup and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the 6.625% Notes as follows:
 
 
 
SECTION 1.1  . As used in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture, terms defined in the Indenture or in the preamble or recital hereto are used herein as therein defined. The words herein, hereof and hereby and other words of similar import used in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture refer to this Fifth Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular section hereof.
Defined Terms
 
 
 
SECTION 2.1  Effective as of the Amendment Effective Date (as defined below):
 
(a) Section 801 of the Indenture shall be deleted solely with respect to the 6.625% Notes and any corresponding provision in the 6.625% Notes shall be deemed to be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the phrase Intentionally Omitted.
 
(b) Any definitions used exclusively in Section 801 of the Indenture shall be deleted in their entirety from the Indenture solely with respect to the 6.625% Notes and from the 6.625% Notes, and all references to Section 801 shall be deleted in their entirety from the Indenture solely with respect to the 6.625% Notes and from the 6.625% Notes.  Any provision contained in the 6.625% Notes that relates to any provision of the Indenture as amended shall likewise be amended so that any such provision contained in the 6.625% Notes will conform to and be consistent with any provision of the Indenture as amended.
 
 
 
SECTION 2.2  From and as of the Amendment Effective Date, no default related to Section 801 shall constitute an Event of Default solely with respect to the 6.625% Notes.
 
 
 
SECTION 3.1  .  This Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall become effective upon execution by CCC, Citigroup, and the Trustee.  As used herein, the  shall mean the date that CCC delivers written notice to the Trustee that consents have been received from Holders of at least 66 2/3% of the then outstanding aggregate principal amount of 6.625% Notes and the consent payment described in the Offering Memorandum and the Consent Solicitation Statement has been paid.
Effectiveness
Amendment Effective Date
 
 
SECTION 3.2  .  All notices and other communications to each party hereto shall be given as provided in the Indenture.
Notices
 
SECTION 3.3  .  Nothing expressed or mentioned herein is intended or shall be construed to give any Person, firm or corporation, other than the Holders and the Trustee, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture or any provision herein or therein contained.
Parties
 
SECTION 3.4  .  This Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
SECTION 3.5  .  In case any provision in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability Clause
 
 
 
SECTION 3.6  .  Except as expressly amended hereby, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every Holder of 6.625% Notes heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered shall be bound hereby. The Trustee makes no representation or warranty as to the validity or sufficiency of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture.
Ratification of Indenture; Supplemental Indenture is Part of Indenture
 
SECTION 3.7  .  The parties hereto may sign one or more copies of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
SECTION 3.8  .  The headings of the Articles and the sections in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture and shall not be deemed to alter or affect the meaning or interpretation of any provisions hereof.
Headings
 
SECTION 3.9  .  The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture.  The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of CCC and Citigroup and not of the Trustee.  The Trustee shall not be responsible or liable for special, indirect or consequential loss or damage of any kind (including, but not limited to, loss of profit).
Trustee
 
SECTION 3.10  .  In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Force Majeure
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fifth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and made effective as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


