FILE:C/C-8K-20120209182050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
February 9, 2012
 
Citigroup Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
(212) 559-1000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
CITIGROUP INC.
Current Report on Form 8-K
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On February 9, 2012, Citigroup Inc. (Citi) announced that CitiMortgage, along with other major mortgage servicers, has reached an agreement in principle with the United States and with the Attorneys General for 49 states and the District of Columbia to settle a number of related investigations into residential loan servicing and origination practices (the Settlement). Citis monetary portion of the Settlement is payable in three parts, as described below, for a total amount of $2.2 billion. The Settlement also involves certain additional servicing standards and legal releases covering certain categories of claims.
 
As referenced above, the announcement today reflects an agreement in principle only. Accordingly, the final terms and provisions of the agreement are subject to further documentation and Citis Board of Directors approval as well as final court approval.
 
Monetary Component
 
The monetary component of the Settlement is to be paid in three parts: a payment in cash upon final court approval; customer relief payments; and refinancing concessions.
Citi expects that existing reserves will be sufficient to cover customer relief payments and all but a small portion of the cash payment called for under this Settlement. However, Citi will adjust its fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results to reflect an additional $84 million (after tax) charge. The impact of the refinancing concessions will be recognized over a period of years in the form of lower interest income.
 
In addition, Citi will adjust its fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results to reflect an additional $125 million (after tax) charge in connection with the resolution of related mortgage litigation. Each of the after tax charges noted above reflects subsequent events since year end resulting in additional charges above previous estimates.
 
The table below sets forth Citis summary financial results for the full year 2011, as reported on January 17, 2012 and as adjusted.
*Tangible book value per common share is a non-GAAP financial measure. Please see the table below.
Servicing Standards
 
The Settlement also provides for additional servicing standards. While Citi expects to incur additional operating expenses in connection with these standards, it does not currently expect that the impact of these expenses will be material.
 
Legal Releases
 
Citi is receiving releases in connection with the Settlement, which will include many servicing and origination issues, but will not include those arising from securitizations, criminal claims, whole loan sales, and certain other specific exceptions which will be detailed as part of the final Settlement agreements.
 
A copy of Citis related press release, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K, is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and shall be deemed to be filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Tangible book value per share is a non-GAAP financial measure. A reconciliation of Citigroups total stockholders equity to tangible book value per share is as follows:
 
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

 
 
For Immediate Release
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C)
February 9, 2012
 
Citigroup Statement on Agreement in Principle on Residential
Loan Servicing and Origination Practices
 
New York  Citigroup Inc. today issued the following statement on the agreement in principle on residential loan servicing and origination practices:
 
CitiMortgage, along with other major mortgage servicers, has reached an agreement in principle with the United States and with the Attorneys General for 49 states and the District of Columbia to settle a number of related investigations into residential loan servicing and origination practices. The monetary component of Citis portion of the settlement amount is to be paid in three parts: a payment in cash upon final settlement; customer relief payments; and refinancing concessions, for a total value of approximately $2.2 billion.
 
Citi expects that existing reserves will be sufficient to cover customer relief payments and all but a small portion of the cash payment called for under this settlement. Citi will adjust its fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results to reflect an additional $84 million (after tax) charge. The impact of the refinancing concessions will be recognized over a period of years in the form of lower interest income.
 
In addition, Citi will adjust its fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results to reflect an additional $125 million (after tax) charge in connection with the resolution of related mortgage litigation. Each of the after tax charges noted above reflects subsequent events since year end resulting in additional charges above previous estimates.
 
The announcement today reflects an agreement in principle only. Accordingly, the final terms and provisions of the agreement are subject to further documentation and approval of Citis Board of Directors as well as final court approval.
 
Since the housing crisis began, Citi has worked hard to help families avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes. Further, as the volume of foreclosures increased in 2009, Citi self-identified opportunities to improve its foreclosure processes and proactively undertook actions to enhance its policies and controls. These included: consolidating operations into one central unit; significantly reinforcing the size and training of our staff; and tightening control processes.
 
Implementation of the settlements programs is expected to begin in March 2012. For CitiMortgage clients needing more information, please visit www.citimortgage.com.
 
# # #
 
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management.
 
Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com | Twitter: @Citi | YouTube: www.youtube.com/citi | Blog: http://new.citi.com | Facebook: www.facebook.com/citi | LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/citi
 
Certain statements in this release, including without limitation successful final negotiations relating to the agreement and approval of such final agreements by various parties, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results and capital and other financial condition may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including the precautionary statements included in this document and those contained in Citigroups filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including without limitation the Risk Factors section of Citigroups 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
 
 


