FILE:C/C-8K-20120913124323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
September 13, 2012
 
Citigroup Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
  
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITIGROUP INC. Current Report on Form 8-K
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Citigroup Inc. (the ) and Citigroup Funding Inc. have filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-172554 and 333-172554-01) (the ) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, registering, among other securities, Medium-Term Notes, Series D (the ) of Citigroup Funding Inc. and the guarantees thereof by the Registrant that may be offered from time to time. A consent with respect to references to the opinion of Martha D. Bailey, Associate General CounselCapital Markets and Corporate Reporting of Citigroup Inc. and counsel to Citigroup Funding Inc., in pricing supplements relating to the Notes is being filed as an exhibit to this report in order to incorporate such consent into the Registration Statement.
Registrant
Registration Statement
Notes
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
399 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10043
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Citigroup Funding Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), and Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ) a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-172554, 333-172554-01) (the ) for the purpose of registering under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), among other securities, debt securities of the Company and guarantees thereof by the Guarantor. Such securities include, among other securities, the Companys Medium-Term Senior Notes, Series D (the ), to be issued from time to time pursuant to the senior debt indenture dated as of June 1, 2005 (the ), among the Company, the Guarantor and The Bank of New York Mellon, as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the ), and the guarantee of the Notes by the Guarantor (the ).
Company
Guarantor
Commission
Registration Statement
Securities Act
Notes
Indenture
Trustee
Guarantee
 
If a pricing supplement relating to the offer and sale of any particular Note or Notes is prepared and filed by the Company with the Commission on this date or a future date and the pricing supplement contains a reference to me and my opinion substantially in the form set forth below, I consent to the reference to me and my opinion in substantially such form:
 
In the opinion of Martha D. Bailey, Associate General CounselCapital Markets and Corporate Reporting of Citigroup Inc. and counsel to Citigroup Funding Inc., (i) the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) of Citigroup Funding Inc. has duly established the terms of the notes offered by this pricing supplement and duly authorized the issuance and sale of such notes and such authorization has not been modified or rescinded; (ii) each of Citigroup Funding Inc. and Citigroup Inc. is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware; (iii) the indenture dated as of June 1, 2005, among Citigroup Funding Inc., as issuer, Citigroup Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., has been duly authorized, executed, and delivered by Citigroup Funding Inc. and Citigroup Inc.; and (iv) the execution and delivery of such indenture by Citigroup Funding Inc. and Citigroup Inc. and of the notes offered by this pricing supplement by Citigroup Funding Inc., and the performance by each such party of its obligations thereunder, are within its corporate powers and do not contravene its certificate of incorporation or bylaws or other constitutive documents. This opinion is given as of the date of this pricing supplement and is limited to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
Martha D. Bailey, or other internal attorneys with whom she has consulted, has examined and is familiar with originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to her satisfaction, of such corporate records of Citigroup Funding Inc. and Citigroup Inc., certificates or documents as she has deemed appropriate as a basis for the opinions expressed above. In such examination, she or such persons has assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures (other than those of officers of Citigroup Funding Inc. or Citigroup Inc.), the authenticity of all documents submitted to her or such persons as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to her or such persons as certified or photostatic copies and the authenticity of the originals of such copies.
 
In giving this consent, I do not admit that I am in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 
Very truly yours,
 
 
/s/ Martha D. Bailey
 
 


