FILE:C/C-8K-20120302170506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
March 2, 2012
 
Citigroup Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10022
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
(212) 559-1000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
   
Citigroup Inc.
Current Report on Form 8-K
 
 
(b) On March 2, 2012, Richard D. Parsons, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Citigroup (the Board), and Timothy C. Collins and Alain J.P. Belda, members of the Board, provided notice to the General Counsel and Corporate Secretary that they will not stand for re-election to the Board at Citigroups next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, scheduled for April 17, 2012. The Board, consistent with its pre-existing succession planning, intends to select Michael E. ONeill to succeed Mr. Parsons as Chairman following the stockholder meeting.
 
A copy of the press release announcing these events is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
  
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
For Immediate Release
Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C)
March 2, 2012
Citi Chairman Richard D. Parsons to Leave Board of Directors
 
NEW YORK - Citi today announced that Richard D. Parsons will not seek re-election to the Board of Directors at the upcoming Annual Meeting of Stockholders in April. Mr. Parsons, who will remain Chairman through the annual meeting, has been Chairman of the Board since 2009 and a Board member since 1996. The Board, consistent with its pre-existing succession planning, intends to select Michael E. ONeill to succeed Mr. Parsons as Chairman following the stockholder meeting. In addition to Mr. Parsons, Alain J.P. Belda, a Board member since 1997, and Timothy C. Collins, a Board member since 2009, will not seek re-election to the Board.
 
Mr. Parsons said, Under Vikram Pandits leadership, Citi has made remarkable progress. It has emerged from the financial crisis a well-capitalized institution with a clear strategy, sound risk management and a solid, competitive position in global markets. In addition, new members now make up the majority of the Board, including some of the most talented and experienced leaders in the financial industry.
 
Citi still faces a challenging environment, as do all the large banks, but the crisis is behind us. Given the strong position that Citi is in today, I have concluded that the time has come for me to take my leave. Together with the rest of the Board of Directors, I have complete confidence in the management team, the actions they have taken to strengthen Citi, and the course they have charted for the future of one of the worlds truly great financial institutions. Moreover, in Mike ONeill, the Board will have the perfect leader to enable it to continue providing the oversight and guidance Americas global bank deserves, Mr. Parsons concluded.
 
Vikram Pandit, CEO of Citi, said: It has been a great pleasure to work with Dick since I joined Citi in 2007. He has been a terrific partner as we embarked on transforming Citi and returning to our core capabilities of providing banking services to our clients around the world, and it was under his stewardship of the Board that Citi was able to return to a position of strength among its peers. I will miss his guidance, expertise and perspective. As we commemorate our 200 anniversary, I look forward to working with the Board as we continue our focus on supporting economic progress and connecting the world for our clients.
th
 
I want to thank Alain Belda for his leadership and for his invaluable guidance throughout his years of service to the Board and to Citi. Id also like to thank Tim Collins for his significant contributions to the Board during one of the most critical periods in our companys history, Mr. Pandit concluded.
 
 
 
Previously, Mr. Parsons served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dime Bancorp, Inc., where he successfully worked with government regulators to enable the bank to continue as a private sector enterprise. He also previously served in the positions of President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman at Time Warner, where he led the companys turnaround after its merger with America Online in 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Parsons was managing partner of the New York law firm Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler, and held various positions in state and federal government, including as counsel for New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller and senior White House aide under President Gerald Ford.
 
###
Citi, the leading global bank, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management.
 
Additional information may be found at | Twitter: @Citi | YouTube: | Blog: | Facebook: | LinkedIn:
www.citigroup.com
www.youtube.com/citi
http://new.citi.com
www.facebook.com/citi
www.linkedin.com/company/citi
 


