FILE:C/C-8K-20121126121153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
November 26, 2012
 
Citigroup Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
CITIGROUP INC. Current Report on Form 8-K
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Citigroup Inc. (the ) and Citigroup Funding Inc. have filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-172554 and 333-172554-01) (the ) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, registering, among other securities, Medium-Term Notes, Series D (the ) of Citigroup Funding Inc. and the guarantees thereof by the Registrant that may be offered from time to time. Exhibits are filed herewith and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement in connection with the issuance by Citigroup Funding Inc. of $3,767,000 aggregate principal amount of Strategic Market Access Notes Based Upon a Basket of Energy-Related Master Limited Partnerships Due November 25, 2014, and the related guarantee by the Registrant, pursuant to the Registration Statement.
Registrant
Registration Statement
Notes
 
(d)   Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
November 26, 2012
 
Citigroup Funding Inc. Citigroup Inc. 399 Park Avenue New York, NY 10043
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as special products counsel to Citigroup Funding Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), and Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), in connection with the offering pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-172554) of $3,767,000 aggregate principal amount of the Companys Strategic Market Access Notes Based Upon a Basket of Energy-Related Master Limited Partnerships Due November 25, 2014 (the ) to be issued under an indenture dated as of June 1, 2005 (as amended, the Indenture), among the Company, the Guarantor and The Bank of New York Mellon, as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The Companys obligations under the Securities are guaranteed by the Guarantor pursuant to the terms of the Indenture (the ). Such registration statement, as amended as of its most recent effective date (November 20, 2012), insofar as it relates to the Securities and the Guarantee (as determined pursuant to Rule 430B(f)(2) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act)), but excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein and Exhibit 25.1, is herein called the .
Company
Guarantor
Securities
Guarantee
Registration Statement
 
We have reviewed the Registration Statement, including the Indenture, which is incorporated by reference therein, and we have reviewed the global note representing the Securities. In addition, we have reviewed the originals or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction of all such corporate records of the Company and the Guarantor and such other instruments and other certificates of public officials, officers and representatives of the Company and the Guarantor and such other persons, and we have made such investigations of law, as we have deemed appropriate as a basis for the opinion expressed below.
 
 
 
 
  
 
Citigroup Funding Inc.
Citigroup Inc., p. 2
 
In rendering the opinions expressed below, we have assumed the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to the originals of all documents submitted to us as copies. In addition, we have assumed and have not verified the accuracy as to factual matters of each document we have reviewed.
 
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the further assumptions and qualifications set forth below, it is our opinion that:
 
 
Insofar as the foregoing opinions relate to the validity, binding effect or enforceability of any agreement or obligation of the Company or the Guarantor, (a) we have assumed that the Company, the Guarantor and each other party to such agreement or obligation has satisfied those legal requirements that are applicable to it to the extent necessary to make such agreement or obligation enforceable against it (except that no such assumption is made as to the Company or the Guarantor regarding matters of the law of the State of New York or the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware that in our experience normally would be applicable to general business entities with respect to such agreement or obligation) and (b) such opinion is subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors rights generally and to general principles of equity.
 
With respect to our opinion expressed in paragraph 2, the waiver of defenses contained in Section 15.01 of the Indenture may be ineffective to the extent that such defense involves a matter of public policy in the State of New York.
 
The foregoing opinions are limited to the law of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference of this opinion in the Registration Statement and to the reference to this firm in the pricing supplement related to the Securities dated November 20, 2012 under the heading Validity of the Notes as counsel for the Company and the Guarantor who have passed on the validity of the Securities and the Guarantee being registered by the Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.
 
 
 

 
 
 
November 26, 2012
 
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
 
We have acted as special tax counsel to you in connection with the issuance and sale of $3,767,000 aggregate principal amount of your Strategic Market Access Notes Based Upon a Basket of Energy-Related Master Limited Partnerships Due November 25, 2014 (the ), as described in the pricing supplement dated November 20, 2012 (the ), to the prospectus supplement dated May 12, 2011 and the prospectus dated May 12, 2011, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ) pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), and included in the registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-172554) (the ).
Notes
Pricing Supplement
Commission
Act
Registration Statement
 
We hereby confirm to you that the disclosure set forth under the heading Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations in the Prospectus Supplement represents our opinion as to certain U.S. federal income tax consequences material to the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Notes, subject to the limitations set forth thereunder.
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as an exhibit to your Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed on the date hereof in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, and to the reference to us under the heading Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations in the Prospectus Supplement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit
 
 
 
 
 
 
Citigroup Funding Inc., p. 2
 
 
that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
 
 


