FILE:C/C-8K-20120420161818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
___________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
April 17, 2012
 
Citigroup Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
(212) 559-1000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  
 
CITIGROUP INC.
Current Report on Form 8-K
 
Item 5.02(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On April 17, 2012, the stockholders of Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup), upon recommendation of the Board of Directors, approved an amendment to the Citigroup 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2009 Plan), which was first approved by stockholders on April 21, 2009. This amendment to the 2009 Plan added 40 million shares of Citigroup common stock, par value $.01 per share, to the total number of such shares that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2009 Plan.
 
No award previously made to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, nor any named executive officer of Citigroup under the 2009 Plan, nor under any other compensatory plan, contract or arrangement covering any such person, will be affected by the amendment to the 2009 Plan approved by stockholders on April 17, 2012.
 
The amendment to the 2009 Plan is described in greater detail in proposal 3 in Citigroups Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (Proxy Statement). The Proxy Statement, which also includes a summary description of the 2009 Plan, as proposed to be amended, was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2012. The descriptions of the 2009 Plan contained herein and in the Proxy Statement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the 2009 Plan (as amended and restated effective April 17, 2012).
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
Citigroup's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on April 17, 2012. At the meeting:
 
(1) 12 persons were elected to serve as directors of Citigroup;
 
(2) the selection of KPMG LLP to serve as the independent registered public accounting firm of Citigroup for 2012 was ratified;
 
(3) a proposal to approve an amendment to the Citigroup 2009 Stock Incentive Plan was approved;
 
(4) a proposal for advisory approval of Citigroups 2011 executive compensation was not approved;
 
(5) a stockholder proposal requesting a report of prior governmental service of certain individuals was defeated;
 
(6) a stockholder proposal requesting a report on lobbying and political contributions was defeated;
 
(7) a stockholder proposal requesting that executives retain 25% of their stock for one year following termination was defeated; and
 
(8) a stockholder proposal requesting that the Audit Committee conduct an independent review and report on controls related to loans, foreclosures and securitizations was defeated.
 
 
Set forth below, with respect to each such matter, are the number of votes cast for or against, the number of abstentions and the number of broker non-votes.
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
_____________________
*Filed herewith
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
CITIGROUP
 
2009 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
(as amended and restated effective April 17, 2012)
 
 
The purposes of the Citigroup 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) are to (i) align Employees long-term financial interests with those of the Companys stockholders; (ii) attract and retain Employees by providing compensation opportunities that are competitive with other companies; and (iii) provide incentives to those Employees who contribute significantly to the long-term performance and growth of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
 
The Plan became effective upon approval by the stockholders of the Company on April 21, 2009. The Plan was subsequently amended and restated upon approval by stockholders of the Company on April 20, 2010, by the Committee on February 9, 2011, and upon approval by stockholders of the Company on April 21, 2011; the Plan was further amended by the Committee on December 21, 2011, and amended and restated upon approval by stockholders of the Company on April 17, 2012. Except as provided otherwise below, all share numbers in this restated and amended Plan text have been adjusted to reflect the 1-for-10 reverse stock split of the Common Stock that was effective May 6, 2011.
 
 
shall mean an Option, SAR or other form of Stock Award granted under the Plan.
Award
 
shall mean the paper or electronic document evidencing an Award granted under the Plan.
Award Agreement
 
shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.
Change of Control
 
shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Code
 
shall mean the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board, the members of which shall satisfy the requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the 1934 Act and who shall also qualify, and remain qualified, as outside directors, as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code.
Committee
 
shall mean the common stock of the Company, par value $.01 per share.
Common Stock
 
shall mean Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
 
shall mean covered employee as such term is defined in Section 162(m) of the Code.
Covered Employee
 
shall mean an Award payable in shares of Common Stock at the end of a specified deferral period that is subject to the terms, conditions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(c)(iv) and Section 7(d).
Deferred Stock
 
shall have the meaning set forth in General Instruction A to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor form or statute, as determined by the Committee.
Employee
 
shall mean, in the case of a grant of an Option or a SAR, the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange, or on any national securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are then listed, on the trading date immediately preceding the date on which the Option or the SAR was granted, or on the date on which the Option or a SAR was granted, in the case of a grant to a Section 16(a) Officer (as defined).
Fair Market Value
 
shall mean an incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Code.
ISO
 
shall mean an Option that is granted to a Participant that is not designated as an ISO.
Nonqualified Stock Option
 
shall mean the right to purchase a specified number of shares of Common Stock at a stated exercise price for a specified period of time subject to the terms, conditions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(a) and Section 7(d). The term Option as used in this Plan includes the terms Nonqualified Stock Option and ISO.
Option
 
shall mean an Employee who has been granted an Award under the Plan.
Participant
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.
Plan Administrator
 
shall mean the Citigroup 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, the Citicorp 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, the Travelers Group Capital Accumulation Plan, and the Citigroup Employee Incentive Plan (formerly the Travelers Group Employee Incentive Plan).
Prior Plans
 
shall mean an Award of Common Stock that is subject to the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(c)(iii) and Section 7(d).
Restricted Stock
 
shall mean a stock appreciation right that is subject to the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(b) and Section 7(d).
SAR
 
shall mean an Employee who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act.
Section 16(a) Officer
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.409A-1(h) of the Treasury Regulations.
Separation from Service
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 409A of the Code.
Specified Employee
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(c)(i).
Stock Award
 
shall mean a stock payment that is subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(c)(ii) and Section 7(d).
Stock Payment
 
shall mean a stock unit that is subject to the terms, conditions and limitations described or referred to in Section 7(c)(v) and Section 7(d).
Stock Unit
 
shall mean any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company or any entity, including an acquired entity, in which the Company has a significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, provided that with respect to any Award that is subject to Section 409A of the Code,  shall mean
Subsidiary
Subsidiary
a corporation or other entity in a chain of corporations or other entities in which each corporation or other entity, starting with the Company, has a controlling interest in another corporation or other entity in the chain, ending with such corporation or other entity. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term controlling interest has the same meaning as provided in Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) of the Treasury Regulations, provided that the language at least 50 percent is used instead of at least 80 percent each place it appears in Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) of the Treasury Regulations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for the purpose of determining whether a corporation or other entity is a Subsidiary for purposes of Section 5(a) hereof, if the Awards proposed to be granted to Employees of such corporation or other entity would be granted based upon legitimate business criteria, the term controlling interest has the same meaning as provided in Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) of the Treasury Regulations, provided that the language at least 20 percent is used instead of at least 80 percent each place it appears in Code Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i). For purposes of determining ownership of an interest in an organization, the rules of Sections 1.414(c)-3 and 1.414(c)-4 of the Treasury Regulations apply.
 
shall mean the regulations promulgated under the Code by the United States Internal Revenue Service, as amended.
Treasury Regulations
 
shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and any successor thereto.
1934 Act
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Awards under the Plan may be granted as Options, SARs or Stock Awards, as described below. Awards may be granted singly, in combination or in tandem as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except where prohibited by applicable law, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement that, in any instance where the rights of a Participant with respect to an Award extend past the date of termination of a Participants employment, all or some of such rights shall terminate and be forfeited or modified upon the occurrence or non-occurrence of any specified condition or event, including, but not limited to, the Participant, at any time subsequent to his or her termination of employment engaging, directly or indirectly, either personally or as an employee, agent, partner, stockholder, officer or director of, or consultant to, any entity or person engaged in any business in which the Company or its affiliates is engaged, in conduct that breaches any obligation or duty of such Participant to the Company or a Subsidiary or that is in material competition with the Company or a Subsidiary or is materially injurious to the Company or a Subsidiary, monetarily or otherwise, which conduct shall include, but not be limited to, (i) disclosing or misusing any confidential information pertaining to the Company or a Subsidiary; (ii) any attempt, directly or indirectly, to induce any employee, agent, insurance agent, insurance broker or broker-dealer of the Company or any Subsidiary to be employed or perform services elsewhere; (iii) any attempt by a Participant, directly or indirectly, to solicit the trade of any customer or supplier or prospective customer or
 
supplier of the Company or any Subsidiary; or (iv) disparaging the Company, any Subsidiary or any of their respective officers or directors. The Committee shall have sole discretion to make the determination of whether any conduct, action or failure to act, or occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event or condition has triggered the application of any provision included in an Award Agreement as contemplated by this Section 8. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless specified otherwise in the applicable Award Agreement, a Participant shall not be deemed to be a stockholder of a competing entity if the Participants record and beneficial ownership amount to not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding capital stock of any company subject to the periodic and other reporting requirements of the 1934 Act. This Section 8 shall not be construed to in any way limit the applicability of Section 21(d) to any Award.
  
 
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide that Stock Awards shall earn dividends or dividend equivalents. Such dividends or dividend equivalents may be paid currently or may be credited to an account maintained on the books of the Company. Any payment or crediting of dividends or dividend equivalents will be subject to such terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations as the Committee may establish, from time to time, in its sole discretion, including, without limitation, reinvestment in additional shares of Common Stock or common share equivalents; provided, however, if the payment or crediting of dividends or dividend equivalents is in respect of a Stock Award that is subject to Section 409A of the Code, then the payment or crediting of such dividends or dividend equivalents shall conform to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and such requirements shall be specified in writing. Any shares purchased by or on behalf of Participants in a dividend reinvestment program established under the Plan shall not count towards the maximum number of shares that may be issued under the Plan as set forth in Section 6(a), provided that such shares are purchased in open-market transactions or are treasury shares purchased directly from the Company at fair market value at the time of purchase. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, Section 16(a) Officers may not participate in dividend reinvestment programs established under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, dividends or dividend equivalents may not be paid or accrue with respect to any shares of Common Stock subject to an Award pursuant to Section 7(e), unless and until the relevant performance criteria have been satisfied, and then only to the extent determined by the Committee, as specified in the Award Agreement.
 
 
The Committee shall determine whether a Participant shall have the right to direct the vote of shares of Common Stock allocated to a Stock Award. If the Committee determines that an Award shall carry voting rights, the shares allocated to such Award shall be voted by such person as the Committee may designate (the Plan Administrator) in accordance with instructions received from Participants (unless to do so would constitute a violation of fiduciary duties or any applicable exchange rules). In such cases, shares subject to Awards as to which no instructions are received shall be voted by the Plan Administrator
 
proportionately in accordance with instructions received with respect to all other Awards (including, for these purposes, outstanding awards granted under the Prior Plans or any other plan of the Company) that are eligible to vote (unless to do so would constitute a violation of fiduciary duties or any applicable exchange rules).
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Awards granted under the Plan, and during any period of restriction on transferability, shares of Common Stock issued in connection with the exercise of an Option or a SAR, may not be sold, pledged, hypothecated, assigned, margined or otherwise transferred in any manner other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, unless and until the shares underlying such Award have been issued, and all restrictions applicable to such shares have lapsed or have been waived by the Committee. No Award or interest or right therein shall be subject to the debts, contracts or engagements of a Participant or his or her successors in interest or shall be subject to disposition by transfer, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law, by judgment, lien, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy and divorce), and any attempted disposition thereof shall be null and void, of no effect, and not binding on the Company in any way. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit (on such terms, conditions and limitations as it may establish) Nonqualified Stock Options (including non-qualified Reload Options) and/or shares issued in connection with an Option or a SAR exercise that are subject to restrictions on transferability, to be transferred one time to a member of a Participants immediate family or to a trust or similar vehicle for the benefit of a Participants immediate family members. During the lifetime of a Participant, all rights with respect to Awards shall be exercisable only by such Participant or, if applicable pursuant to the preceding sentence, a permitted transferee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) above, any Participant whose employment is terminated by the Company other than for gross misconduct, or by the Participant for good reason (each as defined in the applicable Award Agreement) upon, or on or prior to the first anniversary of, a Change of Control, shall be deemed to have been terminated as a result of the Change of Control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement (as such may be amended from time to time) that sets forth the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations applicable to the Award, including, but not limited to, the provisions governing vesting, exercisability, payment, forfeiture, and termination of employment, all or some of which may be incorporated by reference into one or more other documents delivered or otherwise made available to a Participant in connection with an Award. The Committee need not require the execution of such document by the Participant, in which case acceptance of the Award by the Participant shall constitute agreement by the Participant to the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations set forth in the Plan and the Award Agreement as well as the administrative guidelines and practices of the Company in effect from time to time.
 
 
Participants shall be solely responsible for any applicable taxes (including without limitation income, payroll and excise taxes) and penalties, and any interest that accrues thereon, which they incur in connection with the receipt, vesting or exercise of any Award. The Company and its Subsidiaries shall have the right to require payment of, or may deduct from any payment made under the Plan or otherwise to a Participant, or may permit shares to be tendered or sold, including shares of Common Stock delivered or vested in connection with an Award in, an amount sufficient to cover withholding of any federal, state, local, foreign or other governmental taxes or charges required by law or such greater amount of withholding as the Committee shall determine from time to time and to take such other action as may be necessary to satisfy any such withholding obligations. The value of any shares allowed to be withheld or tendered for tax withholding may not exceed the amount allowed consistent with fixed plan accounting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, to the extent applicable. To the extent that a number of shares of Common Stock sufficient to satisfy a tax withholding obligation of the Company may not be withheld (whether because
 
the Award has not vested in full pursuant to its terms, administrative procedures in effect at such time, applicable accounting principles or any other reason), it shall be a condition to the obligation of the Company to issue shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of an Option or a SAR, or in settlement of any vested Award, that a Participant pay to the Company, on demand, such amount as may be requested by the Company for the purpose of satisfying any actual tax withholding liability (or any hypothetical tax owed to the Company, if such Participant is a current or former expatriate employee subject to a Company tax-equalization policy). If the amount is not timely paid to the Company in cash by such Participant, the Company may cancel the Award and refuse to issue such shares.
 
 
Awards received by Participants under the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a Participants regular, recurring compensation for purposes of calculating payments or benefits from any Company benefit plan or severance program unless specifically provided for under the plan or program. Unless specifically set forth in an Award Agreement, Awards under the Plan are not intended as payment for compensation that otherwise would have been delivered in cash, and even if so intended, such Awards shall be subject to such vesting requirements and other terms, conditions and restrictions as may be provided in the Award Agreement.
 
 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Plan shall be unfunded and shall not create (or be construed to create) a trust or a separate fund or funds. The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant or other person. To the extent any Participant holds any rights by virtue of an Award granted under the Plan, such rights shall constitute general unsecured liabilities of the Company and shall not confer upon any Participant or any other person or entity any right, title, or interest in any assets of the Company.
 
 
The expenses of the administration of the Plan shall be borne by the Company and its Subsidiaries. The Company may require Subsidiaries to pay for the Common Stock issued under the Plan.
 
 
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, a Participant shall not have any rights as a stockholder with respect to shares of Common Stock covered by an Award until the date the Participant becomes the holder of record with respect to such shares. No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to such date, except as provided in Section 9.
 
 
No Employee shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award under the Plan. There shall be no obligation of uniformity of treatment of Employees under the Plan. Further, the Company and its Subsidiaries may adopt other compensation programs, plans or arrangements as it deems appropriate or necessary. The adoption of the Plan shall not confer upon any Employee any right to continued employment in any particular position or at any particular rate of compensation, nor shall it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of its Employees at any time, free from any claim or liability under the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
The Plan and any applicable Award Agreement entered into under the Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of a Participant, including, without limitation, the estate of such
 
Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participants creditors.
 
23. Governing Law
 
The Plan and all agreements entered into under the Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 
24.
No Liability With Respect to Tax Qualification or Adverse Tax Treatment
 
Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, in no event shall the Company or any Subsidiary be liable to a Participant on account of an Award's failure to (i) qualify for favorable U.S. or foreign tax treatment or (ii) avoid adverse tax treatment under U.S. or foreign law, including, without limitation, Sections 409A and 457A of the Code.
 


