FILE:C/C-8K-20120629092954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
  
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITIGROUP INC.
Current Report on Form 8-K
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.01
 
TERMS AGREEMENT
 
June 25, 2012
 
Citigroup Inc.
399 Park Avenue New York, New York 10043
 
Attention: Assistant Treasurer
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We understand that Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), proposes to issue and sell NZ$500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its debt securities (the ). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, we, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited and National Australia Bank Limited, as underwriters (the ), offer to purchase, severally and not jointly, the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite our respective names on the list attached as Annex A hereto at99.675%of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from the date of issuance. The Closing Date shall be June 29, 2012, at 9:30 a.m. (London Time). The closing shall take place at the offices of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP located at One Liberty Plaza, New York, New York 10006.
Company
Securities
Underwriters
 
The Securities shall have the following terms:
 
 
 
 
Additional Terms:
 
 
The Securities shall be issuable as Registered Securities only. The Securities will be initially represented by one or more global Securities registered in the name of Citivic Nominees Limited, as nominee for, and in respect of interests held through, Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and Clearstream International, for notes offered and sold outside the United States, and by one or more global Securities registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Company (DTC), for the notes offered and sold inside the United States, as described in the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement relating to the Securities. Beneficial interests in the Securities will be shown on, and transfers thereof will be effected only through, records maintained by DTC, Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and Clearstream International and their respective participants. Owners of beneficial interests in the Securities will be entitled to physical delivery of Securities in certificated form only under the limited circumstances described in the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement. Principal and interest on the Securities shall be payable in New Zealand Dollars; however, when interests in the notes are held through DTC, all payments in respect of such DTC notes will be made in U.S. dollars, unless the holder of a beneficial interest in the DTC notes elects to receive payment in New Zealand Dollars. The relevant provisions of Article Eleven of the Indenture relating to defeasance shall apply to the Securities.
 
All the provisions contained in the document entitled Citigroup Inc. Debt Securities  Underwriting Agreement  Basic Provisions and dated March 2, 2006 (the ), a copy of which you have previously received, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if the Basic Provisions had been set forth in full herein, for
Basic Provisions
except
 
Section 1(a), which is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following: 
        
The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Act and has prepared and filed with the Commission a shelf registration statement (File No. 333- 172562), including a related Base Prospectus, for registration under the Act of the offering and sale of the Securities. Such Registration Statement, including any amendments thereto filed prior to the Execution Time, have become effective. The Company may have filed with the Commission, as part of an amendment to the Registration Statement or pursuant to Rule 424(b), one or more preliminary prospectus supplements relating to the Securities, each of which has previously been furnished to you. The Company will file with the Commission a final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities in accordance with Rule 424(b). As filed, such final prospectus supplement shall contain all information required by the Act and the rules thereunder, and, except to the extent the Representatives shall agree in writing to a modification, shall be in all substantive respects in the form furnished to you prior to the Execution Time or, to the extent not completed at the Execution Time, shall contain only such specific additional information and other changes (beyond that contained in the Base Prospectus and any Preliminary Prospectus) as the Company has advised you, prior to the Execution Time, will be included or made therein. The Registration Statement, at the Execution Time, meets the requirements set forth in Rule 415(a)(1)(x). The initial Effective Date of the Registration Statement was not earlier than the date three years before the Execution Time.;
 
 
 
 
 
 
(g) On each Effective Date, at the Execution Time and on the Closing Date, the interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement fairly presents the information called for in all material respects and has been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto."
 
Terms defined in the Basic Provisions are used herein as therein defined. The Execution Time means 11:25 a.m. (Eastern Time).
 
The Company agrees to use its best efforts to have the Securities approved for listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and to maintain such listing so long as any of the Securities are outstanding, provided, however, that:
 
(a) if it is impracticable or unduly burdensome, in the good faith determination of the Company, to maintain such listing due to changes in listing requirements occurring after the date of the Prospectus Supplement, or
 
(b) if the Transparency Directive (as defined in the Prospectus) is implemented in Luxembourg in a manner that would require the Company to publish financial information according to accounting principles or standards that are materially different from United States generally accepted accounting principles, the Company may de-list the Securities from the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain an alternative admission to listing, trading and/or quotation of the Securities by another listing authority, exchange or system within or outside the European Union as it may decide. If such an alternative admission is not available or is, in the Companys opinion, unduly burdensome, such an alternative admission will not be obtained, and the Company shall have no further obligation in respect of any listing, trading or quotation for the Securities.
 
The Underwriters hereby agree in connection with the underwriting of the Securities to comply with the requirements set forth in any applicable sections of Rule 5121 of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA). Additionally, neither Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited nor National Australia Bank Limited are a U.S. registered broker-dealer, and therefore, to the extent either intends to effect any sales of the Securities in the United States, it will do so through ANZ Securities, Inc., nabSecurities, LLC, or another U.S. registered broker-dealer in accordance with the applicable U.S. securities laws and regulations, and as permitted by FINRA regulations.
 
 
 
Selling Restrictions:
 
European Economic Area
 
Each Underwriter represents and agrees that in relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a Relevant Member State), with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that relevant member state (the ), an offer to the public of any Securities which are the subject of this offering may not be made in that Relevant Member State prior to the publication of a prospectus in relation to such Securities that has been approved by the competent authority in that Relevant Member State or, where appropriate, approved in another Relevant Member State and notified to the competent authority in that Relevant Member State, all in accordance with the Prospectus Directive, except that, with effect from and including the Relevant Implementation Date, an offer to the public in that Relevant Member State of any Securities may be made at any time to any legal entity which is a qualified investor as defined in the Prospectus Directive.
Relevant Implementation Date
 
For the purposes of this provision, the expression an offer to the public in relation to any Securities in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and any Securities to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase any Securities, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression Prospectus Directive means Directive 2003/71/EC (and amendments thereto, including the 2010 PD Amending Directive, to the extent implemented in the relevant member state) and includes any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State and the expression 2010 PD Amending Directive means Directive 2010/73/EU.
 
This EEA selling restriction is in addition to any other selling restrictions set out below.
 
United Kingdom
 
Each Underwriter represents and agrees that the Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus relating to this offering is only being distributed to, and is only directed at, persons in the United Kingdom that are qualified investors within the meaning of Article 2(1)(e) of the Prospectus Directive that are also (i) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the Order) or (ii) high net worth entities, and other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as Relevant Persons).
 
 
France
 
No prospectus (including any amendment, supplement or replacement thereto) has been prepared in connection with the offering of the Securities that has been approved by the or by the competent authority of another State that is a contracting party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and notified to the ; each Underwriter represents and agrees that no Securities have been offered or sold nor will be offered or sold, directly or indirectly, to the public in France; each Underwriter represents and agrees that the prospectus or any other offering material relating to the Securities have not been distributed or caused to be distributed and will not be distributed or caused to be distributed to the public in France; such offers, sales and distributions have been and shall only be made in France to persons licensed to provide the investment service of portfolio management for the account of third parties, qualified investors () and/or a restricted circle of investors (), in each case investing for their own account, all as defined in Articles L. 411-2, D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D. 411-4, D. 734-1, D.744-1, D. 754-1 and D. 764-1 of the . Each Underwriter represents and agrees that the direct or indirect distribution to the public in France of any so acquired Securities may be made only as provided by Articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2, L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 to L. 621-8-3 of the and applicable regulations thereunder.
Autorit des marchs financiers
Autorit des marchs financiers
investisseurs qualifis
cercle restreint dinvestisseurs
Code montaire et financier
Code montaire et financier
 
Hong Kong
 
Each Underwriter:
 
(a) has not offered or sold and will not offer or sell in Hong Kong, by means of any document, any Securities other than to (i) professional investors as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) of Hong Kong and any rules made under that Ordinance; or (ii) in other circumstances which do not result in the document being a prospectus as defined in the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 32) of Hong Kong or which do not constitute an offer to the public within the meaning of that Ordinance; and
 
(b) has not issued or had in its possession for the purposes of issue, and will not issue or have in its possession for the purposes of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, any advertisement, invitation or document relating to the Securities, which is directed at, or the contents of which are or are likely to be accessed or read by, the public in Hong Kong (except if permitted to do so under securities laws of Hong Kong) other than with respect to Securities which are or are intended to be disposed of only to persons outside Hong Kong or only to professional investors within the meaning of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) of Hong Kong and any rules made under that Ordinance.
 
Japan
 
The Securities have not been and will not be registered under the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan. The Underwriters will not offer or sell, directly or indirectly, any of the Securities in Japan or to, or for the account or benefit of, any resident of Japan or to, or for the account or benefit of, any resident for reoffering or resale, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the account or benefit of, any resident of Japan except (i) pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in compliance with, the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan and (ii) in compliance with the other relevant laws and regulations of Japan.
 
 
 
Singapore
 
The Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus relating to this offering have not been and will not be registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore under the Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289 of Singapore) (the SFA). Accordingly, each Underwriter has not offered or sold any Securities or caused the Securities to be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase and will not offer or sell any Securities or cause the Securities to be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, and has not circulated or distributed, nor will it circulate or distribute, such Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus or any other document or material in connection with the offer or sale, or invitation for subscription or purchase, of the Securities, whether directly or indirectly, to persons in Singapore other than (i) to an institutional investor under Section 274 of the SFA, (ii) to a relevant person, or any person pursuant to Section 275(1A), and in accordance with the conditions, specified in Section 275 of the SFA or (iii) otherwise pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA.
 
Each Underwriter will notify (whether through the distribution of the Prospectus Supplement and accompanying Prospectus relating to this offering or otherwise) each of the following relevant persons specified in Section 275 of the SFA which has subscribed or purchased Securities from or through that Underwriter, namely a person which is:
 
(a) a corporation (which is not an accredited investor (as defined in Section 4A of the SFA)) the sole business of which is to hold investments and the entire share capital of which is owned by one or more individuals, each of whom is an accredited investor; or
 
(b) a trust (where the trustee is not an accredited investor) whose sole purpose is to hold investments and each beneficiary is an accredited investor, that shares, debentures and units of shares and debentures of that corporation or the beneficiaries rights and interest in that trust shall not be transferable for 6 months after that corporation or that trust has acquired the Securities under Section 275 of the SFA except:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the legal opinions required by Sections 6(b) and 6(c) of the Basic Provisions, the Underwriters shall have received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special U.S. tax counsel to the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that although the discussion set forth in the Prospectus under the heading United States Federal Income Tax Considerations does not purport to discuss all possible United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to holders of the Securities, such discussion, to the extent applicable, constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Securities to holders of the Securities.
 
Michael J. Tarpley, Esq., Associate General Counsel-Capital Markets of the Company, is counsel to the Company. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP has also acted as counsel to the Company in connection with matters related to the issuance of the Securities. Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP is counsel to the Underwriters.
 
Please accept this offer no later than 9:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on June 25, 2012 by signing a copy of this Terms Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to us, or by sending us a written acceptance in the following form:
 
 
 
We hereby accept your offer, set forth in the Terms Agreement, dated June 25, 2012, to purchase the Securities on the terms set forth therein.
 
 
 
Very tr
 
 
 
ANNEX A
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX B
 
FINAL TERM SHEET
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.01
 
This Note is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depository named below or a nominee of the Depository. This Note is not exchangeable for Notes registered in the name of a Person other than the Depository or its nominee except in the limited circumstances described herein and in the Indenture, and no transfer of this Note (other than a transfer of this Note as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository) may be registered except in the limited circumstances described herein.
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (the Depository), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
  
CITIGROUP INC.
6.250% Notes due June 29, 2017
 
  
CITIGROUP INC., a Delaware corporation (the Company, which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of NZ$__ on June 29, 2017 and to pay interest thereon from and including June 29, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on June 29 and December 29 of each year, commencing December 29, 2012 at the rate of 6.250% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such interest, which shall be the June 15 or December 15 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
 
 
 
Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holder on such Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent Record Date, such subsequent Record Date to be not less than five days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to holders of Notes of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
 
Interest hereon will be calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and the actual number of days in the year divided by two.
 
If either an Interest Payment Date or the Maturity of the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date or Maturity will be the next succeeding Business Day. If a date for payment of interest or principal on the Notes falls on a day that is not a business day in the place of payment, such payment will be made on the next succeeding business day in such place of payment as if made on the date the payment was due. No interest will accrue on any amounts payable for the period from and after the due date for payment of such principal or interest.
 
For these purposes, Business Day means any day which is a day on which commercial banks settle payments and are open for general business in The City of New York, London, Auckland and Wellington.
 
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in London in New Zealand dollars, including holders of interests in this Note through The Depository Trust Company unless they make an election to receive payment in United States dollars in accordance with the procedures of The Depository Trust Company and the Fiscal Agency Agreement dated as of June 29, 2012 (the "Fiscal Agency Agreement"), in which case the exchange agent under the Fiscal Agency Agreement will convert the New Zealand dollars paid by the Company into United States dollars in accordance with the Fiscal Agency Agreement.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee or by an authenticating agent on behalf of the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal. 
 
Dated: June 29, 2012
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
By:___________________________
Title: Assistant Secretary
 
 
 
This is one of the Notes of the series issued under the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Dated: June 29, 2012
 
 
 
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company (the Notes), issued and to be issued in one or more series under the Indenture, dated as of March 15, 1987 (as amended and supplemented to date, the Indenture), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee (the Trustee, which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal to NZ$500,000,000.
formerly known as The Bank of New York,
 
So long as the Notes of this series are in the form of Global Securities only, all Notes of this series will collectively be evidenced (a) by this Global Note (the DTC Global Note) and (b) by the Global Security of this series registered in the name of Citivic Nominees Limited (the International Global Note). The DTC Global Note and the International Global Note will at all times collectively represent the aggregate principal amount of this series outstanding from time to time. If at any time a portion of the International Global Note is exchanged for an interest in the DTC Global Note, the principal amount of the DTC Global Note shall be increased by the amount of such portion, and the DTC Global Note shall be endorsed on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests thereto to reflect such principal increase, subject to the limitation that in no event may the principal amount of the DTC Global Note be greater than the equivalent in U.S. dollars of $500,000,000. If at any time a portion of the DTC Global Note is exchanged for an interest in the International Global Note, the principal amount of the DTC Global Note shall be decreased by the amount of such portion, and the DTC Global Note shall be endorsed on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests thereto to reflect such principal decrease. To ascertain the U.S. dollar equivalent of the principal amount endorsed on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests attached to the DTC Global Note, inquiry shall be made of the exchange agent under the Fiscal Agency Agreement, and the U.S. dollar equivalent quoted by such exchange agent (and the date of such quote) shall be noted on such Schedule of Exchanges of Interests next to the corresponding New Zealand dollar amount.
 
If an event of default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth in Sections 11.03 and 11.04 thereof, which provisions apply to this Note.
 
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, without the consent of the holders of the Securities, to establish, among other things, the form and terms of any series of Securities issuable thereunder by one or more supplemental indentures, and, with the consent of the holders of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of Securities at the time outstanding which are affected thereby, to modify the Indenture or any supplemental indenture or the rights of the holders of Securities of such series to be affected, provided that no such modification will (i) extend the fixed maturity of any Securities, reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, reduce the principal amount thereof or the premium, if any, thereon, reduce the amount of the principal of Original Issue Discount Securities payable on any date, change the currency in which Securities are payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the maturity thereof, without the consent of the holder of each Security so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Securities of any series the consent of the holders of which is required for any such modification without the consent of the holders of all Securities of such series then outstanding, or (iii) modify, without the written consent of the Trustee, the rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee.
 
 
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
This Note is a Global Security registered in the name of a nominee of the Depository. This Note is exchangeable for Notes registered in the name of a person other than the Depository or its nominee only in the limited circumstances hereinafter described. Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for definitive Notes in certificated form, this Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository.
 
The Notes represented by this Global Security are exchangeable for definitive Notes in certificated form of like tenor as such Notes in denominations of NZ$1,000 and whole multiples of NZ$1,000 in excess thereof only if (i) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for the DTC Global Note or (ii) the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or (iii) both the Euroclear System and Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, notify the Company that they are unwilling or unable to continue as a clearing system for the International Global Note or (iv) the Company in its sole discretion decides to allow the Notes to be exchanged for definitive Notes in registered form. Any Notes that are exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence are exchangeable for certificated Notes issuable in authorized denominations and registered in such names as the Depository shall direct. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of definitive Notes in certificated form is registrable in the register maintained by the Company in The City of New York for such purpose, upon surrender of the definitive Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the registrar, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the registrar duly executed by, the holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. Subject to the foregoing, this Note is not exchangeable, except for a Global Security or Global Securities of this issue of the same principal amount to be registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee.
 
 
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
The Company will pay additional amounts (Additional Amounts) to the beneficial owner of any Note that is a non-United States person in order to ensure that every net payment on such Note will not be less, due to payment of U.S. withholding tax, than the amount then due and payable. For this purpose, a net payment on a Note means a payment by the Company or a paying agent, including payment of principal and interest, after deduction for any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge of the United States. These Additional Amounts will constitute additional interest on the Note.
 
The Company will not be required to pay Additional Amounts, however, in any of the circumstances described in items (1) through (13) below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of items (1) through (4) above, beneficial owner means a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of the holder if the holder is an estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other entity, or a person holding a power over an estate or trust administered by a fiduciary holder.
 
 
 
or that is not the sole beneficial owner of the Note, or any portion of the Note. However, this exception to the obligation to pay Additional Amounts will only apply to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor in relation to the fiduciary, or a beneficial owner or member of the partnership, limited liability company or other fiscally transparent entity, would not have been entitled to the payment of an Additional Amount had the beneficiary, settlor, beneficial owner or member received directly its beneficial or distributive share of the payment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as specifically provided herein, the Company will not be required to make any payment of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any government or a political subdivision or taxing authority of such government.
 
As used in this Note, United States person means:
 
 
Additionally, non-United States person means a person who is not a United States person, and United States means the states of the United States of America and the District of Columbia, but excluding its territories and its possessions.
 
Except as provided below, the Notes may not be redeemed prior to maturity.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any redemption of the Notes as set forth in clauses (1) or (2) above shall be in whole, and not in part, and will be made at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes Outstanding plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption. Holders shall be given not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior notice by the Trustee of the date fixed for such redemption.
 
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. The Notes are governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Note for an interest in another Global Security or for a certificated Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Security or certificated Note for an interest in this Note, have been made:
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Exhibit 4.02
 
 
This Note is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depository named below or a nominee of the Depository. This Note is not exchangeable for Notes registered in the name of a Person other than the Depository or its nominee except in the limited circumstances described herein and in the Indenture, and no transfer of this Note (other than a transfer of this Note as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository) may be registered except in the limited circumstances described herein.
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Euroclear System or Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme (each a Depository), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Citivic Nominees Limited or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to Citivic Nominees Limited or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Citivic Nominees Limited, has an interest herein.
 
 
CITIGROUP INC.
6.250% Notes due March 2, 2017
 
 
CITIGROUP INC., a Delaware corporation (the Company, which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Citivic Nominees Limited, or registered assigns, the principal sum of up to NZ$__________ (or such other principal sum as has been most lately endorsed on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests hereto) on June 29, 2017 and to pay interest thereon from and including June 29, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on June 29 and December 29 of each year, commencing December 29, 2012, at the rate of 6.250% per annum on each Interest Payment Date until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such interest, which shall be the June 15 or December 15 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
 
 
 
Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holder on such Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent Record Date, such subsequent Record Date to be not less than five days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to holders of Notes of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
 
Interest hereon will be calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and the actual number of days in the year divided by two.
 
If either an Interest Payment Date or the Maturity of the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date or Maturity will be the next succeeding Business Day. If a date for payment of interest or principal on the Notes falls on a day that is not a business day in the place of payment, such payment will be made on the next succeeding business day in such place of payment as if made on the date the payment was due. No interest will accrue on any amounts payable for the period from and after the due date for payment of such principal or interest.
 
For these purposes, Business Day means any day which is a day on which commercial banks settle payments and are open for general business in The City of New York, London, Auckland and Wellington.
 
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in London in New Zealand dollars.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee or by an authenticating agent on behalf of the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
 
Dated: June 29, 2012
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
By:___________________________
Title: Assistant Secretary
 
 
This is one of the Notes of the series issued under the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Dated: June 29, 2012
 
 
 
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company (the Notes), issued and to be issued in one or more series under the Indenture, dated as of March 15, 1987 (as amended and supplemented to date, the Indenture), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, formerly known as The Bank of New York, as Trustee (the Trustee, which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal to NZ$500,000,000.
 
So long as the Notes of this series are in the form of Global Securities only, all Notes of this series will collectively be evidenced (a) by the Global Securities for this series registered in the name of Cede & Co. and bearing registration number R-0001-DTC-A (the DTC Global Note) and (b) by this Global Note (the "International Global Note"). The DTC Global Note and the International Global Note will at all times collectively represent the aggregate principal amount of this series outstanding from time to time. If at any time a portion of the International Global Note is exchanged for an interest in the DTC Global Note, the principal amount of the DTC Global Note shall be increased by the amount of such portion, and the DTC Global Note shall be endorsed on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests thereto to reflect such principal increase, subject to the limitation that in no event may the principal amount of the DTC Global Note be greater than the equivalent in U.S. dollars of $500,000,000. If at any time a portion of the DTC Global Note is exchanged for an interest in the International Global Note, the principal amount of the DTC Global Note shall be decreased by the amount of such portion, and the DTC Global Note shall be endorsed on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests thereto to reflect such principal decrease. To ascertain the U.S. dollar equivalent of the principal amount endorsed on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests attached to the DTC Global Note, inquiry shall be made of the exchange agent under the Fiscal Agency Agreement, and the U.S. dollar equivalent quoted by such exchange agent (and the date of such quote) shall be noted on such Schedule of Exchanges of Interests next to the corresponding New Zealand dollar amount.
 
If an event of default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth in Sections 11.03 and 11.04 thereof, which provisions apply to this Note.
 
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, without the consent of the holders of the Securities, to establish, among other things, the form and terms of any series of Securities issuable thereunder by one or more supplemental indentures, and, with the consent of the holders of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of Securities at the time outstanding which are affected thereby, to modify the Indenture or any supplemental indenture or the rights of the holders of Securities of such series to be affected, provided that no such modification will (i) extend the fixed maturity of any Securities, reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, reduce the principal amount thereof or the premium, if any, thereon, reduce the amount of the principal of Original Issue Discount Securities payable on any date, change the currency in which Securities are payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the maturity thereof, without the consent of the holder of each Security so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Securities of any series the consent of the holders of which is required for any such modification without the consent of the holders of all Securities of such series then outstanding, or (iii) modify, without the written consent of the Trustee, the rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee.
 
 
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
This Note is a Global Security registered in the name of a nominee of the Depository. This Note is exchangeable for Notes registered in the name of a person other than the Depository or its nominee only in the limited circumstances hereinafter described. Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for definitive Notes in certificated form, this Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository.
 
The Notes represented by this Global Security are exchangeable for definitive Notes in certificated form of like tenor as such Notes in denominations of NZ$1,000 and whole multiples of NZ$1,000 in excess thereof only if (i) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for the DTC Global Note or (ii) the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or (iii) both the Euroclear System and Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, notify the Company that they are unwilling or unable to continue as a clearing system for the International Global Note or (iv) the Company in its sole discretion decides to allow the Notes to be exchanged for definitive Notes in registered form. Any Notes that are exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence are exchangeable for certificated Notes issuable in authorized denominations and registered in such names as the Depository shall direct. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of definitive Notes in certificated form is registrable in the register maintained by the Company in The City of New York for such purpose, upon surrender of the definitive Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the registrar, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the registrar duly executed by, the holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. Subject to the foregoing, this Note is not exchangeable, except for a Global Security or Global Securities of this issue of the same principal amount to be registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee.
 
 
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
The Company will pay additional amounts (Additional Amounts) to the beneficial owner of any Note that is a non-United States person in order to ensure that every net payment on such Note will not be less, due to payment of U.S. withholding tax, than the amount then due and payable. For this purpose, a net payment on a Note means a payment by the Company or a paying agent, including payment of principal and interest, after deduction for any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge of the United States. These Additional Amounts will constitute additional interest on the Note.
 
The Company will not be required to pay Additional Amounts, however, in any of the circumstances described in items (1) through (13) below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of items (1) through (4) above, beneficial owner means a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of the holder if the holder is an estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other entity, or a person holding a power over an estate or trust administered by a fiduciary holder.
 
 
 
or that is not the sole beneficial owner of the Note, or any portion of the Note. However, this exception to the obligation to pay Additional Amounts will only apply to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor in relation to the fiduciary, or a beneficial owner or member of the partnership, limited liability company or other fiscally transparent entity, would not have been entitled to the payment of an Additional Amount had the beneficiary, settlor, beneficial owner or member received directly its beneficial or distributive share of the payment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as specifically provided herein, the Company will not be required to make any payment of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any government or a political subdivision or taxing authority of such government.
 
As used in this Note, United States person means:
 
 
Additionally, non-United States person means a person who is not a United States person, and United States means the states of the United States of America and the District of Columbia, but excluding its territories and its possessions.
 
Except as provided below, the Notes may not be redeemed prior to maturity.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any redemption of the Notes as set forth in clauses (1) or (2) above shall be in whole, and not in part, and will be made at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes Outstanding plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption. Holders shall be given not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior notice by the Trustee of the date fixed for such redemption.
 
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. The Notes are governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Note for an interest in another Global Security or for a certificated Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Security or certificated Note for an interest in this Note, have been made:
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.03
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITIGROUP INC.
 
And
 
CITIBANK, N.A.
As Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Transfer Agent and Exchange Agent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AGENCY AGREEMENT
NZ$500,000,000 6.250% Notes due 2017
 
Dated as of June 29, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made in London as of June 29, 2012, BY
 
 
 
WHEREAS pursuant to the Terms Agreement dated June 25, 2012, that incorporate by reference the underwriting agreement basic provisions dated March 2, 2006 (together, the ) between the Issuer and the Underwriters named therein, the Issuer has agreed to issue its NZ$ 500,000,000 6.250% Notes due June 2017 (the ); and
Underwriting Agreement
Notes
 
WHEREAS the Issuer wishes to appoint Citibank, N.A. to act as Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Transfer Agent and Exchange Agent in relation to the Notes upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Schedules hereto.
 
 
IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:
 
1.            
DEFINITIONS, INTERPRETATION
 
The following terms shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the respective meanings indicated below:
 
means any of the Fiscal Agent, the Registrar, the Exchange Agent and the Transfer Agent.
Agent(s)
 
means, with respect to a particular Series, the terms and conditions of such Series, as contained in the applicable Global Notes, in the Prospectus Supplement dated June 25, 2012 to the Prospectus dated May 12, 2011, and the Indenture.
Conditions
 
means, with respect to a particular Series, either one or both of (i) the International Global Note in the form of Schedule 1 attached hereto and (ii) the DTC Global Notes in the form of Schedule 2 attached hereto (also referred to herein as the and the, respectively).
Global Notes
International Global Note
DTC Global Note
 
means the Indenture dated as of March 15, 1987, as amended and supplemented to date, between the Issuer and The Bank of New York Mellon (the ).
Indenture
Trustee
 
Terms not defined herein shall have the same meanings as are assigned thereto in the Underwriting Agreement and the Conditions. References to  are to New Zealand Dollars.
NZ$
 
 
2.            
APPOINTMENTS
 
2.1           The Issuer hereby appoints Citibank, N.A. to act as Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Transfer Agent and Exchange Agent in respect of the Notes and Global Notes.
 
2.2Citibank, N.A. hereby accepts such appointments, and agrees to act in such capacities, solely on the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement and the Schedules hereto. In particular, the Fiscal Agent agrees to arrange on behalf of and at the request and expense of the Issuer any publication of notices pursuant to the Conditions.
           
 
2.3           The obligations of the Agents are several and not joint.
 
3.             
THE NOTES
 
3.1The Notes shall be represented by permanent Global Notes without interest coupons as specified in the Conditions. Each International Global Note and DTC Global Note shall be substantially in the forms attached hereto as Schedules 1 and 2, respectively, in each case with such changes as may be agreed between the Issuer and the Trustee. The Conditions shall be attached to, or endorsed upon, each Global Note. In the event that individual definitive Notes are issued, the parties shall enter into a supplement to this Agreement to provide for the matters set forth herein with regard to such definitive Notes.
           
 
3.2            Each Global Note shall be signed manually or in facsimile by a duly authorised officer of the Issuer and dated the Issue Date. Each Global Note shall be authenticated manually by Citibank, N.A., as authenticating agent on behalf of the Trustee, and delivered to (i) in the case of the International Global Note, Citibank, N.A. as common depositary for Euroclear and Clearstream, and (ii), in the case of the DTC Global Notes, Citibank, N.A., London office as custodian for The Depository Trust Company, New York ().
DTC
 
           
4.
PAYING AGENCY
 
4.1           The Issuer shall remit the funds necessary for the payment of interest on and principal of the Notes to the Fiscal Agent, in NZ$ in same-day funds, to such account at the Fiscal Agent in London as the Fiscal Agent may from time to time specify (the ) by 10:00 am (London time) on the second Business Day immediately prior to the date on which such payment is due.Business Day shall mean a day on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments and are open for general business in each of London, Auckland, Wellington and New York City.
Redemption Account
 
The Issuer hereby authorizes and directs the Fiscal Agent, from the amounts so paid to it, to make payment of the principal of, and interest on, the Notes on the due date for payment set forth in the Conditions and this Agreement. The Fiscal Agent shall be entitled to make payments net of any taxes or other sums required to be withheld or deducted by any applicable law.
 
The Issuer shall confirm to the Fiscal Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. (London time) on the second Business Day before the relevant date for such payment that it has issued irrevocable payment instructions for such payment to be made.
 
4.2If for any reason the Fiscal Agent does not receive unconditionally the full amount payable by the Issuer on the relevant due date in respect of all the outstanding or maturing Notes, the Fiscal Agent shall as soon as reasonably practicable notify the Issuer by facsimile. The Fiscal Agent shall not be bound to make any payment of principal or interest in respect of the Notes until the Fiscal Agent has received to its order the full amount of the monies then due and payable in respect of all outstanding or maturing Notes, provided, however, that if the Fiscal Agent shall, in its discretion, make any payment of principal or interest on or after the due date therefor in respect of the Notes prior to its unconditional receipt of the full amount then due and payable in respect of all outstanding Notes, the Issuer will promptly pay such amount to the Fiscal Agent and will compensate the Fiscal Agent at a rate equal to the Fiscal Agents cost of funding.
           
 
 
 
4.3Out of the sums paid to the Fiscal Agent in respect of interest and principal on the Notes, the Fiscal Agent will make payment free of charge to the registered holder of the International Global Note and the DTC Global Note as stipulated in Clause 9 below, in the amounts specified in the Conditions. The Fiscal Agent shall obtain from the Registrar, and the Registrar shall supply, such details as are required for the Fiscal Agent to make payment as stated above.
           
 
4.4           In respect of the monies paid to it relating to any Note, the Fiscal Agent
 
4.4.1 shall not be entitled to exercise any lien, right of set-off or similar claim (including without limitation any claim arising from or relating to any other issue of securities by the Issuer),
4.4.2 shall not be required to account for interest thereon and
4.4.3 money held by it need not be segregated except as may be required by applicable law.
 
Any funds held by the Fiscal Agent are held as banker and shall not be subject to the UK FSA Client Money Rules
 
5.           
DOCUMENTS FOR INSPECTION AND PUBLICATION OF NOTICES
 
5.1On behalf and at the request and expense of the Issuer, the Fiscal Agent shall cause to be published any notices required to be given by the Issuer in accordance with the Conditions.
          
 
5.2The Issuer shall provide to the Fiscal Agent sufficient copies of all documents required by the Conditions to be available for issue or inspection, and the Fiscal Agent shall make such copies available to Noteholders upon their request.
          
 
5.3To the extent practicable, the Issuer shall provide the Fiscal Agent with a copy (prior to publication) of all notices to be issued in connection with the Notes.
          
 
6.           
CANCELLATION OF THE GLOBAL NOTES
 
6.1Subject to the terms of the Indenture, as soon as practicable upon the Issuers request, the Registrar shall take all measures necessary to cancel any Notes which the Issuer has repurchased or whose maturity has been accelerated pursuant to the Conditions. The Registrar shall cause any such Notes (i) to the extent represented by the International Global Note, to be cancelled resulting in a reduction in the aggregate amount of the Notes represented by the International Global Note by the aggregate amount of Notes so cancelled, and (ii) to the extent represented by the DTC Global Note, to be cancelled in accordance with the procedures established for that purpose by DTC, resulting in a reduction in the aggregate amount of the Notes represented by the DTC Global Note by the aggregate amount of the Notes so cancelled.
          
 
6.2On the same day such cancellation is effected, the Registrar shall record such cancellation of Notes on the Register in such a way that the aggregate principal amount of Notes cancelled at any time together with the aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding and represented by the Global Notes shall equal the aggregate principal amount of Notes originally issued by the Issuer.
          
 
6.3The Registrar shall upon request furnish the Issuer with a notice of cancellation signed by an authorized officer of the Registrar confirming the cancellation of such Notes and the corresponding reduction of the relevant Global Note(s).
          
 
7.           
DUTIES OF THE REGISTRAR
 
7.1           The Registrar shall maintain the Register in London in accordance with the Conditions. The Register shall show the aggregate amount of Notes represented by each Global Note at the date of issue and all subsequent transfers and exchanges involving a change in such amounts and the names and addresses of the registered holders (each a ). On the first Business Day after the Record Date for any interest payment on the Notes, the Registrar shall send payment details in respect of the Payees and the NZ$ accounts to which transfers should be made to the Fiscal Agent.
Payee
 
 
 
7.2          Transfers or exchanges of Notes will be made in accordance with the Conditions, the procedures established for this purpose between Euroclear, Clearstream, DTC and the Registrar, and Euroclear, Clearstream and DTCs regulations applicable to such transfers or exchanges. Any such transfer or exchange which results in a change in the aggregate principal amount of Notes held by Euroclear, Clearstream and DTC shall be notified by Euroclear, Clearstream and DTC to the Registrar. The Registrar shall promptly enter details of the transfer or exchange in the Register, which entry shall, without further action, cause the aggregate principal amount represented by each Global Note to be amended accordingly.
 
7.3The Registrar shall at all reasonable times during office hours make the Register available to the Issuer and the Fiscal Agent or any person authorised by either of them for inspection and for the taking of copies thereof or extracts therefrom, and the Registrar shall deliver to such persons such information contained in the Register or relating to the Notes as they may reasonably request.
          
 
 
If and to the extent so specified by the Conditions and in accordance therewith, or if otherwise requested by the Issuer, the Transfer Agent shall make available all relevant forms of transfer, inform the Registrar of the name and address of the relevant person to be inserted in the Register and carry out such other acts as may be necessary to give effect to the Conditions and this Agreement.
 
9.            
PAYMENTS TO DTC NOTEHOLDERS
 
9.1All amounts of principal and interest due in respect of the Notes which are represented by the DTC Global Note (each a ) shall be paid in U.S. dollars (each such payment being referred to herein as a  ), unless DTC has advised the Fiscal Agent that the relevant Noteholder has made an effective election to receive all or a portion of its payment in New Zealand Dollars outside DTC (each a ).
          
DTC Amount
U.S.
Dollar Payment
NZ$ Payment
 
9.2The Fiscal Agent shall, from each DTC Amount received by it, make U.S. Dollar Payments in accordance with the Conditions and NZ$ Payments in accordance with the Conditions.
          
 
10.         
DUTIES OF EXCHANGE AGENT
 
For the purposes of this Clause 10, a payment date shall be each date on which the Issuer is obligated to remit funds to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to Clause 4.1.
 
The Exchange Agent shall:
 
 
 
 
11.         
CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENT
 
11.1         The Issuer will pay to the Agents a remuneration for all services rendered hereunder by the Agents in connection with the Notes together with any expenses incurred as separately agreed upon by the Agents and the Issuer.
 
11.2         The Issuer will indemnify and hold harmless each of the Agents against any loss, liability or expense which it may incur or any claim, action or demand which may be made against it arising out of or in connection with such Agents appointment or the exercise of its powers and duties hereunder without gross negligence or wilful misconduct on the part of such Agent.
 
11.3         Each Agent will indemnify and hold harmless the Issuer against any loss, liability or expense incurred by the Issuer or any claim, action or demand which may be made against the Issuer resulting from the gross negligence or wilful misconduct on the part of such Agent (or such Agents officers, employees or agents) and arising out of or in connection with such Agents duties hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, under no circumstances will any Agent be liable to the Issuer or any other person for any consequential loss (being loss of business, goodwill, opportunity or profit) even if advised to the possibility of such loss or damages.
 
11.4         The indemnities above shall survive the termination or expiry of this Agreement.
 
11.5         Each of the Agents shall be protected and shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered in reliance upon any instruction or communication from the Issuer or any document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been delivered, signed or sent by the proper party or parties in accordance with the provisions hereof, except such as may result from its own gross negligence or wilful misconduct or that of its officers, employees or agents. Each of the Agents shall be entitled to do refrain from acting under any instruction, without liability, if the instructions received are conflicting, unclear or equivocal.
 
11.6         In acting hereunder and in connection with the Notes, the Agents do not assume any relationship of agency and trust for the Noteholders, and shall not have any obligation towards them except that all funds held by the Fiscal Agent for payment of principal of or interest on the Notes shall be held for payment to the Noteholders and shall be applied as set forth herein and in the Conditions. Except as otherwise required by applicable law, no Agent will be required to segregate any funds held by it hereunder from any of its other funds.
 
11.7         Nothing herein shall be deemed to require any Agent to advance its own funds in the performance of its duties hereunder.
 
11.8         The Agents may consult with legal and other professional advisers selected in good faith and satisfactory to them and the opinion of such advisers shall be full and complete protection in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered hereunder in good faith and without negligence and in accordance with the opinion of such advisers.
 
11.9The Agents shall be obliged to perform such duties and only such duties as are herein specifically set forth, and no implied duties or obligations shall be read into this Agreement against the Agents. No Agent shall be under any obligation to take any action hereunder which it expects will result in any expense or liability of such Agent, the payment of which within a reasonable time is not, in its opinion, assured to it. The obligations of the Agents hereunder are several and not joint.
         
 
11.10       The Agents, their affiliates and their respective officers and employees, in their individual or any other capacity, may become the owner of, or acquire any interest in, any Notes with the same rights that the Agents would have it they were not the Agents hereunder.
 
 
 
12.         
CHANGE IN AGENTS
 
12.1 Each of the Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Exchange Agent and Transfer Agent in its capacity as such may be removed at any time by the giving to it of at least 30 days written notice to that effect signed on behalf of the Issuer specifying the date on which such removal shall become effective. Each of the Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Exchange Agent and Transfer Agent may at any time resign by giving at least 30 days written notice (unless the Issuer agrees to accept less notice) to that effect to the Issuer specifying the date on which such resignation shall become effective. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such resignation or removal shall take effect within 30 days before or after any due date for payment of any Notes or before a new Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Exchange Agent and Transfer Agent, as the case may be, shall have been appointed by the Issuer as hereinafter provided, and such new Agent shall have accepted such appointment. Any change in any Agent shall be notified by the Issuer to the other Agent(s).
        
 
12.2The Issuer agrees with the Fiscal Agent that if, by the day falling 10 days before the expiry of any notice under Clause 12.1 above, the Issuer has not appointed a replacement Fiscal Agent, then the Fiscal Agent shall be entitled, on behalf of the Issuer, to appoint in its place any reputable financial institution of good standing and the Issuer shall not unreasonably object to such appointment.
        
 
12.3Upon the effectiveness of the appointment of any successor Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Exchange Agent and Transfer Agent, as the case may be, pursuant to Clause 12.1, the Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Exchange Agent and Transfer Agent so removed shall cease to be a Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Exchange Agent and Transfer Agent, as the case may be, hereunder. Prior to the effectiveness of such appointment, the Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Exchange Agent and Transfer Agent shall hold all moneys deposited with it or held by it hereunder in respect of the Notes to the order of the respective successor Fiscal Agent, Registrar, Exchange Agent and Transfer Agent.
         
 
13.         
NOTICES
 
Notices shall be in writing (including by facsimile) and addressed to the relevant party hereto as follows:
 
 
Citigroup Inc.
153 East 53 Street, 5 floor
rd
th
New York, New York 10043
Attention: Treasury Department
Telephone: 212-559-3553
Telefax: 212-793-5629
 
 
Citibank, N.A.
Citigroup Centre
Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB
Attn: Agency & Trust, Bond Desk
 
Fiscal Agent Telefax: +353 1 622 2210
Registrar Telefax: +353 1 506 0339
Exchange Agent Telefax: +353 1 247 6348
 
or at any other address of which any of the foregoing shall have notified the others, and shall be deemed to have been given when received by the relevant party.
 
14.
         
APPLICABLE LAW, PLACE OF JURISDICTION
 
 
 
14.1         This Agreement shall be subject to New York law.
 
14.2         The non-exclusive place for all proceedings arising out of this agreement shall be New York.
 
15.
         
MISCELLANEOUS
 
15.1         The Fiscal Agent agrees to perform its obligations hereunder through its London Branch to the extent that this is necessary or appropriate in order to make payments to DTC or DTC Participants in accordance with the Conditions.
 
15.2         The Fiscal Agent shall promptly advise the Issuer of any notice, including any notice declaring Notes due, which it may receive pursuant to the Conditions.
 
15.3         Should any of the provisions of this Agreement be or become invalid, in whole or in part, the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in force. Invalid provisions shall, according to the intent and purpose of this Agreement, be replaced by such valid provisions which in their economic effect come as close as legally possible to that of the invalid provisions.
 
15.4         This Agreement may be signed in counterparts.
 
15.5         Terms not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Underwriting Agreement or the Conditions, as the case may be.
 
15.6         If there is any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Indenture shall control.
 
16           
WHOLE AGREEMENT
 
 
 
[remainder of page intentionally left blank]
 
 
 
 
This Agreement has been entered into effective the date stated at the beginning hereof.
 
 
CITIGROUP INC.
 
 
/s/ Martin A. Waters
Assistant Treasurer
 
 
 
CITIBANK, N.A.
 
 
/s/ Stuart Sullivan
Vice President
 
 

 
June 29, 2012
 
Citigroup Inc.
399 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10043
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
I am an Associate General CounselCapital Markets of Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the $500,000,000 6.250% Notes due June 29, 2017 of the Company (the Securities) pursuant to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-172562) (the Registration Statement) and the prospectus dated May 12, 2011 (the Base Prospectus), as supplemented by the preliminary prospectus supplement dated June 24, 2012 (the Preliminary Supplement) and the final prospectus supplement dated June 25, 2012 (the Final Supplement ). The Securities were issued pursuant to the senior debt indenture dated as of March 15, 1987, as amended (the Indenture), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as successor trustee (the Trustee).
Company). I refer to the offering of NZ
 
I have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of such documents, corporate records, certificates of public officials and other instruments and have conducted such other investigations of fact and law as I have deemed necessary or advisable for the purposes of this opinion. In such examination, I have assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures (other than those of officers of the Company), the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to me as certified or photostatic copies and the authenticity of the original of such copies.
 
Upon the basis of the foregoing, I am of the opinion that the Securities have been validly authorized and are validly issued and outstanding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture (subject, as to enforcement, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors rights generally and to general principles of equity regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
 
 
Citigroup Inc.
Page 2
 
My opinion is limited to matters governed by the Federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (including the applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and the reported judicial decisions interpreting the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and such applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution).
 
I consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.01 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 29, 2012 and to the reference to my name in the Base Prospectus under the heading Legal Matters and in the Preliminary Supplement and Final Supplement under the heading Legal Opinions. In giving such consent, I do not thereby admit that I come within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.
 
 
 


