FILE:CBS/CBS-8K-20030515114305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): May 9, 2003 VIACOM INC. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9553 04-2949533 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer jurisdiction of incorporation) Identification Number) 1515 Broadway, New York, New York 10036 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 258-6000 --------------
Item 5. Other Events. On May 9, 2003, Viacom Inc. ("Viacom" or the "Registrant") and Viacom International Inc. ("Viacom International") entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement," a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1) with Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and each of the other underwriters named in Schedule I thereto (collectively, the "Underwriters"). On May 14, 2003, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, Viacom issued and sold and the Underwriters purchased $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Viacom's 4.625% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Senior Notes") and $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Viacom's 5.50% Senior Debentures due 2033 (the "Senior Debentures" and, together with the Senior Notes, the "Senior Securities"), at public offering prices of 99.273% and 99.201% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes and the Senior Debentures, respectively. The offering yielded aggregate proceeds to Viacom of $738,486,000, after payment of the underwriting discount, but before payment of expenses related to the offering. Forms of the Senior Notes and the Senior Debentures, including the guarantees endorsed thereon, are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively. The Senior Securities were (i) registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-52728) filed on December 26, 2000, and a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-62052) filed on May 31, 2001, which Registration Statement also constituted Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-52728), and the amendment to such Registration Statements filed on June 13, 2001, and (ii) issued under an Indenture, dated as of June 22, 2001 (the "Indenture") among Viacom, Viacom International, as guarantor, and The Bank of New York, as trustee. The Indenture has been previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Viacom's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 3, 2001. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 1.1 Underwriting Agreement, dated May 9, 2003, among Viacom, Viacom International, Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and each of the underwriters named in Schedule I thereto. 4.1 Form of 4.625% Senior Notes due 2018, including the form of guarantee endorsed thereon. 4.2 Form of 5.50% Senior Debentures due 2033, including the form of guarantee endorsed thereon.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. VIACOM INC. Date: May 15, 2003 By: /s/ Michael D. Fricklas --------------------------------- Name: Michael D. Fricklas Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 1.1 Underwriting Agreement, dated May 9, 2003, among Viacom, Viacom International, Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and each of the underwriters named in Schedule I thereto. 4.1 Form of 4.625% Senior Notes due 2018, including the form of guarantee endorsed thereon. 4.2 Form of 5.50% Senior Debentures due 2033, including the form of guarantee endorsed thereon.

Exhibit 1.1
VIACOM INC. VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC. 4.625% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2018 5.50% SENIOR DEBENTURES DUE 2033 UNDERWRITING AGREEMENT New York, New York May 9, 2003 Banc of America Securities LLC Bank of America Corporate Center 100 North Tryon Street Charlotte, North Carolina 28255 - -and- Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013 As Representatives of the several Underwriters Ladies and Gentlemen: Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), confirms its agreement, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, with Banc of America Securities LLC ("Banc of America") and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. ("Citigroup") and each of the other underwriters named in Schedule I hereto (collectively, the "Underwriters," which term shall also include any underwriter substituted hereinafter as provided in Section 10 hereof), for whom Banc of America and Citigroup are acting as representatives (in such capacity, the "Representatives"), with respect to the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective principal amount set forth in Schedule I of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Notes") and $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.50% Senior Debentures due 2033 (the "Debentures"), both guaranteed on an unsecured basis (the "Guarantees") by Viacom International Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Guarantor"). The Notes, the Debentures and the Guarantees are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Securities". The Securities are to be issued under an indenture dated as of June 22, 2001 among the Company, the Guarantor and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee") (as so amended and supplemented from time to time, the "Indenture"). Certain terms of the
Securities will be established pursuant to resolutions adopted by the Company dated May 9, 2003 pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture. SECTION 1. Representations and Warranties. The Company and the Guarantor jointly and severally represent and warrant to the Underwriters, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Time (as defined below), as follows: (a) Registration Statement and the Prospectus. The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a (i) registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-52728) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), and (ii) registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-62052), which also constitutes Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-52728) under the 1933 Act (together, the "Registration Statement"), in respect of, among other things, the Securities. The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act. If the Company files a registration statement with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462(b) of the rules and regulations under the 1933 Act, then all references to the Registration Statement shall also be deemed to include that Rule 462(b) registration statement. The Registration Statement has been declared effective by the Commission, and the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "1939 Act"). The prospectus included in the Registration Statement is hereinafter referred to as the "Base Prospectus." The Base Prospectus, as it is to be supplemented by a prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities pursuant to Rule 424 under the 1933 Act ("Rule 424") is hereinafter referred to as the "Prospectus." The term "Registration Statement" and "Prospectus" shall be deemed to include all amendments to the date hereof and all documents incorporated by reference therein. Any reference herein to the terms "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus and the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), after the date of this Underwriting Agreement, or the issue date of the Base Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be, deemed to be incorporated therein by reference. The Registration Statement and the Indenture, at the time and date the Registration Statement was declared effective by the Commission, complied, in all material respects, with the applicable provisions of the 1933 Act and the 1939 Act, respectively, and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder. The Registration Statement, at the time and date it was declared effective by the Commission, did not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The Prospectus, at the date it is filed with, or transmitted for filing to, the Commission pursuant to Rule 424 and at the Closing Time, will comply, in all material respects, with the applicable provisions of the 1933 Act and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that the Company makes no representations or warranties as to (i) that part of the Registration Statement which shall constitute the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification (Form T-1) of the Trustee under the 1939 Act or (ii) the information contained in or omitted from the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any amendment thereof or supplement thereto in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the
Company in writing by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus. (b) Incorporated Documents. The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, when they became effective or at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply, as the case may be, in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1934 Act Regulations"). (c) Independent Accountants. The accountants who certified the financial statements and any supporting schedules thereto included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus are independent public accountants as required by the 1933 Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1933 Act Regulations"). (d) Financial Statements. The financial statements of the Company and CBS Corporation included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, together with the related schedules and notes, as well as those financial statements, schedules and notes of any other entity included therein, present fairly the financial position of the Company and CBS Corporation at the dates indicated, and the statement of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and CBS Corporation for the periods specified. Such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved. The supporting schedules, if any, included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus present fairly in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein. The capitalization table and the ratio of earnings to fixed charges included in the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in the Registration Statement and Prospectus. In addition, any pro forma financial statements of the Company and CBS Corporation and their subsidiaries and the related notes thereto included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein, have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements and have been properly compiled on the bases described therein, and the assumptions used in the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions and circumstances referred to therein. (e) No Material Adverse Change in Business. Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, (A) there has been no material adverse change in the financial condition, results of operations or business affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"), and (B) there have been no material transactions entered into by the Company other than transactions contemplated by the Registration Statement and Prospectus or transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. (f) Good Standing. The Company and the Guarantor have been duly organized and are validly existing as corporations in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and have corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate their respective properties and to conduct their respective businesses as described in the Prospectus and to enter into and perform
their respective obligations under, or as contemplated under, this Underwriting Agreement. The Company and the Guarantor are duly qualified as foreign corporations to transact business and are in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failures to so qualify or be in good standing would not in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect. (g) Good Standing of Designated Subsidiaries. Each "significant subsidiary" of the Company (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated under the 1933 Act), if any, has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failures to so qualify or be in good standing would not in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect. (h) Capitalization. All of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Guarantor have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable, and are wholly owned by the Company, free and clear of any lien, adverse claim, security interest, equity or other encumbrance except as described in the Prospectus and except for such liens, adverse claims, security interests, equity or other encumbrances that are immaterial to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole. (i) Authorization of Agreements. This Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantor. (j) Authorization of the Securities. The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and the Guarantor, as the case may be, for issuance and sale pursuant to this Underwriting Agreement. The Securities, when issued and authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the consideration therefor specified in this Underwriting Agreement, will have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company and the Guarantor, as the case may be, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, enforceable against the Company and the Guarantor, as the case may be, in accordance with their terms, except as (i) the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and (ii) rights of acceleration, if any, and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). (k) Authorization of the Indenture. The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantor and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Trustee thereunder, constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company and the Guarantor, enforceable against the Company and the Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except as (i) the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization,
moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and (ii) rights of acceleration, if any, and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). (l) Description of the Securities and the Indenture. The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the statements relating thereto contained in the Prospectus. (m) Absence of Defaults and Conflicts. The issue and sale of the Securities and compliance by the Company and the Guarantor with all of the provisions of the Securities, the Indenture and this Underwriting Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and therein do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event (as defined below) under, any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the assets, properties or operations of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective subsidiaries is subject, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective subsidiaries or any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective subsidiaries or any of their assets, properties or operations, except, in any such case, for such conflicts, breaches or violations as would not individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect. As used herein, a "Repayment Event" means any event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective subsidiaries. (n) Absence of Proceedings. There is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or to the knowledge of the Company or the Guarantor threatened, against or affecting the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective subsidiaries which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (other than as stated therein), or which individually or in the aggregate would result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which would materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated under the Prospectus, this Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture or the performance by the Company or the Guarantor of their respective obligations hereunder and thereunder. (o) Disclosure. There are no contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits thereto which have not been so described and filed as required. (p) Absence of Further Requirements. No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental
authority or agency, domestic or foreign, is necessary or required for the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Company or the Guarantor of this Underwriting Agreement or for the performance by the Company or the Guarantor of the transactions contemplated under the Prospectus, this Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture, except as set forth herein and except such as have been already made, obtained or rendered, as applicable, and as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriters and except where the failure to obtain any such filing, authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree will not individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect. (q) Investment Company Act. The Company is not, and upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act"). (r) Officer's Certificates. Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their subsidiaries delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, to each Underwriter as to matters covered thereby. SECTION 2. Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing. (a) Securities. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to issue and sell to each of the Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of 98.673% of the principal amount thereof in the case of the Notes and 98.326% of the principal amount thereof in the case of the Debentures, the aggregate principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name on Schedule I hereto plus any additional principal amount of the Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof. (b) Payment. Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of, the Securities shall be made at the offices of the Company, 1515 Broadway, New York, New York 10036 or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company, at 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on May 14, 2003, (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10) or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called the "Closing Time"). Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representatives, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities which it has severally agreed to purchase. Each of the Representatives, individually and not as representatives of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been
received by the Closing Time, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of the Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), Clearstream Banking Luxembourg, societe anonyme, ("Clearstream Luxembourg") or EuroclearBank S.A./N.V. ("Euroclear") unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct. (c) Restrictions on Resale. Each Underwriter agrees that it will not offer, sell or deliver any of the Securities, directly or indirectly, or distribute the Prospectus or any other offering material relating to the Securities, in or from any jurisdiction except under circumstances that will, to the best knowledge and belief of such Underwriter after reasonable investigation, result in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations thereof and which will not impose any obligations on the Company except as set forth in this Underwriting Agreement. Each Underwriter represents and agrees that (i) it has not offered or sold any Securities to persons in the United Kingdom and until six months after the Closing Time, it will not offer or sell any Securities to persons in the United Kingdom, except to persons whose ordinary activities involve them in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments (as principal or agent) for the purposes of their businesses or otherwise in circumstances which have not resulted and will not result in an offer to the public in the United Kingdom, within the meaning of the Public Offers of Securities Regulations 1995, (ii) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "FSMA")) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of any Securities in circumstances which section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Company, and (iii) it has complied with and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom. Each Underwriter acknowledges that offers and sales of the Securities in Germany are subject to the restrictions provided in the German Securities Prospectus Act (Wertpapier-Verkaufsprospektgesetz) with respect to Euro-securities (Euro-Wertpapiere); in particular, the Securities may not be offered in Germany by way of public promotion. Each Underwriter represents and agrees that it has not, directly or indirectly, offered or sold and will not, directly or indirectly, offer or sell in The Netherlands any Securities other than to persons who trade or invest in securities in the conduct of a profession or business (which include banks, stockbrokers, insurance companies, pension funds, other institutional investors and finance companies and treasury departments of large enterprises) or otherwise in compliance with any other applicable laws or regulations of The Netherlands. Each Underwriter agrees that it has not directly or indirectly offered or sold, and it will not directly or indirectly offer or sell, any Securities in Japan or for the benefit of any resident of Japan (which term as used in this paragraph means any person resident in Japan, including any corporation or other entity organized under the laws of Japan) or to others for re-offering or re-sale, directly or indirectly, in Japan or for the benefit of a resident of Japan, except pursuant to an
exemption from the registration requirements of, and in compliance with, the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan and any other applicable laws, regulations and guidelines of Japan. SECTION 3. Covenants of the Company and the Guarantor. The Company and the Guarantor jointly and severally covenant with each Underwriter, as follows: (a) Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests. The Company and the Guarantor, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430A of the 1933 Act Regulations, Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations and Rule 462(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations, if and as applicable, and will notify the Representatives immediately, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company and the Guarantor will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file the Prospectus. The Company and the Guarantor will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment. (b) Filing of Amendments. Until the Closing Time, the Company and the Guarantor will advise the Representatives promptly of their intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object. (c) Delivery of Registration Statements. The Company and the Guarantor have furnished or, if requested in writing by the Representatives, will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T. (d) Delivery of Prospectuses. The Company and the Guarantor will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered
under the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T. (e) Continued Compliance with Securities Laws. The Company and the Guarantor will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Underwriting Agreement and in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus. If at any time when the Prospectus is required by the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company or the Guarantor, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company and the Guarantor will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b), such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement or the Prospectus comply with such requirements, and the Company and the Guarantor will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request. (f) Blue Sky Qualifications. The Company and the Guarantor will use their best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date hereof; provided, however, that the Company and the Guarantor shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. In each jurisdiction in which the Securities have been so qualified, the Company and the Guarantor will file such statements and reports as may be required by the laws of such jurisdiction to continue such qualification in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date hereof. (g) Earnings Statement. The Company and the Guarantor will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
(h) DTC, Clearstream Luxembourg and Euroclear. The Company and the Guarantor will cooperate with the Representatives and use their reasonable best efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of DTC, Clearstream Luxembourg and Euroclear. (i) Use of Proceeds. The Company and the Guarantor will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds". (j) Listing. The Company and the Guarantor will use their reasonable best efforts to effect the listing of the Securities on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange by the Closing Time or as soon as practicable thereafter. (k) Restriction on Sale of Securities. Between the date of this Underwriting Agreement and the Closing Time, neither the Company nor the Guarantor will, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, directly or indirectly, issue, sell, offer or contract to sell, grant any option for the sale of, any securities of the Company or the Guarantor substantially similar to the Securities. (l) Reporting Requirements. The Company and the Guarantor, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations. SECTION 4. Payment of Expenses. The Company and the Guarantor will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Underwriting Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and any schedules or exhibits and any document incorporated therein by reference) as originally filed and of each amendment or supplement thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Underwriting Agreement, any agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the Securities and any certificates for the Securities to the Underwriters, including any transfer taxes and any stamp or other duties payable upon the sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters and any charges of DTC, Clearstream Luxembourg and Euroclear in connection therewith, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors or agents (including transfer agents and registrars), as well as the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (v) the qualification of the Securities under state securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation, printing and delivery of the Blue Sky Survey, and any amendment thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) the fees charged by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations for the rating of the Securities, (viii) any fees and expenses payable in connection with the initial and continued listing of the Securities on any securities exchange, including the
Luxembourg Stock Exchange, and (ix) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by NASD Regulation, Inc. (the "NASD") of the terms of the sale of the Securities. SECTION 5. Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations. The obligations of the Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities under this Underwriting Agreement are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantor contained in Section 1 hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective subsidiaries delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company and the Guarantor of their respective covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions: (a) Effectiveness of Registration Statement. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. A prospectus containing information relating to the description of the Securities, the specific method of distribution and similar matters shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424. (b) Opinion of Counsel for Company and the Guarantor. At the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinions, dated as of the Closing Time, of Shearman & Sterling, outside counsel for the Company and the Guarantor, and the general counsel to the Company and the Guarantor (or, if such general counsel is not available, an associate or deputy general counsel to the Company and the Guarantor that practices in the area of corporate and securities laws) in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, with respect to such matters as the Underwriters may reasonably request. (c) Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters. At the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, with respect to such matters as the Underwriters may reasonably request. (d) Officers' Certificate. At the Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the financial condition, results of operations or business affairs of the Company, the Guarantor and their respective subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representatives shall have received a certificate of the President, an Executive Vice President, a Senior Vice President or a Vice President of the Company and the Guarantor and of the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Company and the Guarantor, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1 are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Time, (iii) the Company and the Guarantor have complied with all agreements and satisfied all
conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Time, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted, are pending or, to the best of such officer's knowledge, are threatened by the Commission. (e) Accountant's Comfort Letter. At the time of the execution of this Underwriting Agreement, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus. (f) Bring-down Comfort Letter. At the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP a letter, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (e) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Time. (g) Ratings. On the date hereof and prior to the Closing Time, there shall not have occurred any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities of the Company or the Guarantor by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the 1933 Act), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities of the Company or the Guarantor (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating). (h) Approval of Listing. At the Closing Time, an application to have the Securities approved for listing on the Luxembourg Exchange, shall have been filed by the Company. (i) No Objection. If the Registration Statement for the offering of the Securities has been filed with the NASD for review, the NASD shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements. (j) Additional Documents. At the Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company and the Guarantor in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters. SECTION 6. Indemnification. (a) Indemnification of Underwriters. The Company and the Guarantor jointly and severally agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact included in the Base Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 6(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company and the Guarantor; and (iii) against any and all expense as reasonably incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives), in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above; provided, however, that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or the Base Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). (b) Indemnification of Company and the Guarantor, Directors and Officers. Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and the Guarantor, their directors, each of their officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or the Guarantor within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or the Base Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company or the Guarantor by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such Base Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). (c) Actions Against Parties; Notification. Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against
it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representatives, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; provided, however, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party. (d) Settlement Without Consent if Failure to Reimburse. If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. SECTION 7. Contribution. If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Underwriting Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantor, on the one hand, and of the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Securities under this Underwriting Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of such Securities (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth in the table on the cover page of the Prospectus. The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, the Guarantor or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company, the Guarantor and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule I hereto, and not joint. SECTION 8. Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery. All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Underwriting Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective subsidiaries
submitted pursuant hereto shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or controlling person, or by or on behalf of the Company, and shall survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. SECTION 9. Termination. (a) Underwriting Agreement. The Representatives may terminate this Underwriting Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to the Closing Time, if (i) there has been, since the time of execution of this Underwriting Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the financial condition, results of operations or business affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or, if the Securities include securities denominated or payable in, or indexed to, one or more foreign or composite currencies, in the international financial markets, or any new outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any material change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the reasonable judgment of the Representatives, impracticable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities, or (iii) trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by either of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or any other governmental authority, or (iv) a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities or, if the Securities include securities denominated or payable in, or indexed to, one or more foreign or composite currencies, by the relevant authorities in the related foreign country or countries. (b) Liabilities. If this Underwriting Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section 9, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 and this paragraph 9(b) shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect. SECTION 10. Default by One or More of the Underwriters. If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at the Closing Time to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Underwriting Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), then the Representatives shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representatives shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then: (a) if the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth on Schedule I hereto, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective
underwriting obligations hereunder bear to the underwriting obligations of all non-defaulting Underwriters, or (b) if the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Defaulted Securities exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth on Schedule I hereto, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such non-defaulting Underwriters do not purchase all the Securities, this Underwriting Agreement will terminate without liability to any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company. No action taken pursuant to this Section 10 shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default. In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Underwriting Agreement, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. SECTION 11. Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to Banc of America Securities LLC, Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, NC1-007-08-17, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255, Attention: High Grade Capital Markets Transaction Management and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Attention: Tristram Collins; and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at Viacom Inc., 1515 Broadway, New York, New York 10036, attention of General Counsel. SECTION 12. Parties. This Underwriting Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company, the Representatives and the other Underwriters and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Underwriting Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Underwriting Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Underwriting Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase. SECTION 13. GOVERNING LAW. THIS UNDERWRITING AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS THEREOF.
SECTION 14. Effect of Headings. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. SECTION 15. Counterparts. This Underwriting Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were on the same instrument.
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this Underwriting Agreement, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement among each of the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantor in accordance with its terms. Very truly yours, VIACOM INC. By: /s/ Robert G. Freedline ----------------------- Name: Robert G. Freedline Title: Senior Vice President and Treasuer VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC. By: /s/ Robert G. Freedline ----------------------- Name: Robert G. Freedline Title: Vice President and Treasuer CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED, as of the date first above written: BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC By: /s/ Peter J. Carbone -------------------- Name: Peter J. Carbone Title: Vice President CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. By: /s/ Tristram Collins -------------------- Name: Tristram Collins Title: Managing Director For itself and the other several Underwriters named in Schedule I to the foregoing Underwriting Agreement.
Schedule I

Exhibit 4.1
NOTE Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein. This Security is a global Security within the meaning of the Indenture (as defined below) and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture. Unless and until this certificate is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture applicable to such exchange, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
VIACOM INC. 4.625% Senior Notes due 2018 Unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of principal of and interest by VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Viacom Inc.) $300,000,000 CUSIP: 925524 AU 4 Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $300,000,000 on May 15, 2018 at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon on November 15, 2003 and semi-annually in arrears thereafter, on May 15 and November 15 of each year (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), from May 14, 2003, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 4.625% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be May 1 and November 1, as the case may be, preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such Defaulted Interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided however, that each installment of interest and principal on this Security may at the Company's option be paid by check to the payee or in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States. Any payment of principal or interest required to be made on a day that is not a Business Day need not be made on such day, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest shall accrue as a result of such delayed payment. For purposes of this Security, "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in The City of New York, is not a day on which banking institutions are generally authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. General. This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), unlimited in aggregate principal amount, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of June 22, 2001 among the Company, Viacom International Inc., as guarantor (the "Guarantor") and The Bank of New York, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture) (the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and the respective
resolutions of the Company's board of directors or resolutions pursuant to the authority of the board of directors, an Officer's Certificate and/or indentures supplemental thereto, as the case may be, reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of a series designated as 4.625% Senior Notes due 2018, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000. This Security is a global Security representing $300,000,000 of the Securities. Authorized Denominations. The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of not less than $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. Book-Entry Security. This Security is a "book-entry" Security and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"). Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Security will be held by DTC or its nominee, and beneficial interests will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of DTC or its nominee in denominations of not less than $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. As long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal of and interest on this Security by wire transfer of immediately available funds to DTC or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, upon the maturity of this Security, the principal, together with accrued interest thereon, will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of this Security at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose or such other locations provided in the Indenture. Event of Default. If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Sinking Fund. The Securities of this series are not subject to any sinking fund. Optional Redemption. The Securities of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). The term "Make-Whole Amount" means, the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the Redemption Date of principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) that would have been payable if redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semiannual basis, the remaining principal and interest at the Reinvestment Rate (determined on the third Business Day preceding the date notice of redemption is given) from the dates on which the principal and interest would have been payable if the redemption had not been made, to the Redemption Date, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the Securities being redeemed. The term "Reinvestment Rate" means 0.20% plus the arithmetic mean of the yields under the heading "Week Ending" published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (or any comparable successor publication) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the maturity of the principal being redeemed or paid. If no maturity exactly corresponds to the maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the maturity will be so calculated and the Reinvestment Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated on a straight-line basis, rounding to the nearest month. The most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount will be used for purposes of calculating the Reinvestment 2
Rate. The Make-Whole Amount will be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company. If the Company fails to make the appointment at least 45 business days prior to the date of redemption, or if the institution is unwilling or unable to make the calculation, the calculation will be made by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee. If the Reinvestment Rate is not available as described above, the Reinvestment Rate will be calculated by interpolation or extrapolation of comparable rates selected by the independent investment banking institution. In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Securities of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities of this series are listed or, if the Securities of this series are not listed on a national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem to be fair and appropriate; provided that no Securities of this series of $1,000 in principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Security in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Security. Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security. Modification and Waivers; Obligations of the Company Absolute. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company and the Guarantor with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holders of this Security and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security. As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; provided, however, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein. 3
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. Registration of Transfer or Exchange. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security will be registered on the Security Register of the Company upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee or any agent of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. This Security is a global Security. If at any time, a Depositary is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, then the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Defined Terms. All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. Governing Law. This Security shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by or on behalf of The Bank of New York, as Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. 4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. Dated: May 14, 2003 VIACOM INC., as Issuer By: /s/ Richard J. Bressler ________________________ Attest: /s/ George Nelson ___________________________ Authorized Signature 5
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities of a series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee By: /s/ Julie Salovitch-Miller _________________________ Authorized Signatory Dated: May 14, 2003
GUARANTEE OF VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC. FOR VALUE RECEIVED, VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Guarantor", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to in the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed), hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to the holder of the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest (including, in case of default, interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on overdue interest), if any, on this Security, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at Stated Maturity, upon redemption, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise, according to the terms thereof and of the Indenture referred to therein. In case of the failure of Viacom Inc. or any successor thereto (herein called the "Company") punctually to pay any such principal or interest, the Guarantor hereby agrees to cause any such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at Stated Maturity, upon redemption, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise, as if such payment were made by the Company. The Guarantor hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be as if it were principal debtor and not merely surety, and shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of the identity of the Company, the validity, regularity or enforceability of this Security or said Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by the Holder of this Security with respect to any provisions thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company or any action to enforce the same, or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor. The Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that this Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in this Security and in this Guarantee. The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of this Security against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of this Guarantee or the Indenture referred to in this Security; provided, however, that the Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of and interest on all Securities of the series of which the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed constitutes a part shall have been indefeasibly paid in full. The Indenture provides that in the event that this Guarantee would constitute or result in a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of, or result in a violation of, any United States federal, or applicable United States state, fraudulent transfer or conveyance or similar law, then the liability of the Guarantor hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to eliminate such fraudulent transfer or conveyance or violation under the applicable fraudulent transfer or conveyance or similar law. If the Trustee or the Holder of the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company or the Guarantor, or any custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official acting in relation to the Company or the Guarantor, any amount paid to the Trustee or such Holder in respect of the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed, this Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. The Guarantor further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that, as between the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extant under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
All terms used in this Guarantee that are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. This Guarantee shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. Subject to the next following paragraph, the Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened precedent to the creation and issuance of this Guarantee and to constitute the same valid obligation of the Guarantor have been done and performed and have happened in due compliance with all applicable laws. This Guarantee shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed has been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to in this Security. 2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has caused this instrument to be duly executed. Dated: May 14, 2003 VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC., as Guarantor By: /s/ Richard J. Bressler __________________________ Attest: /s/ George Nelson _________________________ Authorized Signature 3

Exhibit 4.2 DEBENTURE Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein. This Security is a global Security within the meaning of the Indenture (as defined below) and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture. Unless and until this certificate is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture applicable to such exchange, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
VIACOM INC. 5.50% Senior Debentures due 2033 Unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of principal of and interest by VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Viacom Inc.) $450,000,000 CUSIP: 925524 AV 2 Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $450,000,000 on May 15, 2033 at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon on November 15, 2003 and semi-annually in arrears thereafter, on May 15 and November 15 of each year (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), from May 14, 2003, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 5.50% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be May 1 and November 1, as the case may be, preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such Defaulted Interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided however, that each installment of interest and principal on this Security may at the Company's option be paid by check to the payee or in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States. Any payment of principal or interest required to be made on a day that is not a Business Day need not be made on such day, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest shall accrue as a result of such delayed payment. For purposes of this Security, "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in The City of New York, is not a day on which banking institutions are generally authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. General. This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), unlimited in aggregate principal amount, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of June 22, 2001 among the Company, Viacom International Inc., as guarantor (the "Guarantor") and The Bank of New York, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture) (the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and the respective
resolutions of the Company's board of directors or resolutions pursuant to the authority of the board of directors, an Officer's Certificate and/or indentures supplemental thereto, as the case may be, reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of a series designated as 5.50% Senior Debentures due 2033, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $450,000,000. This Security is a global Security representing $450,000,000 of the Securities. Authorized Denominations. The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of not less than $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. Book-Entry Security. This Security is a "book-entry" Security and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"). Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Security will be held by DTC or its nominee, and beneficial interests will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of DTC or its nominee in denominations of not less than $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. As long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal of and interest on this Security by wire transfer of immediately available funds to DTC or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, upon the maturity of this Security, the principal, together with accrued interest thereon, will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of this Security at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose or such other locations provided in the Indenture. Event of Default. If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Sinking Fund. The Securities of this series are not subject to any sinking fund. Optional Redemption. The Securities of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). The term "Make-Whole Amount" means, the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the Redemption Date of principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) that would have been payable if redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semiannual basis, the remaining principal and interest at the Reinvestment Rate (determined on the third Business Day preceding the date notice of redemption is given) from the dates on which the principal and interest would have been payable if the redemption had not been made, to the Redemption Date, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the Securities being redeemed. The term "Reinvestment Rate" means 0.20% plus the arithmetic mean of the yields under the heading "Week Ending" published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (or any comparable successor publication) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the maturity of the principal being redeemed or paid. If no maturity exactly corresponds to the maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the maturity will be so calculated and the Reinvestment Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated on a straight-line basis, rounding to the nearest month. The most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount will be used for purposes of calculating the Reinvestment 2
Rate. The Make-Whole Amount will be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company. If the Company fails to make the appointment at least 45 business days prior to the date of redemption, or if the institution is unwilling or unable to make the calculation, the calculation will be made by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee. If the Reinvestment Rate is not available as described above, the Reinvestment Rate will be calculated by interpolation or extrapolation of comparable rates selected by the independent investment banking institution. In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Securities of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities of this series are listed or, if the Securities of this series are not listed on a national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem to be fair and appropriate; provided that no Securities of this series of $1,000 in principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Security in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Security. Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security. Modification and Waivers; Obligations of the Company Absolute. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company and the Guarantor with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holders of this Security and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security. As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; provided, however, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein. 3
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. Registration of Transfer or Exchange. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security will be registered on the Security Register of the Company upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee or any agent of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. This Security is a global Security. If at any time, a Depositary is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, then the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Defined Terms. All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. Governing Law. This Security shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by or on behalf of The Bank of New York, as Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. 4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. Dated: May 14, 2003 VIACOM INC., as Issuer By: /s/ Richard J. Bressler ________________________ Attest: /s/ George Nelson ___________________________ Authorized Signature 5
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities of a series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee By: /s/ Julie Salovitch-Miller _________________________ Authorized Signatory Dated: May 14, 2003
GUARANTEE OF VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC. FOR VALUE RECEIVED, VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Guarantor", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to in the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed), hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to the holder of the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest (including, in case of default, interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on overdue interest), if any, on this Security, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at Stated Maturity, upon redemption, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise, according to the terms thereof and of the Indenture referred to therein. In case of the failure of Viacom Inc. or any successor thereto (herein called the "Company") punctually to pay any such principal or interest, the Guarantor hereby agrees to cause any such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at Stated Maturity, upon redemption, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise, as if such payment were made by the Company. The Guarantor hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be as if it were principal debtor and not merely surety, and shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of the identity of the Company, the validity, regularity or enforceability of this Security or said Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by the Holder of this Security with respect to any provisions thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company or any action to enforce the same, or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor. The Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that this Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in this Security and in this Guarantee. The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of this Security against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of this Guarantee or the Indenture referred to in this Security; provided, however, that the Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of and interest on all Securities of the series of which the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed constitutes a part shall have been indefeasibly paid in full. The Indenture provides that in the event that this Guarantee would constitute or result in a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of, or result in a violation of, any United States federal, or applicable United States state, fraudulent transfer or conveyance or similar law, then the liability of the Guarantor hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to eliminate such fraudulent transfer or conveyance or violation under the applicable fraudulent transfer or conveyance or similar law. If the Trustee or the Holder of the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company or the Guarantor, or any custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official acting in relation to the Company or the Guarantor, any amount paid to the Trustee or such Holder in respect of the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed, this Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. The Guarantor further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that, as between the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extant under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
All terms used in this Guarantee that are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. This Guarantee shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. Subject to the next following paragraph, the Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened precedent to the creation and issuance of this Guarantee and to constitute the same valid obligation of the Guarantor have been done and performed and have happened in due compliance with all applicable laws. This Guarantee shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Security upon which this Guarantee is endorsed has been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to in this Security. 2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has caused this instrument to be duly executed. Dated: May 14, 2003 VIACOM INTERNATIONAL INC., as Guarantor By: /s/ Richard J. Bressler __________________________ Attest: /s/ George Nelson ________________________ Authorized Signature 3


