FILE:CBS/CBS-8K-20051018150805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 18, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 258-6000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8 - Other Events
 
 
On October 18, 2005, the Company announced that it now expects its transaction to separate the Company into two publicly traded entities will likely be completed by the end of 2005. The Company previously indicated the transaction was likely to be completed in the first quarter of 2006. A copy of the related press release, dated October 18, 2005, is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: October 18, 2005
 
 
-3-
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
VIACOM INC. ANNOUNCES UPDATED TIMING OF ANTICIPATED SPLIT COMPLETION
 
NEW YORK, October 18, 2005Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA and VIA.B) announced today that it now expects its transaction to separate the Company into two publicly traded entities will likely be completed by the end of 2005. The Company previously indicated the transaction was likely to be completed in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Viacom is a leading global media company, with preeminent positions in broadcast and cable television, radio, outdoor advertising, and online. With programming that appeals to audiences in every demographic category across virtually all media, the company is a leader in the creation, promotion, and distribution of entertainment, news, sports, music, and comedy. Viacom's well-known brands include CBS, MTV, Nickelodeon, Nick at Nite, VH1, BET, Paramount Pictures, Infinity Broadcasting, Viacom Outdoor, UPN, TV Land, Comedy Central, CMT: Country Music Television, King World, Spike TV, Showtime, Paramount Parks, and Simon & Schuster. More information about Viacom and its businesses is available at www.viacom.com.
 
Earlier this year, the company announced it would be separating its businesses into two publicly traded companies. The new Viacom will include MTV Networks (MTV, VH1, Nickelodeon, Nick at Nite, Comedy Central, CMT: Country Music Television, Spike TV, TV Land and many other networks around the world), BET, Paramount Pictures, Paramount Home Entertainment and Famous Music. CBS Corporation will consist of the CBS Television Network, UPN, Infinity Broadcasting, Viacom Outdoor, Viacom Television Stations Group, Paramount Television, King World, Simon & Schuster, Showtime and Paramount Parks.
 
This press release contains information relating to the proposed separation of Viacom into two publicly traded companies. In connection with the proposed transaction, Viacom has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors and security holders are urged to read the Registration Statement and related materials that are filed with the SEC because they contain important information about the proposed transaction. Investors and security holders may obtain copies of these documents, and other
 
 
documents containing information about Viacom, without charge, at the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
and through Viacom's Investor Relations at Investor.Relations@viacom.com.
 
# # #
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


