FILE:CBS/CBS-8K-20070823130244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On August 17, 2007, CBS Corporation ("CBS" or the "Company") entered into a letter agreement with Leslie Moonves, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, amending the terms of his employment agreement dated July 1, 2004 and the amendment thereto dated June 14, 2005 (collectively, the "Employment Agreement"). The letter agreement is intended to amend the Employment Agreement to reflect the operation of CBS as a separate company following the separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Viacom") into CBS Corporation and new Viacom Inc. on December 31, 2005.
The letter agreement provides, among other things, that all references in the Employment Agreement to Viacom and CBSCO are deleted and replaced by CBS, except where the historical context of the provision requires the name of the company to be read as Viacom or CBSCO. Further, it states that the heads of CBS's four reportable segments and its business units and operating divisions report solely and directly to Mr. Moonves, unless he determines otherwise. The letter agreement also provides that during Mr. Moonves' employment term, and while he holds the title of President and Chief Executive Officer, the Company's Board of Directors shall nominate him for reelection to the Board at the expiration of each term of office and Mr. Moonves agrees to serve on the Board for each period for which he is elected. Finally, it stipulates that Mr. Moonves will be required to provide services to the Company in both Los Angeles and New York City and, notwithstanding his "Good Reason Termination" provision in the Employment Agreement, the requirement that Mr. Moonves renders service in New York City shall not be grounds for a "Good Reason Termination," and beginning with and for the calendar year 2007, the Company will fully reimburse Mr. Moonves respecting any net incremental New York state and local taxes and fees he incurs and such amount shall be reviewed and validated by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Except as expressly provided for in the letter agreement, Mr. Moonves' Employment Agreement has not been otherwise modified and will continue in full force and effect.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the letter agreement, which is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10. A copy of the employment agreement, dated July 1, 2004, between the Company and Leslie Moonves has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 22, 2004, and a copy of the letter agreement, dated June 14, 2005, amending the employment agreement, dated July 1, 2004, between the Company and Leslie Moonves has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 17, 2005.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following Exhibit is filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 23, 2007
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 10
Leslie Moonves
c/o CBS Corporation
51 West 52
nd
Street
New York, NY 10019-6188
 
Reference is made to your employment agreement with Viacom Inc. ("Viacom") dated July 1, 2004 (the "July 1, 2004 Agreement") and that certain amendment, dated June 14, 2005 (the "June 14, 2005 Amendment"). (Collectively, the July 1, 2004 Agreement and the June 14, 2005 Amendment are referred to as the "Employment Agreement"). On December 31, 2005 Viacom effected a separation and renamed itself CBS Corporation ("CBS"). This letter agreement is intended to amend the Employment Agreement to reflect the December 31, 2005 separation and the operation of CBS since the separation. All defined terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Employment Agreement unless defined differently herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CBS will provide you with detailed support for its calculation of a reimbursement to you. You shall promptly notify CBS of any New York State or Local taxing authority's assertion during an audit respecting any payment by CBS, respecting incremental New York State and Local taxes and fees, on your behalf or reimbursement to you, but you shall be under no obligation to defend against such claim by the New York State or Local taxing authority unless CBS requests, in writing, that you undertake the defense of such claim on behalf of CBS and at CBS's sole expense. In such event, CBS may elect to control the conduct to a final determination through counsel of its own choosing and at its sole expense, of any audit, administrative or judicial proceeding involving an asserted liability related to the incremental New York State and Local taxes and fees and you shall not settle, compromise or concede such incremental New York State and Local taxes and fees and shall cooperate with CBS in each phase of the contest.
 
The following provisions of Paragraph 3A of the June 14, 2005 Amendment, (v), (vi), (vii) and (viii) are hereby deleted and replaced in their entirety by new provisions (v), (vi) and (vii) set forth below:
(v) Your removal from or any failure to re-elect you as President and Chief Executive Officer of CBS;
(vi) Any breach by CBS of Paragraphs 3-8 of this letter agreement; and
(vii) Any other material breach by CBS of its material obligations under the Employment Agreement as amended by this letter agreement.
 
 
 
If the above is satisfactory to you, please sign, date and return all four (4) copies of this letter agreement to me.
 
 
Dated:
August 17, 2007
 


