FILE:CBS/CBS-8K-20070131171713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 31, 2007
 
CBS CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(212) 975-4321
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On January 31, 2007, the Board of Directors of CBS Corporation (the "Company") elected Leonard Goldberg, an accomplished television and film producer and executive, to the Company's Board of Directors, effective immediately. The committee or committees of the Board of Directors on which Mr. Goldberg may serve have not yet been determined. With the election of Mr. Goldberg, the Company's Board of Directors is now comprised of a majority of independent directors in compliance with the New York Stock Exchange listing requirements. Mr. Goldberg will participate in the Company's standard director compensation arrangements applicable to directors who are not employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries described in the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 14, 2006.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Goldberg is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CBS CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
 
 
 
Date: January 31, 2007
 
 
 
 
3
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2007
 
LEONARD GOLDBERG NAMED TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
CBS CORPORATION
 
CBS Corporation (NYSE: CBS and CBS.A) announced that its Board of Directors has elected Leonard Goldberg, one of television and film's most accomplished producers and executives, to serve on the Company's Board.
 
Goldberg has served as President of a major Hollywood studio, 20th Century Fox, Head of Programming at the ABC Television Network and as Head of Production for a television studio, Screen Gems (now Columbia Pictures Television). As President of 20th Century Fox in the late 80s, his studio produced the critically acclaimed, hit movies "Big," "Die Hard," "Wall Street," "Broadcast News" and "Working Girl." He also produced the hugely successful motion pictures "WarGames," "Sleeping with the Enemy," "Double Jeopardy" and "Charlie's Angels" under his own banner. While Head of Programming for the ABC Television Network, Goldberg was responsible for developing and introducing an entirely new format, the Made-For-Television Movie. He later partnered with Aaron Spelling to produce several classic series, including "Charlie's Angels," "Hart to Hart," "Starsky and Hutch" and "Fantasy Island." At Screen Gems, Goldberg set into motion production of the landmark television film "Brian's Song."
 
A graduate of the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce, Goldberg began his career at ABC in its research department before rising to become Vice President of Daytime Programming where he introduced such prototypical, highly successful shows as "The Dating Game," "The Newlywed Game" and "Dark Shadows."
 
(More)
 
 
 
CBS ... 2
 
CBS Corporation (NYSE: CBS.A and CBS) is a mass media company with constituent parts that reach back to the beginnings of the broadcast industry, as well as newer businesses that operate on the leading edge of the media industry. The Company, through its many and varied operations, combines broad reach with well-positioned local businesses, all of which provide it with an extensive distribution network by which it serves audiences and advertisers in all 50 states and key international markets. It has operations in virtually every field of media and entertainment, including broadcast television (CBS and The CW  a joint venture between CBS Corporation and Warner Bros. Entertainment), cable television (Showtime and CSTV Networks), local television (CBS Television Stations), television production and syndication (CBS Paramount Network Television and CBS Television Distribution), radio (CBS Radio), advertising on out-of-home media (CBS Outdoor), publishing (Simon & Schuster), interactive media (CBS Interactive), music (CBS Records), licensing and merchandising (CBS Consumer Products) and video/ DVD (CBS Home Entertainment). For more information, log on to
www.cbscorporation.com
.
 
* * *
 
Press Contact
 
 
 
 
 
 


