FILE:CBS/CBS-8K-20121107160725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (seeGeneral Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 7, 2012, CBS Corporation issued a press release announcing earnings for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following Exhibit is furnished as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
(d)  Exhibits.        
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 7, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK, November 7, 2012  CBS Corporation (NYSE: CBS.A and CBS) today reported very strong results, including third quarter records in revenues, operating income before depreciation and amortization ("OIBDA"), operating income, and adjusted earnings per share.
 
"CBS has continued its remarkable run with yet another record quarter," said Sumner Redstone, Executive Chairman, CBS Corporation. "Our world-class content and multiplatform distribution strategy remain at the center of our success. I am very proud of all that Leslie and his team have accomplished, and I know we are in position for continued growth for many years to come."
 
"The transformation of CBS continues as reflected in these record third quarter results," said Leslie Moonves, President and Chief Executive Officer, CBS Corporation. "We have taken a number of significant steps during the last several months to execute our strategy and grow the Company. These include three major retransmission consent agreements, an important reverse compensation deal, new international and domestic streaming contracts, and the sale of our two new hit dramas, and into international syndication. As we continue to take actions like these, we are increasing our recurring revenue from nonadvertising sources and setting ourselves up for even more record results in the future. Going forward, we will continue to expand the ways we achieve value for our content, and we are confident we will hit our goal of a record 2012 and an even better 2013."
Vegas
Elementary,
 
 
Third Quarter 2012 Results
 
The Company set third quarter records in the following key metrics:
 
                
Revenues of $3.42 billion
 
                
OIBDA of $898 million
 
                
Operating income of $771 million
 
                
Net earnings of $391 million
 
                
Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $.65
 
 
Revenues of $3.42 billion for the third quarter of 2012 increased 2% from $3.37 billion for the same prior-year period. This growth was led by an 8% increase in content licensing and distribution revenues, which were driven by higher domestic and international television license fees.
Affiliate and subscription fee revenues rose 12%, reflecting growth at Cable Networks, higher retransmission revenues, and fees received from CBS Network affiliated television stations.
Advertising revenues were down 3%, primarily driven by lower advertising for CBS Radio, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes, and the impact of pre-emptions for the Republican and Democratic national conventions on six nights of the CBS Television Network's primetime schedule.
 
OIBDA of $898 million increased 7% in the third quarter of 2012 from $837 million for the same prior-year period. Operating income of $771 million increased 10% in the third quarter of 2012 from $703 million in the third quarter of 2011. The growth in OIBDA and operating income was primarily driven by higher revenues and increased profits on television licensing revenues.
 
Net earnings were $391 million for the third quarter of 2012, or $.60 per diluted share, up from $338 million, or $.50 per diluted share, during last year's third quarter. The increase in diluted earnings per share reflected the operating income growth, lower interest expense because of the Company's 2012 debt refinancing, and lower weighted average shares outstanding as a result of the Company's share repurchase program. Net earnings include a pretax loss on early extinguishment of debt of $57 million ($35 million, net of tax), or $.05 per share.
 
Adjusting to exclude the pretax loss on early extinguishment of debt, adjusted net earnings were $426 million, or $.65 per diluted share.
 
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to reported results are included at the end of this earnings release.
 
Free Cash Flow, Balance Sheet and Liquidity
Free cash flow was $163 million for the third quarter of 2012, compared with $29 million for the third quarter a year ago. Free cash flow for the third quarter of 2012 included payments of approximately $60 million associated with the early extinguishment of debt, primarily for make-whole premiums. Free cash flow for the same prior-year period included pension contributions of $200 million to prefund the Company's qualified plans. For the first nine months of 2012, free cash flow was $1.33 billion compared with $1.53 billion for the first nine months of 2011, reflecting increased investment in content and higher income tax payments. The Company generated cash flow from operating activities of $1.48 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, versus $1.68 billion for the comparable prior-year period.
 
During the third quarter of 2012, the Company used the net proceeds from its second quarter debt issuances to repay its $152 million of 8.625% debentures at maturity on August 1, 2012, and redeem its $338 million of 5.625% senior notes due August 2012 and its $400 million of 8.20% senior notes due 2014. These actions, along with the debt activity during the first quarter of 2012, will result in annualized interest expense savings of $53 million.
 
Also during the quarter, the Company repurchased 8.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock for $300 million. Since the inception of its share repurchase program in January 2011  and through September 30, 2012  the Company has repurchased 69.2 million shares for $1.89 billion, at an average cost of approximately $27 per share. At the end of the third quarter of 2012, $2.81 billion of authorization remained on the program.
 
At September 30, 2012, the Company's debt outstanding was $5.93 billion and its cash balance was $947 million, which was $287 million higher than December 31, 2011.
Consolidated and Segment Results (dollars in millions)
The tables below present the Company's revenues by segment and type as well as its OIBDA before impairment charges and operating income (loss) by segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, and 2011. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP measures to reported results are included at the end of this earnings release.
 
 
 
 
Entertainment
(CBS Television Network, CBS Television Studios, CBS Global Distribution Group, CBS Films, and CBS Interactive)
Entertainment revenues of $1.68 billion for the third quarter of 2012 grew 3% from $1.63 billion in the same prior-year period, driven by increased domestic and international television license fees and higher retransmission revenues. Advertising revenues were down from last year's third quarter, primarily resulting from the broadcast of summer programming against the highly rated 2012 Summer Olympics and the impact of pre-emptions for the Republican and Democratic national conventions on six nights of the CBS Television Network's primetime schedule.
 
Entertainment OIBDA for the third quarter of 2012 decreased 5% to $384 million from $405 million driven by costs associated with the timing of theatrical releases and the mix of revenues.
 
Cable Networks
(
Showtime Networks, CBS Sports Network, and Smithsonian Networks)
Cable Networks revenues for the third quarter of 2012 increased 4% to $436 million from $420 million for the same prior-year period driven by
higher affiliate fee revenues, which reflect increases in rates and subscriptions at Showtime Networks (which includes andCBS Sports Network, and Smithsonian Networks. Licensing revenues were down from the third quarter of 2011 reflecting the timing of digital streaming revenues. For the first nine months of 2012, streaming revenues increased significantly from the same prior-year period.
Showtime, The Movie Channel,
Flix),
 
Cable Networks OIBDA for the third quarter of 2012 grew 12% to $227 million from $203 million for the same prior-year period. This increase reflects
the growth in affiliate revenues.
 
Publishing
(
Simon & Schuster)
Publishing revenues for the third quarter of 2012 decreased 5% to $210 million from $220 million for the same prior-year period
as strong growth in digital book sales was more than offset by lower print book sales. Digital sales increased 20% from the same prior-year period and represented approximately 21% of total Publishing revenues for the third quarter of 2012. Best-selling titles in the third quarter included by Arnold Schwarzenegger and by Brad Thor.
Total Recall
Black List
 
Publishing OIBDA for the third quarter of 2012 increased $1 million to $39 million from the same prior-year period principally driven by growth in more profitable digital book sales.
Local Broadcasting
(CBS Television Stations and CBS Radio)
Local Broadcasting revenues for the third quarter of 2012 increased 1% to $661 million from $656 million for the same prior-year period. CBS Television Stations revenues rose 7% driven by political advertising and retransmission revenues. CBS Radio revenues were down 5%.
 
Local Broadcasting OIBDA for the third quarter of 2012 increased 16% to $213 million from $184 million, driven by a decline in programming and production expenses as well as lower music royalty costs from the initial impact of a new long-term agreement.
 
Outdoor
(CBS Outdoor)
Outdoor revenues for the third quarter of 2012 increased 2% to $486 million from $477 million for the same prior-year period, while revenues on a constant dollar basis increased 5% from the third quarter of 2011. Revenues for the Americas (which includes North America and South America) increased 1% in constant dollars for the third quarter of 2012, principally driven by 5% growth in the U.S. billboards and displays businesses. The nonrenewal of the Toronto transit contract negatively affected the Americas revenue comparison. Revenues for Europe increased 14% in constant dollars, which was primarily a result of higher advertising sales associated with the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.
 
Outdoor OIBDA for the third quarter of 2012 increased 24% to $99 million from $80 million for the same prior-year period, driven by the revenue growth in constant dollars.
 
Corporate
Corporate expenses before depreciation for the third quarter of 2012 decreased $2 million to $53 million from the same prior-year period.
 
Residual Costs
Residual costs include pension and postretirement benefits costs for plans retained by the Company for previously divested businesses. Residual costs for the third quarter of 2012 decreased $7 million to $12 million from the same quarter last year, primarily because of the benefit from the prefunding of pension plans during 2011.
 
About CBS Corporation
CBS Corporation
(NYSE: CBS.A and CBS) is a mass media company that creates and distributes industry-leading content across a variety of platforms to audiences around the world. The Company has businesses with origins that date back to the dawn of the broadcasting age as well as new ventures that operate on the leading edge of media. CBS owns the most-watched television network in the U.S. and one of the world's largest libraries of entertainment content, making its brand  "the Eye"  one of the most recognized in business. The Company's operations span virtually every field of media and entertainment, including cable, publishing, radio, local TV, film, outdoor advertising, and interactive and socially responsible media. CBS's businesses include CBS Television Network, The CW (a joint venture between CBS Corporation and Warner Bros. Entertainment), Showtime Networks, CBS Sports Network, Smithsonian Networks, Simon & Schuster, CBS Television Stations, CBS Radio, CBS Outdoor, CBS Television Studios, CBS Global Distribution Group, CBS Interactive, CBS Consumer Products, CBS Home Entertainment, CBS Films and CBS EcoMedia. For more information, go to .
www.cbscorporation.com
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-looking Statements
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the Company's current expectations concerning future results and events. Similarly, statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: advertising market conditions generally; changes in the public acceptance of the Company's programming; changes in technology and its effect on competition in the Company's markets; changes in the Federal Communications laws and regulations; the impact of piracy on the Company's products; the impact of the consolidation in the market for the Company's programming; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or other regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses generally; the impact of union activity, including possible strikes or work stoppages or the Company's inability to negotiate favorable terms for contract renewals; and other factors described in the Company's news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including but not limited to the Company's most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and Form 8-Ks. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and under section 27A of the Securities Act and section 21E of the Exchange Act, we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Unaudited; in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited; in millions)
 
 
 
CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited; in millions)
 
 
CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES REGARDING NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited; in millions)
 
Operating Income (Loss) Before Depreciation and Amortization ("OIBDA") and OIBDA Before Impairment Charges
 
The following tables set forth the Company's OIBDA for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011. The Company defines OIBDA as net earnings (loss) adjusted to exclude the following line items presented in its Consolidated Statements of Operations: Equity in earnings (loss) of investee companies, net of tax; Provision for income taxes; Other items, net; Net loss on early extinguishment of debt; Interest income; Interest expense; and Depreciation and amortization. The following tables also set forth the Company's OIBDA before impairment charges for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. The Company defines "OIBDA before impairment charges" as OIBDA excluding impairment charges.
 
The Company uses OIBDA and OIBDA before impairment charges, as well as OIBDA margin and OIBDA before impairment charges margin, to, among other things, evaluate the Company's operating performance, to value prospective acquisitions and as one of several components of incentive compensation targets for certain management personnel. These measures are among the primary measures used by management for planning and forecasting of future periods, and they are important indicators of the Company's operational strength and business performance because they provide a link between profitability and operating cash flow. The Company believes these measures are relevant and useful for investors because they allow investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by the Company's management, help improve investors' understanding of the Company's operating performance, and make it easier for investors to compare the Company's results with other companies that have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. In addition, these are among the primary measures used externally by the Company's investors, analysts and industry peers for purposes of valuation and for the comparison of the Company's operating performance to other companies in its industry.
 
Because OIBDA and OIBDA before impairment charges are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), they should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, net earnings (loss) as an indicator of operating performance. OIBDA, as the Company calculates it, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies. In addition, this measure does not necessarily represent funds available for discretionary use and is not necessarily a measure of the Company's ability to fund its cash needs. As OIBDA and OIBDA before impairment charges exclude certain financial information that is included in net earnings (loss), the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, users of this financial information should consider the types of events and transactions which are excluded. The Company provides the following reconciliations of OIBDA and OIBDA before impairment charges to net earnings (loss), and OIBDA or OIBDA before impairment charges for each segment to such segment's operating income (loss), the most directly comparable amounts reported under GAAP.
CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES REGARDING NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION (continued)
(Unaudited; in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
          
Margin is defined as OIBDA or operating income, as applicable, divided by revenues.
 
CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES REGARDING NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION (continued)
(Unaudited; in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
          
Margin is defined as OIBDA, OIBDA before impairment charges or operating income, as applicable, divided by revenues.
 
CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES REGARDING NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION (continued)
(Unaudited; in millions)
Free Cash Flow
 
The Company defines free cash flow as its net cash flow provided by (used for) operating activities less capital expenditures. The Company's calculation of free cash flow includes capital expenditures because investment in capital expenditures is a use of cash that is directly related to the Company's operations. The Company's net cash flow provided by (used for) operating activities is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to the Company to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments, maintain its capital assets, satisfy its tax obligations, and fund ongoing operations and working capital needs. As a result, free cash flow is a significant measure of the Company's ability to generate long-term value. It is useful for investors to know whether this ability is being enhanced or degraded as a result of the Company's operating performance. The Company believes the presentation of free cash flow is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to evaluate the cash generated from the Company's underlying operations in a manner similar to the method used by management. Free cash flow is one of several components of incentive compensation targets for certain management personnel. In addition, free cash flow is a primary measure used externally by the Company's investors, analysts and industry peers for purposes of valuation and comparison of the Company's operating performance to other companies in its industry.
 
As free cash flow is not a measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, free cash flow should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, either net cash flow provided by (used for) operating activities as a measure of liquidity or net earnings (loss) as a measure of operating performance. Free cash flow, as the Company calculates it, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies. In addition, free cash flow as a measure of liquidity has certain limitations, does not necessarily represent funds available for discretionary use, and is not necessarily a measure of the Company's ability to fund its cash needs. When comparing free cash flow to net cash flow provided by (used for) operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, users of this financial information should consider the types of events and transactions that are not reflected in free cash flow.
 
The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company's net cash flow provided by operating activities to free cash flow:
 
 
The following table presents a summary of the Company's cash flows:
 
CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES REGARDING NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION (continued)
(Unaudited; in millions, except per share amounts)
 
2012 Adjusted Results
The following tables reconcile adjusted financial results to the reported results included in this earnings release. The Company believes that adjusting its financial results for the impact of these items is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by the Company's management, provides a clearer perspective on the current underlying performance of the Company, and adjusting each period's results on the same basis makes it easier to compare the Company's year-over-year results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)    OIBDA margin is defined as OIBDA or adjusted OIBDA divided by revenues.
(b)   
Reflects a pretax noncash impairment charge to reduce goodwill at Local Broadcasting in connection with radio station divestitures.


