FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20040213141601.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Page 2
Explanatory Note
 
This filing on Form 8-K/A amends the Form 8-K filed by Cummins Inc. on January 28, 2004.  The amendment adds clarification to certain information that was contained in Exhibit 99.1 which included our press release announcing Cummins Inc. fourth quarter results.  The clarification provides supplemental narrative regarding the disclosure and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures that was attached to the previously issued press release.   
Item 7.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
     ( c )  Exhibits.
 
99.1         Press release dated January 27, 2004, adjusted for the item described above..
Item 12.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On Tuesday January 27, 2004, Cummins Inc. issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fourth quarter and full-year ending December 31, 2003.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 13, 2004

 
Exhibit 99.1
                        Susan Hanafee, Exec. Director                         Corporate Communications                         812-377-0494
For Immediate Release January 27, 2004
            COLUMBUS, Ind. -- Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported fourth-quarter 2003 sales of $1.74 billion and earnings before interest, income taxes, minority interest and preferred dividends (EBIT) of $84 million, compared with sales of $1.41 billion and EBIT of $20 million a year ago.  Net earnings for the quarter before the cumulative effect of an accounting change were $47 million, or $1.07 per share, compared with net earnings of $46 million, or $1.10 per share, in the year ago quarter.  Total sales for 2003 were $6.30 billion with EBIT of $181 million, compared to sales of $5.85 billion and EBIT of $139 million in 2002.  Net earnings before the cumulative effect of accounting changes were $54 million, or $1.36 per share, in 2003 compared with $79 million, or $2.06 per share, in 2002.
            The fourth quarter and full-year 2003 net earnings, as reported, were $43 million, or $1.00 per share, and $50 million, or $1.27 per share, respectively, which include a $4 million charge for the cumulative effect of an accounting change resulting from the consolidation of a financing variable interest entity as of December 31, 2003.  Full year 2002 earnings, as reported, were $82 million, or $2.13 per share, which included a $3 million benefit from the cumulative effect of an accounting change.  The fourth-quarter and full-year 2002 earnings included a one-time positive income tax adjustment of $57 million for the year.
            "2003 was a good year for Cummins, characterized by marked improvement with each successive quarter," said Tim Solso, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Cummins.  "After a slow start, our markets finally showed signs of improvement following a very tough three-year recession. For the second half of the year, all of our businesses were generating a profit, which was largely due to increased sales in most markets and our ongoing cost-reduction efforts."    
 
            "Our ability to win new business based on our quality products and strong brand image, combined with our effective partnerships and global presence, gives me optimism about 2004," Solso added.
            Solso cited several recent business developments that provide momentum for 2004.
Cummins has recently received significant orders from industry-leading truckload carriers and leasing companies, including Swift Transportation, Wal-Mart, Penske Truck Leasing, FFE Transportation and Ryder.  The selection of Cummins signals the willingness of truck fleets to fairly evaluate the quality and performance of various engine alternatives and award business accordingly. 
 named the Cummins diesel engine for the Dodge Ram pickup one of  "10 best engines for 2004." At 5.9 liters and 325-horsepower, the Cummins product is the most powerful diesel engine available in this segment of the automotive market.
Ward's  Communications
Cummins will launch its medium-duty ISB engine in the school bus market this month in the Thomas Built Saf-T-Liner school bus.  Thomas Bus selected the ISB engine because of its low emissions, improved fuel economy and reduced operating and maintenance costs.
Power Generation expects to increase consumer business revenues through its expanded product offering for the towable recreational vehicle and recreational marine markets.  The strong brand and quality of these consumer generator sets continue to position Cummins as the dominant supplier for recreational vehicles and provide opportunity to penetrate other consumer markets.
The Company's Filtration Business continues to pursue additional long-term supply arrangements with major original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).  In 2003, it signed customer agreements extending through 2007 valued at more than $1.4 billion.  These agreements expand current business and lay the foundation to achieve future growth targets.
In 2003, the International Distributor Business invested in new service facilities in China, United Kingdom, Belgium, Italy, Argentina and Russia.  The business expects to drive profitability improvement through these expanded operations and its focus on growing parts and service revenue. 
 
Corporate Overview
            The 2003 fourth quarter produced record sales for the Filtration Business and record sales and profitability for International Distributors Business. Automotive and industrial markets improved in both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year comparisons, particularly in the heavy-duty and medium-duty trucks, bus and construction equipment markets. 2003 was a record sales year for the Dodge Ram pickup, with Cummins shipping 128,200 engines - a 28 percent increase over 2002.  The Power Generation Business reported earnings of $14 million in the quarter, returning to profitability on the strength of higher volume and cost-reduction improvements.  Strong sales in China helped boost income from joint ventures and alliances to a record $70 million for 2003, more than three times the income earned in the previous year.  Cummins received cash of $22 million from joint ventures in 2003 and expects to receive nearly twice that amount in 2004 as a result of established dividend distribution policies.  Free cash flow for the quarter was $94 million.
Business Unit Results
Engine
            Total sales for the Engine Business in the fourth quarter were $984 million, a 27 percent increase from sales of $776 million a year ago.  Engine Business segment EBIT was $32 million for the quarter versus a loss of $1 million in the fourth quarter a year ago. 
            Automotive market sales were up 32 percent, compared with the fourth quarter of  2002. The North American heavy-duty truck markets and global medium-duty truck markets were particularly strong.  Broad-based growth in Cummins industrial markets drove a 16 percent year-over-year revenue increase, driven by a 19 percent increase in sales for construction equipment and an 18 percent increase in sales for mining equipment.
Power Generation
The Power Generation Business reported fourth-quarter sales of  $392 million, up 21 percent from a year ago. Profitability improved substantially with quarterly segment EBIT of $14 million compared with a loss of $11 million in the fourth quarter last year.
           
            Sales of commercial gensets and engines sold to other genset manufacturers were responsible for nearly half of the sales increase from the year-ago quarter.  The consumer segment of Power Generation also performed extremely well, with record sales and profits that reflected continuing strength in the recreational vehicle market. The higher volume combined with continued focus on cost reduction initiatives provided the strong improvement in segment performance.
 
Filtration and Other
            The Filtration and Other segment had record sales of $282 million for the quarter, a 16 percent increase compared with the fourth quarter of 2002. 
            North American Emissions Solutions first-fit automotive sales and aftermarket sales in the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa contributed to the year-over-year revenue increase, as did an overall favorable currency impact. 
            The Filtration Business reported segment EBIT of  $25 million, compared with $28 million a year ago, as this business continues to fund growth initiatives, including its long-term sales agreements, distribution and logistics improvements and the Emissions Solutions business.
International Distributors
            The 2003 fourth quarter set records for both sales and profitability for the International Distributor Business, with demand improvement across nearly all territories.  Sales were $190 million in the fourth quarter - an increase of 24 percent compared with sales of $153 million in last year's quarter.  Segment EBIT for the quarter was $13 million, compared with $12 million a year ago.
2004 Guidance
            The Company expects annual earnings per share in 2004 to be in the range of $3.20 to $3.40, with a first quarter 2004 earnings expectation of $.40 to $.50 per share.  Capital expenditures for 2004 are forecasted to be in the range of $125 to $135 million.
            The Company's earnings projections are based on expectations of a substantial recovery in the North American heavy-duty and global medium-duty truck markets and solid increases in most industrial markets; double-digit revenue growth in International Distributors, with growth in nearly all regions; double-digit revenue growth in the Filtration and Other segment coming from Emission Solutions and OEM growth through the Company's long-term sales agreements; and, double-digit sales growth in its Power Generation Business through both organic growth and increased penetration due to new products for multiple markets.
 
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
            Non-GAAP financial measures used in this release include EBIT and Free Cash Flow.  These measures are defined and reconciliations to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measures are included in a schedule attached to this release.  Cummins presents this information as it believes the data is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance and they are measures used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves its customers through more than 680 company-owned and independent distributor locations in 137 countries and territories. Cummins also provides service through a vast dealer network of more than 5,000 facilities in 197 countries. With  over 23,000 employees worldwide, Cummins reported sales of $6.3 billion in 2003. Press releases can be found by accessing the Cummins home page at .
www.cummins.com
Forward Looking Statement Disclosure
            Information provided in this release that is not purely historical is considered to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the Company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future.  It is important to note that the Company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (Unaudited)
Earnings before interest, taxes, minority interests and preferred dividends (EBIT)
We define EBIT as earnings before interest, taxes, minority interest, preferred dividends and the cumulative effect of any accounting changes.  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to our consolidated net earnings, for each of the applicable periods:
Interest expense between accounting periods is not comparable due to the issuance of a new accounting standard.  In May, the FASB issued SFAS 150 which required that dividends on our Convertible Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust be classified as interest expense after July 1, 2003.  This reclassification, in conjunction with the issuance of our 9 % Senior Notes in the fourth quarter of 2002, results in interest expense not being comparable for the periods presented. 
Our fourth quarter 2002 net earnings included a one-time $57 million favorable tax adjustment credit related to settlement of U.S. Internal Revenue Service tax audits for the tax years 1994 through 1999.
We believe EBIT is a useful measure of our operating performance for the periods presented as it illustrates our operating performance without regard to financing methods, capital structure or income taxes.  EBIT is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and we do not consider EBIT to be a substitute for performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.  Instead, we believe that EBIT should be considered in addition to those measures reported in accordance with GAAP. 
 
 
Free cash flow
We use free cash flow as a measure of our operating segments ability to generate cash for investing activities, debt service or other corporate purposes and initiatives.  In addition, in the first quarter of 2003 we provided guidance to the investment community on our expectations of free cash flow for 2003.  We have reported our actual performance against this expectation.  Free cash flow is not a GAAP measure; and companies define free cash flow differently.  We define free cash flow as the sum of cash flows from operating and investing activities, both of which are GAAP measures included in our Statements of Cash Flows, adjusted to exclude cash flows from the acquisition or disposition of certain business activities, receivable transactions, sales-leaseback transactions and transactions related to marketable securities, none of which we consider to be within the control of our operating segment management.  Below is a reconciliation of the GAAP measures of cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing activities to the non-GAAP measure of free cash flow.
Product Revenues as Percent of Total Sales
Sales
Engine Shipments
 


