FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20050421174158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.  
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  
On April 21, 2005, Cummins Inc. issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of 2005 and reiterating financial guidance for full-year 2005. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.  
The press release contains a non-GAAP financial measure, as defined by Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Specifically, "EBIT" which is defined as earnings before interest expense, provision for income taxes and minority interests in earnings of consolidated subsidiaries and is not a measure defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). This measure is used internally to evaluate the company's operating performance without regard to financing methods, capital structure and income taxes.  Management encourages investors to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99-Press Release dated April 21, 2005
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 21, 2005
 
               Mark Land                Director - - Public Relations                (317) 610-2456                (812) 350-9678 (mobile)
 
For
Immediate Release
April 21, 2005
Cummins reports sharply higher net income for first quarter; raises 2005 earnings guidance
 
COLUMBUS, Ind. - Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported sharply higher earnings for the first quarter as a result of better margins, strong joint venture performance and increased sales in each of its business units.
For the three months ending March 27, Cummins posted net income of $97 million, or $1.96 a share on a diluted basis - nearly three times the $33 million ($0.76 a share) the Company earned in the first quarter of 2004 and well above the Company's previous guidance.
Net sales of $2.21 billion were 25 percent higher than $1.77 billion for the same period a year ago. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) were $163 million in the quarter, or 7.4 percent of sales. For the first quarter of 2004, Cummins reported EBIT of $78 million, or 4.4 percent of sales.
"We continued to build off our record performance in 2004 with an excellent first quarter," said Cummins Chairman and CEO Tim Solso. "Our markets across the world remain strong and these results reflect our ability to take a greater percentage of revenue to the bottom line. Our people are executing well and those efforts are paying off."
As a result of the Company's improved performance, Cummins today is raising its earnings and sales guidance for 2005. The Company now expects to earn between $9.00 and $9.20 a share for the year, up from its previous guidance of $8.00 - $8.30 a share. The Company expects to earn between $2.25 and $2.35 a share in the second quarter.  The Company is now forecasting sales for the year to be 10-12 percent greater than last year, compared to its previous forecast of a 7-8 percent increase.
The Company's first quarter performance was led by the Engine Business, which saw sales rise 31 percent from a year ago and Segment EBIT nearly triple, driven by significant strength in the North American heavy duty truck market and its global mining, marine and construction markets.
The Company's Power Generation and International Distributor Business Units posted sharply higher Segment EBIT when compared to the first quarter of 2004. Likewise, Cummins continues to see strong earnings from its joint venture operations, especially in China. For the first quarter, Cummins profits from its unconsolidatedjoint ventures around the world were $31 million, up from $18 million for the same period a year ago. Cummins consolidated operations in China also performed extremely well, with the markets for generators, turbochargers and filtration products remaining strong.
The Company continued to strengthen its balance sheet in the first quarter by reducing its debt by $259 million.
"We're extremely proud to have been able to pay down a substantial portion of debt," said Cummins Chief Financial Officer Jean Blackwell.  "Reducing our debt is a central part of Cummins strategy to strengthen its balance sheet and improve liquidity. We believe that these efforts have resulted in metrics sufficient to justify a return to investment grade."
The Company received national recognition in the first quarter for its financial performance as well as for its efforts to be a responsible corporate citizen. In addition to being named to magazine's list of top 50 performing companies for 2004, Cummins was recognized by magazine as its top corporate citizen for 2005.  Cummins, which has made the list each of the six years it has been compiled by the magazine, previously was ranked as high as No. 2 in 2003. Cummins also was named the best company for Asian-Americans to work by magazine.
Business Week
Business Ethics
Diversity Inc.
"Cummins core values go beyond delivering superior results, and we take our commitment to employees and the communities in which we operate very seriously," Solso said. "This type of recognition is gratifying, and it speaks well to the values created at Cummins over decades - values that our 28,000 employees strive to live every day."
First quarter details
Engine segment
Segment EBIT of $114 million was a 185 percent increase over $40 million for the same period in 2004.  EBIT margin was 7.6 percent, compared to 3.5 percent in the first quarter 2004. Sales rose 31 percent to $1.50 billion in the first quarter.
Heavy duty truck engine revenues grew 47 percent from the first quarter of 2004. The Company also saw robust performance in its industrial engine markets, especially the mining segment. Industrial sales increased 57 percent compared to the same period last year.
Power Generation segment
Segment EBIT of $17 million was nearly three times the $6 million reported for the first quarter of 2004. Power Generation reported sales of $439 million, the best first quarter ever for the segment and 19 percent higher than first quarter 2004.
Commercial demand continues to grow, especially in the Middle East, Europe and North America, where capital spending increased in the first quarter. Overall market conditions in Asia, most notably China, are strong. Expectations for summer power shortages in China continue to drive demand for large generator sets (above 500 kva).
Filtration and Other segment
Segment sales were $403 million in the quarter, up 16 percent from the same period in 2004, while Segment EBIT was $20 million, compared to $24 million in 2004. Strong product demand in North America and Holset turbocharger sales in China helped fuel the segment's performance.
Segment EBIT declined compared to first quarter 2004 as the business continues to face commodity price pressures and supply chain inefficiencies. Margins improved, resulting in a 33 percent increase in  Segment EBIT from the fourth quarter 2004, despite only a 1 percent increase in revenues quarter-to-quarter.
International Distributors segment
Segment EBIT of $12 million was a 50 percent increase from $8 million in the first quarter 2004, while sales for the quarter were 26 percent higher than the same period in 2004.
The segment posted record first quarter revenues of $215 million, led by especially strong distributor performance in Europe and the Middle East.
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP financial measure used in this release. EBIT is defined and reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
 
Webcast information
Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results at 10 a.m., EST. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at
www.cummins.com.
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in more than 160 countries through its network of 550 Company-owned and independent distributor facilities and more than 5,000 dealer locations. With more than 28,000 employees worldwide, Cummins reported sales of $8.4 billion in 2004. Press releases can be found on the Web at
www.cummins.com.
 
Forward Looking Statement Disclosure
Information provided and statements on the webcast and in this release that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Certain reclassifications have been made to 2004 amounts to conform to the 2005 presentation.
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Certain reclassifications have been made to 2004 amounts to conform to the 2005 presentation.
 
The table below reconciles the segment information to the corresponding amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (Unaudited)
Earnings before interest, taxes and minority interests (EBIT)
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*   We believe EBIT is a useful measure of our operating performance for the periods presented as it illustrates our operating performance      without regard to financing methods, capital structure or income taxes.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative      for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and may not be consistent with measures      used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data.


