FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20060428132428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
                                                     
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On April 28, 2006, Cummins Inc. (the "Company" or "we") issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of 2006 and revising its financial guidance for full-year 2006.  A copy of Cummins' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.  
99-Press Release dated April 28, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 28, 2006
(a)   Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. Certain reclassifications have been made to 2005 amounts to conform to the 2006 presentation.  
 
(a)   Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. Certain reclassifications have been made to 2005 amounts to conform to the 2006 presentation.  
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.    Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2005 amounts to conform to 2006 presentation. 
Certain reclassifications have been made to 2005 amounts to conform to the 2006 presentation.
Earnings before interest, taxes and minority interests (EBIT)
We define EBIT as earnings before interest expense, provision for income taxes and minority interests in earnings of consolidated subsidiaries.  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to our consolidated net earnings, for each of the applicable periods:  
We believe EBIT is a useful measure of our operating performance for the periods presented as it illustrates our operating performance without regard to financing methods, capital structure or income taxes.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data.
 
NOTE 1.  EARNINGS PER SHARE
The following is a reconciliation of net earnings and weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of calculating basic and diluted net earnings per share:
 NOTE 2. INVESTEE EQUITY, ROYALTY AND OTHER INCOME
Investee equity, royalty and other income included in our for the interim reporting periods was as follows:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings
NOTE 3.  PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
Our income tax provision for the three months ended April 2, 2006, was increased due to a tax bill passed in Indiana during March 2006 that will have the effect of lowering our effective tax rate in Indiana over time.  As a result, our first quarter tax provision includes a $12 million charge to adjust deferred tax assets to their ultimate expected realizable value based upon this action.  Absent this charge, our effective tax rate was 32 percent for the quarter.  If Congress passes a tax bill in 2006 that includes provisions to extend the research tax credits, we believe such action will reduce our effective tax rate to 31 percent for the year.
NOTE 4.  DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Depreciation and amortization expense included in operating activities of the was as follows:
Condensed
Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows
 
                                 
 
 
 
 
 
News Release                   
 Mark Land
                                                                                                          Director - Public Relations
                                                                                                          (317) 610-2456                                                                                                           (812) 350-9678 (mobile)
For Immediate Release
April 28, 2006
Cummins reports strong first-quarter earnings; increases profit guidance for full year
COLUMBUS, IND. - Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported strong first-quarter earnings of $135 million, or $2.70 per diluted share, powered by sales growth across most of its markets and product lines, and continued gross margin strength. Sales for the quarter totaled $2.68 billion.
Based on its first-quarter performance and its forecast for the remainder of the year, Cummins also is increasing its 2006 full-year guidance today. The Company now expects to earn between $12.40 and $12.60 a share in 2006, up from its original guidance of $11.90 - $12.10 a share. The Company expects to earn between $3.35 and $3.45 a share in the second quarter.  
"As we have been saying for some time, we're confident 2006 will be an even better year than our record 2005 and these results indicate that we are on our way to achieving our goals," said Cummins Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso.  "Our first-quarter performance reflects considerable strength along the breadth of our product line and in markets around the world.
"We have become a less cyclical, more diversified company, and as our operating performance continues to improve and we strengthen our balance sheet, we are increasingly well-positioned for the future."
In the first quarter, Indiana passed a tax bill that will, over time, lower Cummins' effective tax rate in the state. As a result, however, Cummins' first-quarter results include a one-time charge of approximately $12 million, or 23 cents a share, for adjustments required as a consequence of this legislation. 
The Company's first-quarter performance was significantly stronger than the same period in 2005. For the first quarter, net income rose 39 percent from $97 million, or $1.96 per diluted share, during the first quarter of 2005. Revenues increased 21 percent, from $2.21 billion a year ago.
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) rose 56 percent to $255 million, from $163 million in the first quarter of 2005. EBIT as a percentage of sales was 9.5 percent, compared to 7.4 percent a year ago. Gross margins for the quarter also improved from the same period a year ago, increasing to 22.4 percent from 20.7 percent.
The Company's Engine segment enjoyed its most profitable quarter ever, while the Power Generation and Distribution segments posted strong sales and earnings during the quarter. The Company's fourth business segment - Components - began to see improvement in earnings while continuing to invest in technologies critical to the Company's future success.
First-quarter details
Engine Segment
Segment EBIT of $179 million was a record and a 53 percent increase from the first quarter of 2005. Segment EBIT as a percentage of sales was 9.8 percent, compared to 7.9 percent during the first quarter of 2005.
Engine sales rose 23 percent to $1.82 billion, led by stronger-than-expected volumes across nearly all markets. Global heavy-duty truck engine shipments rose 22 percent from the same period in 2005, while bus shipments increased 35 percent, construction shipments increased 29 percent and global light-duty automotive shipments rose 36 percent.
Power Generation Segment
Power Generation sales of $536 million were 26 percent higher than during the first quarter of 2005, while Segment EBIT tripled to $45 million, or 8.4 percent of sales, in the quarter.
Commercial generator sales, which represent more than half of the segment's total sales, rose 32 percent from the same period last year led by strong growth in North America and the Middle East. Consumer generator sales rose 14 percent, while Power Electronics sales increased 53 percent compared to the same period a year ago. 
Distribution Segment
Distribution Segment sales of $317 million were 25 percent higher than during the first quarter 2005, while Segment EBIT rose 55 percent to $31 million, or 9.8 percent of sales. Quarterly sales and Segment EBIT were the second-highest ever, trailing only the fourth quarter of 2005.
Sales increased across all product lines, led by a 27 percent increase in sales of Power Generation products and a 20 percent rise in parts sales. From a geographic perspective, sales were particularly strong in the Middle East and Europe. Profits at the Company's joint venture distributors in all regions also improved.
Components Segment
Sales in the Company's Components Segments - made up of the Company's filtration, turbocharger, fuel systems and exhaust aftertreatment businesses - increased 17 percent to $555 million, while Segment EBIT rose 35 percent to $31 million, or 5.6 percent of sales.
The Filtration business benefited from strong aftermarket sales and sales to original equipment makers in North and Latin America. The Segment saw higher return on sales, despite continued investment in research and engineering to develop new products for 2007 and beyond.
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP financial measure used in this release. EBIT is defined and reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
Webcast
Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results today at 10 a.m. EDT. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at .
information
www.cummins.com
 
About Cummins Inc.
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in more than 160 countries through its network of 550 Company-owned and independent distributor facilities and more than 5,000 dealer locations. Cummins reported net income of $550 million on sales of $9.9 billion in 2005. Press releases can be found on the Web at . 
www.cummins.com
Information provided and statements on the webcast and in this release that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange


