FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20080703151522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
On June 30, 2008, Cummins Inc. (the "Company") and its wholly-owned subsidiaries Cummins Ltd., Cummins Power Generation Ltd. and Cummins Generator Technologies Limited, as Borrowers, entered into a revolving credit agreement (the " New Credit Agreement") with the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent and Swingline Lender, and ING Bank N.V., Dublin Branch and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc., as Co-Documentation Agents. 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Under the New Credit Agreement, which will mature on June 30, 2011, the Borrowers and Lenders may enter into revolving loans, and issuances of letters of credit subject to certain amount limitations, in an amount up to $1.1 billion in the aggregate outstanding at any time prior to maturity.  These borrowings will not be secured with liens on any of the Company's or its subsidiaries' assets.  The New Credit Agreement contains typical financial and other covenants.
Lenders party to the New Credit Agreement are:
There are no material relationships between the Company or its affiliates and any of the Lenders, other than as described above. 
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement  
On June 30, 2008, Cummins Inc. (the "Company") and its wholly-owned subsidiaries Cummins Engine Co. Ltd. (now known as Cummins Ltd.), Cummins Power Generation Ltd., and Newage International Limited (now known as Cummins Generator Technologies Limited),  as Borrowers, terminated a revolving credit agreement (the " Old Credit Agreement"), dated as of December 1, 2004, among the Company and these subsidiaries, as Borrowers, the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender, Citicorp USA, Inc., as Syndication Agent, and Bank of America, N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc., as Co-Documentation Agents.   The Old Credit Agreement would have expired on December 1, 2009, and was limited to aggregate borrowings thereunder of $650 million.  The Old Credit Agreement contained typical financial and other covenants.
Lenders party to the Old Credit Agreement were:
There were no material relationships between the Company or its affiliates and any of the Lenders, other than as described above. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 3, 2008


