FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20080818142845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC  20549  
FORM 8-K  
CURRENT REPORT  
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Date of Report: August 18, 2008
 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  
  CUMMINS INC.
500 Jackson Street P. O. Box 3005
Columbus
, IN  47202-3005
(Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):  
see
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events
 
On August 13, Cummins Inc. announced that it will add Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) aftertreatment to its Heavy-Duty diesel engine products to deliver fuel economy improvements for its customers in conjunction with meeting the Environmental Protection Agency's 2010 regulations.   The press release issued in connection with this announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99-Press Release dated August 13, 2008
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 18, 2008  
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
CONTACT:  
Carol Lavengood
Cummins Inc.
(812) 377-3079
carol.lavengood@cummins.com             
 
 
CUMMINS ANNOUNCES RECENT TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ACHIEVES SIGNIFICANT FUEL ECONOMY BENEFITS
 
COLUMBUS, Ind. (August 13, 2008)  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) announced today that it will add Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) aftertreatment to its Heavy-Duty products for 2010 to deliver the best fuel efficiency for its customers.
 
Cummins will combine recent advancements in catalyst technology with its unique engine systems.  This will provide customers with significant fuel economy improvements, in addition to meeting the near-zero emissions levels required by the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) 2010 regulations.  Cummins Emission Solutions, a leading provider of SCR systems, will supply integrated exhaust aftertreatment systems for Cummins Heavy-Duty and MidRange engines.
 
As previously announced, Cummins' Heavy-Duty ISX engine family will incorporate the XPI fuel system, proven cooled Exhaust Gas Recirculation, the Cummins VG turbocharger, Cummins Particulate Filter and advanced electronic controls for the best performance, fuel economy and reliability.
 
"Cummins' expertise in engine system integration means that we have the capability to make the engine systems and aftertreatment technologies work together seamlessly," said Steve Charlton, Vice President, Heavy-Duty Engineering.  "The addition of the new SCR catalyst technology ensures that Cummins will deliver the best fuel economy in the industry and total operating cost benefits to our customers."
 
 "This move demonstrates Cummins' ability to adapt to a changing environment by leveraging technology advancements from our MidRange engine development and Cummins Emission Solutions," said Ed Pence, Vice President and General Manager, Heavy-Duty Engine Business.  "Our 2010 engine development is progressing on plan and customers can depend on Cummins to deliver these new products on-time, with the reliability, performance, and fuel economy that they have come to expect from us."
 
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations. Cummins reported net income of $739 million on sales of $13.05 billion in 2007. Press releases can be found on the Web at www.cummins.com.


