FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20091216172155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC  20549  
FORM 8-K  
CURRENT REPORT  
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Date of Report: December 15, 2009  
  
CUMMINS INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  
500 Jackson Street P. O. Box 3005 Columbus, IN  47202-3005 (Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):  
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
b)       Cummins Inc. has announced that Jim Kelly, President of the Engine Business, will leave his position effective March 1, 2010.  He will be replaced in that position by Rich Freeland, who is currently President of the Components Group.
 
The Company's press releases with respect to this matter are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1 - Press Release dated December 15, 2009         99.2 - Press Release dated December 16, 2009
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  
Date: December 16, 2009  
 
CUMMINS INC.
 
Exhibit Index to Current Report on Form 8-K
 
 
Exhibit
Numbers
 
(99.1)                  Press Release dated December 15, 2009
(99.2)                  Press Release dated December 16, 2009
 
 
 

 
 
 
Contact:
 
Mark Land
Executive Director - Corporate Communications
(317) 610-2456
mark.d.land@cummins.com
 
Cummins Engine Business President Jim Kelly to take new role in early 2010
-- Successor to be named in near future ---
 
COLUMBUS, IN - Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) announced today that Engine Business President Jim Kelly will leave current his role in March 2010 in order to lead a number of key cross-business strategic projects.
 
Kelly joined Cummins in 1976 and was named to his current position in May 2005. His successor will be named in the very near future.
 
"Jim has been instrumental in the Engine Business' success and transformation over the last two decades, and for nearly five years he has effectively led the business during a period of both record growth and the most difficult recession in decades," said Cummins President and Chief Operating Officer Tom Linebarger.
 
"Earlier this year, Jim expressed his desire to retire and for a smooth leadership transition in the Engine Business.  I am extremely pleased that he has decided to remain with Cummins awhile longer in order to help us tackle some important enterprise-wide initiatives."
 
Under Kelly's leadership, Cummins became the first engine maker to meet the 2010 emissions standards in 2007 with the 6.7-liter Turbo Diesel engine for the Dodge Ram pickup truck. The Company's North American heavy-duty truck engine market share also doubled in the last four years, and Cummins has significantly grown its engine presence in markets around the world during Kelly's tenure.
 
Kelly, who has been a Cummins Vice President since 1993, has served as plant manager at two of Cummins' highest-profile manufacturing operations  the Jamestown, N.Y., and Columbus, IN, engine plants  and has held leadership roles in virtually every segment of the Engine Business.
 
"Jim's steady, thoughtful, results-oriented approach  combined with his competiveness and deep knowledge of the diesel engine industry  has been especially valuable in keeping the Engine Business focused on remaining strong during the current downturn," Linebarger said. "His understanding of the business now will to help us address a number of cross-business issues that are critical to our long-term success."  
Kelly, a native of Albany, N.Y., earned his bachelor's degree in history from Middlebury College and his master's degree in labor and industrial relations from Cornell University. He and his wife, Terri, currently reside in Columbus, IN.
 
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations. Cummins reported net income of $755 million on sales of $14.3 billion in 2008. Press releases can be found on the Web at . 
www.cummins.com
 
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.

 
 
 
Contact:
 
Mark Land
Executive Director - Corporate Communications
(317) 610-2456
mark.d.land@cummins.com
 
December 16, 2009
 
Cummins announces two executive appointments
 
-- Rich Freeland named President  Engine Business; Anant Talaulicar appointed President  Components Business --
 
COLUMBUS, IN  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today announced that Rich Freeland has been named the next President of the Company's Engine Business. Freeland, currently President  Components Business, will succeed Jim Kelly whose planned departure from his current role was announced by the Company yesterday.
 
Anant Talaulicar will succeed Freeland as president of the Components Business while continuing to serve in his current capacity as Managing Director of Cummins India. Both Freeland and Talaulicar will assume their new roles in March 2010.
 
"Rich has done an outstanding job leading the Components Business and his breadth of experience leading multiple business units, as well as the depth of his prior work in our engine-related businesses will serve him well in his new role," said Cummins President and Chief Operating Officer Tom Linebarger. "Anant is a strong leader with significant success at growing Cummins' business in international markets, which will be invaluable as he expands his responsibilities."
 
Freeland, 52, joined Cummins in 1979 and has held a variety of operational and leadership roles in the Engine, Distribution and Components businesses. He took over the Components Business in February 2008.
 
Under his leadership, the Components Business has improved its profitability, strengthened its processes and done an outstanding job of developing new products, especially those related to meeting the 2010 emissions regulations in the United States.
 
Prior to his role with the Components Business, Freeland ran the Distribution Business from 2005-2008, during which time it became a significant contributor to the Company's profitability. He also has held leadership roles in the PowerCare, Fuel Systems, Purchasing and Heavy Duty Operations organizations, and served as Plant Manager at the Columbus Engine Plant from 1996-2000.
 
Freeland, who lives and works in Columbus, IN, earned his bachelor's degree in industrial management from Purdue University and his MBA from Indiana University.
 
Talaulicar, 48, joined Cummins in 1986 and has led Cummins' India operations since September 2004. Under his leadership, Cummins' business in India has nearly tripled in the past five years, with total consolidated and unconsolidated sales reaching almost $1.8 billion in 2008.
 
Talaulicar has held a number of leadership roles in Power Generation during his tenure at Cummins, serving as General Manager of the Commercial and Consumer lines of business for the Americas. He also has worked in the Corporate Strategy group, and has held finance, manufacturing and general management roles in the Engine Business.
 
Talaulicar earned his bachelor's degree in engineering from Mysore University in India, and master's degrees from the University of Michigan and Tulane University. He will split his time between the Company's headquarters in Columbus, Indiana, and Pune, India.
 
"Rich and Anant are talented leaders who understand our markets and have all the skills necessary to help Cummins position itself for future success," Linebarger said. "I am confident they will make a smooth transition into their new roles as we continue to focus on emerging from the current economic downturn an even stronger company."
 
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations. Cummins reported net income of $755 million on sales of $14.3 billion in 2008. Press releases can be found on the Web at . 
www.cummins.com
 
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


