FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20090430101920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 WASHINGTON, DC  20549
  
FORM 8-K
  
CURRENT REPORT
  
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
  
Date of Report: April 30, 2009
 
  
CUMMINS INC.
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
  
 
500 Jackson Street
 P. O. Box 3005
 Columbus, IN  47202-3005
 (Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
  
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations
and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On April 30, 2009, Cummins Inc. ("Cummins," "the Company," "the registrant," "we," "our," or "us") issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of 2009.  A copy of Cummins' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
  
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99-Press Release dated April 30, 2009
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 30, 2009
  
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
(a)    
Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
(1)
Includes intersegment sales and profit in inventory eliminations and unallocated corporate expenses.  For the three months ended March 29, 2009, unallocated corporate expenses include restructuring charges of $66 million and a $6 million gain related to flood damage insurance recoveries.  For the three months ended December 31, 2008, unallocated corporate expenses include restructuring charges of $37 million and a $36 million decrease in cash surrender value in corporate owned life insurance.  There were no significant unallocated corporate expenses for the three months ended March 30, 2008.
 (2)
Depreciation and amortization as shown on a segment basis excludes the amortization of debt discount that is included in the as Interest expense.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
A reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in the is shown in the table below:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
Earnings before interest, taxes and noncontrolling interests (EBIT)
We define EBIT as earnings or loss before interest expense, income tax expense and noncontrolling interests.  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to consolidated net income attributable to Cummins Inc., for each of the applicable periods:
We believe EBIT is a useful measure of our operating performance for the periods presented as it illustrates our operating performance without regard to financing methods, capital structure or income taxes.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data.
 
 CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
In 2009, the Power Generation segment reorganized and its reporting structure to include the following businesses: Commercial Products, Alternators, Commercial Projects, Power Electronics and Consumer.  Sales by quarter for our Power Generation segment by business for the years 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Contact:
 
Mark Land
Executive Director - Corporate Communications
(317) 610-2456
mark.d.land@cummins.com
 
For Immediate Release
 
April 30, 2009
 
Cummins reports lower revenues and profits due to continued global recession
 
-- Company reduces full-year sales and profit guidance to reflect challenging economic environment --
 
COLUMBUS, IN -- Cummins Inc.  (NYSE: CMI)  today reported lower sales and profit in the first quarter 2009 as the global recession affected demand for the Company's products around the world.
 
Sales for the quarter were $2.44 billion, down 30 percent from $3.47 billion during the same period in 2008. Earnings Before Interest and Taxes of $28 million, or 1.1 percent of sales, fell 91 percent from $315 million, or 9.1 percent of sales, in the first quarter 2008. Net income attributable to Cummins Inc. was $7 million, or $0.04 a share, a 96 percent decrease from $190 million ($0.97 a share) a year ago.
 
The first quarter results include a $66 million charge to cover the costs associated with job reduction actions taken in the quarter. Cummins announced plans to reduce its workforce by more than 4,100 employees and contract workers during the quarter in response to lower demand for its products. Excluding the restructuring charge, net income attributable to Cummins Inc. was $51 million, or $0.26 a share, and EBIT was $94 million, or 3.9 percent of sales.
 
All four of the Company's business segments experienced sales decreases compared to the first quarter 2008, with the largest declines coming from the Engine and Components segments.
 
Based on the first quarter results and Company forecasts for the remainder of the year, Cummins today revised its sales and earnings guidance downward for 2009. The Company now expects 2009 sales to be slightly more than 30 percent lower than 2008 and anticipates EBIT of 5 percent of sales for the year, excluding the restructuring charge.
 
"The first quarter was, as we expected, extremely challenging and we do not see the economy or our markets improving for the remainder of 2009," said Cummins Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso. "We have taken significant actions to lower our costs and improve our productivity in response to the global recession, which has affected virtually every market in which we operate around the world.
 
"We are confident that those actions, which will continue as necessary, will allow us to earn a reasonable profit in 2009, generate positive cash flow and enable us to continue to invest in the products and technologies vital to our future success."
 
In addition to reducing its workforce worldwide, the Company has made significant reductions in discretionary spending and has further prioritized capital expenditures to focus on the most critical projects, especially those associated with the launch of new emission compliant products in 2010. Capital spending in the first quarter was $64 million, compared to $90 million in the same period a year ago and $213 million in the fourth quarter 2008.  
 
"Cash management is a top priority for the Company this year," said Pat Ward, Chief Financial Officer. "We remain well positioned with a strong balance sheet, low debt and significant liquidity. Despite the challenging economic conditions, the Company did not need to use any of the $1.1 billion credit facility that was put in place last summer."
 
At the end of the first quarter, Cummins had $353 million in available cash and cash equivalents and a total available liquidity of $1.8 billion.
 
First quarter details
 
Engine Segment
Sales of $1.49 billion were 32 percent lower than $2.21 billon in the first quarter 2008.  Segment EBIT fell to a loss of $16 million, compared to a profit of $194 million during the same period a year ago.
 
Nearly every market experienced declines compared to the first quarter 2008, with worldwide heavy-duty truck engine shipments down 30 percent; shipments to Chrysler down 45 percent; global medium-duty truck engine shipments down 42 percent and construction industry shipments down 69 percent.
 
The engine segment's joint ventures reported a $3 million loss in the quarter, compared to a $33 million profit the same period in 2008. Selling, Administrative and Research and Development (SAR) expenses fell in absolute dollars, but increased as a percentage of sales from a year ago.
 
Power Generation
Sales of $657 million decreased 17 percent from $787 million in the first quarter 2008. Segment EBIT was $69 million (10.5 percent of sales) compared to $78 million (9.9 percent of sales) during the same period a year ago.  Lower SAR expenses, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of sales, helped improved profitability within the segment.
 
Sales of Commercial generator products fell 6 percent from a year ago, while the segment's Consumer business continued to report extremely weak demand with sales down 59 percent from the first quarter 2008. Sales gains in Africa (34 percent) were more than offset by large drops in North America (25 percent), Latin America (29 percent), India (40 percent) and Western Europe (18 percent).
 
Components
Sales of $530 million declined 35 percent from $820 million in the first quarter 2008. Segment EBIT of $1 million (0.2 percent of sales)fell from $37 million (4.5 percent of sales) the same period a year ago.
 
Revenues fell across all businesses in the segment and in all major geographic markets, as a result of volume declines associated with the global recession. Most of the revenue declines were the result of lower OEM and aftermarket sales in North America and Europe.
 
Filtration business sales decreased 33 percent; turbocharger sales fell 42 percent; fuel systems sales declined 38 percent and exhaust aftertreatment sales decreased 24 percent. SAR expenses fell in total dollars, but increased as a percentage of sales compared to the first quarter 2008.
 
Distribution
Sales of $413 million decreased 7 percent from $445 million during the first quarter 2008, largely as a result of negative currency effects in Europe, Australia and India. Segment EBIT of $58 million (14.0 percent of sales) increased 18 percent from $49 million (11.0 percent of sales) a year ago.
 
Improved joint venture profits and lower SAR expenses, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of sales, strengthened the segment EBIT margin while negative currency effects in the gross margin neutralized pricing gains.
 
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP measure used in this release.  Each is defined and reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
 
Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results today at 10 a.m. EDT. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at www.cummins.com. Participants wishing to view the visuals available with the audio are encouraged to sign-in a few minutes prior to the start of the teleconference.
Webcast information
  
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations. Cummins reported net income of $755 million on sales of $14.3 billion in 2008. Press releases can be found on the Web at . 
www.cummins.com
 
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


