FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20090204102321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC  20549  
FORM 8-K  
CURRENT REPORT  
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Date of Report: February 4, 2009
 
  
CUMMINS INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  
500 Jackson Street P. O. Box 3005
Columbus, IN  47202-3005
(Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):  
see
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations
and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On February 3, 2009, Cummins Inc. ("Cummins," "the Company," "our," or "we")  issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2008.  A copy of Cummins' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99-Press Release dated February 3, 2009
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 4, 2009  
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited) (a)  
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
(1)
Includes intercompany eliminations and unallocated corporate expenses. For the three months ended and the year ended December 31, 2008, Non-segment includes a $36 million decrease in cash surrender value in corporate owned life insurance (COLI).
 (2)
Depreciation and amortization as shown on a segment basis excludes the amortization of debt discount that is included in the as Interest expense.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
 
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)  
 
Earnings before interest, taxes and minority interests (EBIT)
We define EBIT as earnings before interest expense, income tax expense and minority interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries.  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to our consolidated net income, for each of the applicable periods:
 
We believe EBIT is a useful measure of our operating performance for the periods presented as it illustrates our operating performance without regard to financing methods, capital structure or income taxes.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data.
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SELECTED FOOTNOTE DATA
(Unaudited)
 
 
NOTE 1.  EQUITY, ROYALTY AND INTEREST INCOME FROM INVESTEES
Equity, royalty and interest income from investees included in our was as follows:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
NOTE 2.  RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
 
We have executed restructuring actions primarily in the form of voluntary and involuntary separation programs in the fourth quarter of 2008. These actions were in response to the continued deterioration we saw in our U.S. businesses and most key markets around the world in the second half of 2008, as well as a reduction in orders in most U.S. and global markets for 2009.  We reduced our worldwide professional workforce by approximately 650 employees. We offered a voluntary retirement package to certain active professional employees in the United States based on a clearly defined set of criteria. We also took involuntary actions which included certain hourly employees. The compensation packages contained salary and continuation of benefits, including health care, life insurance and outplacement services. The voluntary retirement package was accepted by approximately 150 employees. The remaining reductions of approximately 500 employees were involuntary. The expenses recorded during the year ended December 31, 2008 included severance costs related to both voluntary and involuntary terminations. During 2008, we incurred total pretax expenses related to the restructuring initiative of approximately $37 million. 
 
Employee termination and severance costs were recorded based on approved plans developed by the businesses and corporate management which specified positions to be eliminated, benefits to be paid under existing severance plans or statutory requirements and the expected timetable for completion of the plan.  Estimates of restructuring were made based on information available at the time charges were recorded.  Due to the inherent uncertainty involved, actual amounts paid for such activities may differ from amounts initially recorded and we may need to revise previous estimates.
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SELECTED FOOTNOTE DATA
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 3.  OTHER (EXPENSE) INCOME
Other (expense) income included the following:
 
NOTE 4.  INCOME TAXES
Our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2008 was 12.5 percent compared to 31.3 percent for 2007.  The decrease is primarily due to greater foreign earnings in 2008, which are subject to lower tax rates. The fourth quarter effective tax rate also includes a $10 million (0.8 percent) reduction due to the legislative reinstatement of the U.S. research tax credit. The full-year 2008 effective tax rate was 30.9 percent and we expect our full-year 2009 effective tax rate to be sustained at approximately 31 percent.
 
NOTE 5.  DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Depreciation and amortization expense included in operating activities of the for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $314 million and $290 million, respectively.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 

 
 
 
 
Contact:
 
Mark Land  Director of Public Relations
(317) 610-2456
mark.d.land@cummins.com
 
For Immediate Release
 
February 3, 2009
 
Cummins reports fifth consecutive year of record sales and earnings, despite weaker demand in the fourth quarter
 
Company expects to earn solid profit in 2009 despite forecasted 20 percent drop in sales
 
COLUMBUS, IN  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported its fifth consecutive year of record sales and profits, despite significant global economic challenges that negatively affected fourth quarter performance.
 
For the year, sales increased 10 percent to $14.34 billion, from $13.05 billion in 2007. Net income rose 8 percent to $801 million, or $4.08 per share, compared to $739 million or $3.70 per share the previous year.  Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) were $1.29 billion, or 9.0 percent of sales, compared to $1.23 billion, or 9.4 percent of sales in 2007.
 
Net income included a $37 million pre-tax charge ($0.13 per share) to cover the costs associated with job reductions in the fourth quarter that included reducing its professional workforce by nearly 650 people. Excluding this charge, EBIT was $1.33 billion, or 9.3 percent of sales.
 
As the Company publicly stated in mid-December when it revised its sales and EBIT guidance downward for 2008, market conditions around the world began to deteriorate rapidly and sharply in the fourth quarter as the global recession continued to spread.
 
Fourth quarter sales fell 6 percent to $3.29 billion compared to $3.52 billion during the same period in 2007. Net income dropped to $89 million or $0.45 a share, from $198 million, or $1.00 a share a year ago, while EBIT decreased to $129 million, or 3.9 percent of sales, from $324 million, or 9.2 percent of sales last year.  Excluding the restructuring charge in this quarter, EBIT was $166 million, or 5.0 percent of sales.
 
Sales declines in the Company's Engine and Components segments, driven by sharp demand drops in the global truck and construction markets, more than offset gains in Power Generation and Distribution. All four segments, however, experienced weakening demand during the course of the quarter. The Company's financial performance in the quarter also was negatively affected by lower joint venture income and the impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar.
 
"Given our record-setting performance during the first nine months of the year, the rapid drop in demand in the fourth quarter as a result of the global recession was a major disappointment," said Cummins Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso. "At the same time, we moved quickly to lower our costs and tightly manage our capital spending, and already have taken further action in early 2009."
 
Based on its latest market forecast and the expectation the global economy will not improve in 2009, Cummins today is providing sales and EBIT guidance that is below the Company's 2008 performance. Cummins expects sales in 2009 to be approximately 20 percent lower than 2008, and to earn an EBIT margin of 6.5 percent of sales, excluding restructuring costs associated with the actions announced in the first quarter of 2009.
 
Sales are forecast to drop across all business segments, with the largest decline expected to come from the Components and Engine segments.  All business segments, however, are expected to be profitable in 2009 and the Company will continue to aggressively reduce costs while investing in key growth opportunities.
 
In January, Cummins announced that it will reduce its worldwide professional workforce by at least an additional 800 people by March 1 and freeze pay for most salaried workers. In addition, the Company's officers had their pay reduced by 10 percent for 2009.
 
By the end of March, the Company will have reduced its global workforce by more than 1,400 salaried professionals and more than 1,300 hourly manufacturing plant employees  or about 6 percent of its total workforce  since the beginning of the fourth quarter 2008. During that time, Cummins has taken a number of other steps to align its costs with the current and expected future demand for its products, including:
 
Cutting 2,500 contract and temporary workers
Freezing hiring, except in rare cases
Reducing the number of corporate officers by 10 percent by March 31
Temporarily closing or shortening work weeks at a number of manufacturing facilities
Cutting discretionary spending
Reducing IT spending
Reducing planned capital expenditures in 2009 significantly from original planned levels, while continuing to focus on critical needs such as the necessary development work to meet new emissions standards in the U.S. in 2010.
Despite the difficult economic climate, the Company's balance sheet remains strong with low debt, healthy cash reserves and access to a $1.1 billion credit revolver. Cash generation and investment in future products, such as those to meet new U.S. emissions standards in 2010, and to support customer requirements will be a priority in 2009. In light of the current economic conditions, the Company also has suspended its stock repurchase program but remains committed to maintaining its current dividend.
 
"We are in an extraordinarily challenging period, and while we don't expect overall economic conditions to improve in 2009, we entered this recession in the strongest financial position in the Company's history," Solso said. "Our experienced management team understands what it takes for Cummins to be successful in difficult times, and I am confident that we will do the hard work and make the difficult decisions necessary to emerge from this downturn well positioned to resume our recent history of profitable growth."
 
Fourth quarter details
 
Engine Segment
Sales of $1.94 billion were 10 percent lower than $2.16 billion in same period a year ago. Segment EBIT fell 79 percent to $25 million, or 1.3 percent of sales, compared to $120 million, or 5.6 percent of sales, in 2007.
 
Engine shipments declined in nearly all on-highway markets, including heavy-duty truck (9 percent); medium-duty truck (9 percent); Chrysler/light-duty auto (34 percent) recreational vehicle (72 percent) and construction (30 percent). The segment's performance also was negatively affected by higher material costs, currency effects, increased warranty expense and lower income from its joint ventures.
 
Power Generation Segment
Sales increased 6 percent to $887 million compared to $840 million a year ago, while Segment EBIT of $75 million, or 8.5 percent of sales, decreased 13 percent compared to $86 million, or 10.2 percent of sales, in the same period in 2007.
 
Commercial generator sales improved 14 percent to $562 million, driven by strength in Western Europe and China, and more than offset a large decline in the Company's consumer generator business as a result of continued weakness in the U.S. Higher material costs and unfavorable currency effects offset improved pricing, resulting in lower segment EBIT.
 
Components Segment
Sales decreased 13 percent to $676 million, from $777 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, while Segment EBIT of $2 million, or 0.3 percent of sales, fell 96 percent from $47 million, or 6.0 percent of sales, the same period a year ago. In addition to lower sales, unfavorable currency effects, increased warranty expense and the gain associated with the sale of a business in the fourth quarter of 2007 contributed to lower year-over-year Segment EBIT.
 
Sales were flat in the Company's exhaust aftertreatment business, but fell significantly in the other three businesses in the segment: Fuel Systems sales fell 25 percent, Turbocharger sales fell 18 percent and Filtration sales decreased 11 percent as the segment felt the effects of the demand drop in truck and construction equipment markets around much of the world.
 
Distribution Segment
Sales increased 19 percent to $557 million, from $468 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. Excluding the impact of currency, sales grew in all nine of the business' geographic regions, led by sales of high horsepower engines to industrial markets and power generator equipment. Results from a recently consolidated distributor location in the United States also contributed significantly to the sales gain.
 
Segment EBIT of $64 million, or 11.5 percent of sales, was 14 percent higher than $56 million, or 12.0 percent of sales, during the same period in 2007.  The strong Segment EBIT performance came despite unfavorable currency effects, primarily in Europe, as a result of the strong U.S. dollar. 
 
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations. Cummins reported net income of $801 million on sales of $14.34 billion in 2008. Press releases can be found on the Web at . 
www.cummins.com
 
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP measure used in this release.  Each is defined and reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
 
Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results today at 10 a.m. EST. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at www.cummins.com. Participants wishing to view the visuals available with the audio are encouraged to sign-in a few minutes prior to the start of the teleconference
Webcast information
 
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


