FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20091208140250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC  20549  
FORM 8-K  
CURRENT REPORT  
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Date of Report: December 8, 2009  
  
CUMMINS INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
500 Jackson Street P. O. Box 3005 Columbus, IN  47202-3005 (Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
d)  Election of New Director
 
On December 8, 2009, the Board of Directors of Cummins Inc. (the "Company") elected Franklin R. Chang-Daz, Ph.D., as a director of the Company to serve until the Company's next annual meeting of shareholders.  Dr. Chang-Daz has been appointed to serve on the Board's Audit, Finance, Governance and Nominating, and Safety, Environment and Technology Committees.
As a non-employee director, Dr. Chang-Daz will participate in the Company's standard compensation policies and programs for non-employee directors as described under the heading "Director Compensation" beginning on page 11 of the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 1, 2009.
The Company's press release with respect to this matter is attached as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99 - Press Release dated December 8, 2009
 
 
SIGNATURE  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  
Date: December 8, 2009  
 
CUMMINS INC.
 
Exhibit Index to Current Report on Form 8-K
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
(99)                  Press Release dated December 8, 2009
 
 
 

 
 
Contact:
 
Mark Land  Director of Public Relations
(317) 610-2456
mark.d.land@cummins.com
  
December 8, 2009
 
Franklin Chang-Daz elected to Cummins Board of Directors
 
COLUMBUS, IND.  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) announced today that Franklin Chang-Daz, Chairman and CEO of Ad Astra Rocket Company and former NASA astronaut, has been elected to the Company's Board of Directors. 
 
Chang-Daz, 59, becomes the 10 Cummins Board member, and will serve on the Board's Safety, Environment and Technology committee, as well as the Audit, Finance and Governance and Nominating committees.  His term begins immediately and he will stand for re-election at the Company's annual meeting next May.  All Cummins directors are elected annually.
th
 
Chang-Daz, a native of Costa Rica who moved to the United States as a teen, brings an extensive technical background to Cummins.  In 1980, three years after graduating from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with his doctorate in nuclear engineering, Chang-Daz was selected by NASA to be an astronaut candidate and earned his astronaut wings the following year.
 
During his 25 years at NASA, Chang-Daz was an integral part of the Space Shuttle program.  While at NASA, he flew seven shuttle missions, logging more than 1,600 hours in space, and continued his research in applied plasma physics.
 
Chang-Daz retired from NASA in 2005 and formed Ad Astra Rocket Company to continue his pioneering work in the VASIMR rocket engine design, which NASA plans to deploy on the International Space Station in 2013.
 
"Franklin's expertise in advanced engineering and engine technology will be invaluable to Cummins as we continue our work to be a technical leader in all our markets," said Cummins Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso. "In addition, Franklin's long history of public service, both at NASA and in his work to promote education in Costa Rica and throughout Latin America, are a good fit with Cummins' Mission and our work to improve the communities in which we operate."
 
Chang-Daz was honored with the Liberty Medal in 1986 by President Ronald Reagan and was a four-time recipient of NASA's Distinguished Service Medal, the highest honor awarded by the agency. He currently is leading Costa Rica's "Strategy for the XXI Century," a countrywide initiative aimed at transforming Costa Rica into a fully developed nation over the next 40 years.
 
Chang-Daz and his wife Peggy alternate their home between suburban Houston and Liberia, Costa Rica. The couple has four daughters, ranging in age from 14 to 36. In addition to his work at Ad Astra Rocket, Chang-Daz is an adjunct professor of physics at Rice University and The University of Houston.
 
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations. Cummins reported net income of $755 million on sales of $14.3 billion in 2008. Press releases can be found on the Web at . 
www.cummins.com
 
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


