FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20100727170102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 WASHINGTON, DC  20549
  
FORM 8-K
  
CURRENT REPORT
  
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
  
Date of Report: July 27, 2010
 
  
CUMMINS INC.
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
  
 
500 Jackson Street
 P. O. Box 3005
 Columbus, IN  47202-3005
 (Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (  General Instruction A.2. below):
see
  
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 27, 2010, Cummins Inc. issued a press release regarding its release of second quarter results.  
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations
and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On July 27, 2010, Cummins Inc. ("Cummins," "the Company," "the registrant," "we," "our," or "us") issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the second quarter of 2010.  A copy of Cummins' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
  
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99-Press Release dated July 27, 2010
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 27, 2010
  
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
 
 
  
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
                                                                                                            
A reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in the is shown in the table below:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
 
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
 
Earnings before interest, taxes, noncontrolling interests and restructuring and other charges
 
We define EBIT as earnings or loss before interest expense, income tax expense and noncontrolling interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries (EBIT).  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to "Net income attributable to Cummins Inc.," for each of the applicable periods:
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
 
Net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding restructuring charges
 
We believe this is a useful measure of our operating performance for the periods presented as it illustrates our operating performance without regard to restructuring.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data.  The following table reconciles net income attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding restructuring and other charges to "Net income attributable to Cummins Inc." for the three and six months ended June 28, 2009.  There were no restructuring actions taken in the three or six months ended June 27, 2010 or three months ended March 28, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SELECTED FOOTNOTE DATA
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 1.  EQUITY, ROYALTY AND INTEREST INCOME FROM INVESTEES
 
Equity, royalty and interest income from investees included in our for the interim reporting periods was as follows:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
NOTE 2.  OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
 
Other income (expense) included the following:
 
 
NOTE 3.  INCOME TAXES
 
Our effective tax rate for the year is expected to approximate 31 percent, absent any additional discrete period activity.  Our tax rate is generally less than the 35 percent U.S. income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates on foreign income.  The tax rates for the three and six month periods ended June 27, 2010, were 31 percent and 32 percent.  The tax rate for the six month period includes a discrete tax charge of $7 million (one percent) related to the enactment of the "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act."  The tax rate for the three month period ended March 28, 2010, was 34 percent and also included a discrete charge of $7 million (3 percent) related to the enactment of the "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.'
 
Our effective tax rates for the comparable prior year periods were 29 percent and 30 percent, respectively.  These rates were less than the 35 percent U.S. income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates on foreign income.
 

Contact:
 
Mark Land
Executive Director - Corporate Communications
(317) 610-2456
mark.d.land@cummins.com
 
July 27, 2010
 
Cummins reports sharply higher second quarter sales and profitability, increases full-year guidance 
Manufacturing productivity improvements and performance in international markets fuel growth
Company now expects to earn 12 percent EBIT on $13 billion in sales in 2010
COLUMBUS, IN  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported for the second quarter its highest quarterly earnings as a percentage of sales in more than 25 years. Continued productivity improvements in the Company's manufacturing operations, as well as strong performance in international markets, drove significant year-over-year gains across all the Company's business segments.
 
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) was $401 million, or 12.5 percent of sales, up from $109 million or 4.5 percent of sales in the second quarter of 2009. EBIT also improved from 10.7 percent in the first quarter of 2010.  For the first time ever, all four segments posted quarterly EBIT in excess of 10 percent of sales.
 
Sales of $3.21 billion in the second quarter were 32 percent higher than $2.43 billion in the same quarter in 2009. Net income attributable to Cummins Inc. in the second quarter more than quadrupled to $246 million, or $1.25 a share, compared to $56 million, or $0.28 a share, in the same period a year ago.
 
The sales gains were led by the Company's Engine and Components segments, which each reported 45 percent sales improvements compared to the same period in 2009.  Power Generation sales increased 16 percent, while Distribution sales rose 24 percent.  The Company delivered these strong results even though the North American heavy duty truck market remains weak as result of the transition to new on-highway emissions standards at the beginning of the year.
 
Based on the Company's performance in the first half of 2010 and its forecast for the rest of the year, Cummins today increased its financial guidance for 2010. The Company now expects to generate EBIT of 12 percent of sales on revenues of $13 billion.
 
"We had an outstanding quarter," said Cummins Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso. "The work we have done to strengthen our manufacturing operations during the downturn has resulted in significant productivity gains, and we continue to benefit from our leadership position in large and growing international markets such as China, India and Brazil."
 
The Company's non- U.S. markets continued to perform well, with sales up 51 percent outside the United States in the second quarter compared to a year ago. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for 64 percent of the Company's revenue in the quarter.
 
The Company continued to return value to shareholders by repurchasing $123 million of its shares during the second quarter. The Company has now repurchased $310 million worth of stock under its current $500 million authorization.
 
Even with the stock repurchase, the Company improved its cash position from the first quarter of the year. The Company generated $301 million in cash from operations in the second quarter, compared to $245 million in the same period last year and $126 million in the first quarter.
 
"Our strong performance during the downturn has allowed us to make the investments necessary to position the Company for a period of long-term profitable growth as our markets continue to improve," said Cummins President and Chief Operating Officer Tom Linebarger. "We are working hard to prepare for future growth, even as we continue to concentrate on managing the business through this challenging economic period."
 
In other recent news:
 
 -      In early July, Cummins announced a $100 million expansion of the High-Horsepower Technical Center and high-horsepower engine product line in Seymour, Ind. The investment in the newly renamed Seymour Engine Plant is expected to add about 200 engineering and manufacturing jobs over the next five years.
 
 -      The Company increased the quarterly cash dividend on its common stock by 50 percent to 26.25 cents per share from 17.5 cents per share. The dividend is payable on Sept. 1, 2010 to shareholders of record on Aug. 23, 2010. Cummins last raised its dividend in July 2008.
 
 -      Cummins negotiated a $1.24 billion, four-year credit facility to replace its previous $1.1 billion line of credit, which was set to expire in 2011. The revolver, combined with the Company's strong cash balance, ensures that Cummins will have adequate liquidity over the next several years.
 
 -      Moody's Investor Service raised the Company's senior unsecured debt rating from Baa3 to Baa2 and said the rating outlook remains "stable." In raising its investment grade rating, Moody's cited Cummins' ability to "maintain solid debt protection measures despite the most severe downturn in the North American medium and heavy-duty truck industry, and the broader weakening in the global economy."
 
 -      Cummins also was recognized for its long-term return to shareholders recently by magazine, which ranked Cummins' stock performance 12among the Standard & Poor's 500 companies from March 2005- March 2010.
Bloomberg BusinessWeek
th
 
Second quarter details (all comparisons to same period in 2009)
Engine Segment
 -          Sales - $1.9 billion, up 45 percent
 -          Segment EBIT  $197 million, or 10.4 percent of sales, compared to a loss of $4 million. EBIT percentage is a quarterly record for the Engine segment.
 -          Total on-highway sales increased 36 percent
o        Global heavy-duty truck engine sales declined 14 percent as result of transition to 2010 EPA-compliant engines in North America, where unit sales declined 58 percent.
o        Medium-duty truck and bus sales increased 47 percent on strength of international markets and North American share gains
o        Light-duty auto and RV sales more than tripled from very low base in 2009 when Chrysler ceased truck production for several weeks as part of its reorganization efforts
 -          Industrial sales increased 49 percent
o        Construction sales increased 111 percent led by infrastructure investments in emerging markets such as China
o        Mining sales increased 32 percent
Power Generation
 -          Sales  $708 million, up 16 percent
 -          Segment EBIT  $76 million, or 10.7 percent of sales, compared to $41 million or 6.7 percent of sales
 -          Commercial Products sales rose 20 percent; Commercial Projects up 24 percent; Consumer sales increased 48 percent; Generator Technologies sales were flat; and Power Electronics     down 6 percent
 -          Sales gains led by India, China, Latin America and Russia. North American sales declined 16 percent
 
Components
 -          Sales  $729 million up 45 percent
 -          Segment EBIT  $75 million, or 10.3 percent of sales, compared to a loss of $10 million. EBIT percentage was a quarterly record for the Components segment.
 -          Turbo Technologies sales  increased by 69 percent; Emission Solutions rose 53 percent, Fuel Systems up 41 percent, Filtration up 26 percent
 -          Higher volumes, increased product content on the aftertreatment product and manufacturing productivity improvements contributed to EBIT gain
 
Distribution
 -          Sales  $576 million, an increase of 24 percent
 -          Segment EBIT  $69 million, or 12 percent of sales, compared to $55 million, or 11.9 percent of sales
 -          Consolidation of Western Canada distributor contributed 13 percent growth in revenue
 -          Organic growth of 7.5 percent from global aftermarket and industrial engine sales and service in support of construction and mining markets
 
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP measures used in this release.  EBIT is defined and reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
 
Webcast information
Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results today at 10 a.m. EDT. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at www.cummins.com. Participants wishing to view the visuals available with the audio are encouraged to sign-in a few minutes prior to the start of the teleconference.
 
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations. The Company reported net income attributable to Cummins Inc. of $428 million on sales of $10.8 billion in 2009. Press releases can be found on the Web at . Follow Cummins on Twitter at http://twitter.com/cummins.
www.cummins.com
 
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


