FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20101027151405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC  20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report: 
October 27, 2010
 
  
CUMMINS INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
500 Jackson Street P. O. Box 3005
Columbus
, IN  47202-3005
(Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 26, 2010, Cummins Inc. issued a press release regarding its release of third quarter results.   
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations
and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On October 26, 2010, Cummins Inc. ("Cummins," "the Company," "the registrant," "we," "our," or, "us") issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the third quarter of 2010.  A copy of Cummins' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.  
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99-Press Release dated October 26, 2010
SIGNATURE  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: 
October 27, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
(a)    Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
(a)    Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
(a)    Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited) (a)
 
 
(a)   
Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)  
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
                                                                                                     
A reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in the is shown in the table below:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
 
 
Earnings before interest, taxes, noncontrolling interests and restructuring and other charges
 
We define EBIT as earnings or loss before interest expense, income tax expense, noncontrolling interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries and restructuring and other charges (EBIT).  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to "Net income attributable to Cummins Inc.," for each of the applicable periods:
 
 
 
 CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
 
Net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding restructuring and other charges
 
We believe this is a useful measure of our operating performance for the periods presented as it illustrates our operating performance without regard to restructuring.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data.  The following table reconciles net income attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding restructuring and other charges to "Net income attributable to Cummins Inc." for the three and nine months ended September 27, 2009.  There were no restructuring actions taken in the three or nine months ended September 26, 2010 or three months ended June 27, 2010.
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SELECTED FOOTNOTE DATA
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 1.  EQUITY, ROYALTY AND INTEREST INCOME FROM INVESTEES
 
Equity, royalty and interest income from investees included in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the interim reporting periods was as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 2.  OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
 
Other income (expense) included the following:
 
 
 
NOTE 3.  INCOME TAXES
 
Our effective tax rate for the year is expected to approximate 30 percent, absent any additional discrete period activity.  Our tax rate is generally less than the 35 percent U.S. income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates on foreign income.  The tax rates for the three and nine month periods ended September 26, 2010, were 30 percent and 31 percent. In July 2010, the United Kingdom passed tax legislation which reduces our U.K. tax rate from 28 percent to 27 percent beginning in 2011.  While the reduced tax rate will benefit future operations, we had an additional charge to our third quarter tax provision of approximately $2 million to reduce the value of our U.K. deferred tax assets. The tax rate for the nine month period includes a discrete tax charge of $7 million related to the enactment of the "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act."
 
In August 2010, the U.S. passed the "Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act" containing a number of international tax provisions which limit the foreign tax credits that can be claimed by U.S. corporations.  In the third quarter, we also considered the unremitted earnings of certain German and Indian subsidiaries of our U.K. group to be permanently reinvested.  Neither of these items had a material impact to our tax rate. 
 
Our effective tax rates for the comparable prior year periods were 25 percent and 27 percent, respectively.  These rates were less than the 35 percent U.S. income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates on foreign income.
 
 
 

Contact:
 
Mark Land
Executive Director - Corporate Communications
(317) 610-2456
mark.d.land@cummins.com
 
Oct. 26, 2010
 
Cummins reports sharply higher sales and profits in the third quarter led by continued strength in international markets
 
 
Company raises full-year guidance to 12.5 percent EBIT on $13 billion in sales in 2010
 
COLUMBUS, IN  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported that both third quarter sales and profits increased sharply from the same period a year ago. The Company's continued strong performance in international markets was a primary driver of the improved results.
 
Sales of $3.40 billion in the third quarter rose 34 percent from $2.53 billion in the same quarter in 2009. Net income attributable to Cummins Inc. in the third quarter tripled to $283 million, or $1.44 a share, compared to $95 million, or $0.48 a share, in the same period a year ago.
 
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) was $449 million, or 13.2 percent of sales, up from $177 million or 7.0 percent of sales, excluding restructuring charges, in the third quarter of 2009.
 
The Company's third quarter results include a pre-tax benefit of $32 million ($21 million after-tax, or $0.11 share) related to a favorable legal ruling in Brazil on the tax treatment of imports during the period 2004-2008.
 
The sales gains were led by the Company's Engine and Power Generation segments, which each reported 44 percent sales improvements compared to the same period in 2009.  Distribution sales increased 36 percent, while Components sales rose 30 percent.
 
The Engine segment reported its best EBIT percentage in Company history at 10.8 percent of sales, despite continued weakness in the North American truck engine markets related to EPA emissions changes and slow economic recovery in the United States.
 
Power Generation matched its quarterly best EBIT percentage at 12.3 percent, while the $74 million in EBIT reported by the Distribution segment was a record for a single quarter. EBIT for the Components segment doubled from the same period last year.
 
 
 
 
 
"Our products continue to perform well in the market and our 2010 engine launch in North America has gone extremely well," said Cummins President and Chief Operating Officer Tom Linebarger. "We have sold nearly 37,000 medium- and heavy-duty engines in North America this year, and the customer feedback we have received indicates that the engines are delivering on our promise of reliability and improved fuel economy."
 
Based on the Company's performance so far this year and its forecast for the fourth quarter, Cummins raised its full-year financial guidance to an EBIT of 12.5 percent of sales on revenues of $13 billion.
 
"We continued to build on our strong performance this year with an outstanding third quarter," said Cummins Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso. "Our strength in large international markets provided significant benefits to the Company and we continue to see productivity improvements in our manufacturing operations."
 
Sales in the Company's non- U.S. markets increased 56 percent from the third quarter 2009 and accounted for 63 percent of Cummins' consolidated revenues, consistent with the first two quarters of the year.
 
Cummins' operating performance enabled its cash position to remain strong in the quarter and allowed the Company to continue to invest in the business to meet the increasing demands for our products.
 
The Company also continued to return value to shareholders by repurchasing $79 million of its shares during the second quarter. The Company has now repurchased $389 million in stock under its current $500 million authorization.
 
In other highlights from the quarter:
 
Cummins increased the quarterly cash dividend on its common stock by 50 percent to 26.25 cents per share from 17.5 cents per share.
Standard & Poor's increased its long-term credit rating on Cummins to BBB+ from BBB. In increasing its investment grade rating, S&P cited the company's "improved performance" and "conservative financial policy."
Cummins was named to the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index for the sixth consecutive year. The index recognizes the top 10 percent of the world's largest public companies for their economic, environmental and corporate responsibility leadership.
 
Third quarter details (all comparisons to same period in 2009)
Engine Segment
Sales - - $2.1 billion, up 44 percent
Segment EBIT  $223 million, or 10.8 percent of sales, compared $61 million or 4.2 percent of sales.
Total on-highway sales increased 17 percent
o   Medium-duty truck and bus sales increased 46 percent on strength of Brazilian truck market.
o   Light-duty auto and RV doubled from 2009 when Chrysler ceased truck production for several weeks as part of its reorganization efforts.
o   Global heavy-duty truck engine sales declined 20 percent as result of transition to 2010 EPA-compliant engines in North America, where unit sales declined 54 percent.
 
 
 
Industrial sales increased 72 percent
o   International sales increased 96 percent, led by construction engine demand in emerging markets.
o   Mining sales doubled due to increased demand for coal and other commodities.
Stationary power engine sales increased by 144 percent, primarily due to increased power generation demand, especially for high horsepower engines.
 
Power Generation
Sales  $791 million, up 44 percent
Segment EBIT  $97 million, or 12.3 percent of sales, compared to $23 million or 4.2 percent of sales. Third quarter of 2009 represented the low point of the current economic cycle for Power Generation segment.
Commercial Products sales rose 64 percent; Commercial Projects up 26 percent; Consumer sales increased 32 percent; Generator Technologies rose 13 percent; and Power Electronics increased 3 percent.
Sales outside of North American increased 69 percent, led by the India, Latin America, South Pacific and the U.K. North American sales declined 3 percent.
Components
Sales  $769 million up 30 percent
Segment EBIT  $63 million, or 8.2 percent of sales, compared to $31 million, or 5.2 percent of sales
Emission Solutions sales increased by 47 percent; Turbo Technologies rose 38 percent; Filtration up 18 percent; Fuel Systems increased 17 percent.
Increased aftertreatment content on 2010 North American truck engines led Emission Solutions sales gains; Filtration sales increased in all regions; Turbo Technologies and Fuel Systems benefited from improved aftermarket sales and stronger sales in China.
 
Distribution
Sales  $573 million, an increase of 36 percent
Segment EBIT  $74 million, or 12.9 percent of sales, compared to $55 million, or 13.0 percent of sales
Consolidation of Western Canada distributor in first quarter 2010 accounted for $68 million in sales and $5 million in EBIT during quarter.
Sales increased in all regions and product/service segments (engines, power generation, parts, and service) compared to 2009.
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP measures used in this release.  EBIT is defined and reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
 
 
 
 
 
Webcast information
Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results today at 10 a.m. EDT. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at . Participants wishing to view the visuals available with the audio are encouraged to sign-in a few minutes prior to the start of the teleconference.
www.cummins.com
 
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations. The Company reported net income attributable to Cummins Inc. of $428 million on sales of $10.8 billion in 2009. Press releases can be found on the Web at . Follow Cummins on Twitter at .
www.cummins.com
http://twitter.com/cummins
 
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


