FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20110726172314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC  20549
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report: 
July 26, 2011
 
  
CUMMINS INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
500 Jackson Street P. O. Box 3005
Columbus, IN  47202-3005
(Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 26, 2011, Cummins Inc. issued a press release regarding its release of second quarter results.   
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On July 26, 2011, Cummins Inc. ("Cummins," "the Company," "the registrant," "we," "our," or, "us") issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the second quarter of 2011.  A copy of Cummins' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.  
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99-Press Release dated July 26, 2011
SIGNATURE  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 26, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
                                                                                                            
A reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in the is shown in the table below:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SELECTED FOOTNOTE DATA
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 1.  EQUITY, ROYALTY AND INTEREST INCOME FROM INVESTEES
 
Equity, royalty and interest income from investees included in our for the interim reporting periods was as follows:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
NOTE 2.  SALE OF EXHAUST BUSINESS
 
In January 2011, we reached an agreement to sell certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business which manufactures exhaust products and select components for emission systems for a variety of applications.  The transaction closed in the second quarter of 2011.  This business was historically included in our Components segment.  The sales price was $123 million.  We recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $68 million, which included an allocation of goodwill of $19 million.  The transaction has a working capital adjustment mechanism that will be determined in the third quarter.  We do not expect a significant change to the measurement of the gain. The gain has been excluded from segment results as it was not considered by management in its evaluation of operating results for the three and six months ended June 26, 2011.
 
Sales for this business were $171 million, $126 million and $169 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  Income before income taxes for this business was approximately $22 million, $11 million and $19 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
 
We will enter into supply and other agreements with the operations that will represent ongoing involvement and as such, the results of these operations will not be presented as discontinued operations.
 
NOTE 3.  INCOME TAXES
 
Our effective tax rate for the year is expected to approximate 29.5 percent, absent any discrete period activity.  Our tax rate is generally less than the 35 percent U.S. income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates on foreign income and research tax credits.  The tax rates for the three and six month periods ended June 26, 2011, were 29.5 percent and 29.8 percent.  The tax rate for the three and six month periods ended June 26, 2011, includes a discrete tax charge of $4 million related to the enactment of state law changes in Indiana.
 
Our effective tax rates for the comparable prior year periods were 31.1 percent and 32.2 percent, respectively.  The tax rate for the six month period includes a discrete tax charge of $7 million (one percent) related to the enactment of the "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act."  The lower rate in 2011 compared to 2010 is a result of the geographic mix of earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
 
Earnings before interest, taxes and noncontrolling interests
 
We define EBIT as earnings or loss before interest expense, income tax expense and noncontrolling interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries (EBIT).  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to "Net income attributable to Cummins Inc.," for each of the applicable periods:
 
 
Net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding gain on sale of business
 
We believe this is a useful measure of our operating performance for the periods presented as it illustrates our underlying operating performance and trends without regard to the gain related to the sale of our exhaust business.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data.  The following table reconciles net income attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding gain on sale of business to "Net income attributable to Cummins Inc." for the three and six months ended June 26, 2011. 
=
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
BUSINESS UNIT SALES DATA
(Unaudited)
 
Engine segment net sales by market
 
 
Unit shipments by engine classification (including unit shipments to Power Generation)
 
 
Power generation segment sales by business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
BUSINESS UNIT SALES DATA
(Unaudited)
 
Component segment sales by business
 
 
Distribution segment sales by product
 
 
 
 

Contact:
 
Janet Williams
Director - Corporate Communications
(317) 610-2488
janet.williams@cummins.com
 
July 26, 2011
 
Cummins reports record second quarter results
 
 -      
Raises full-year revenue guidance to $18 billion, EBIT to 14.5 percent
 
COLUMBUS, IN  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported record sales and earnings for the second quarter on strong growth in nearly every global market. The Company's Engine, Components and Distribution segments each delivered record sales and earnings.
 
Second quarter sales were $4.6 billion, up 45 percent from the same period last year. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) were $775 million and included a $68 million gain on the sale of the exhaust business from our Components segment. Excluding the gain from the sale of the exhaust business, EBIT was $707 million, or 15.2 percent of sales, the highest level and percent of sales the company has reported in any quarterly period in its history.
  
Net income attributable to Cummins Inc. in the second quarter was $505 million or $2.60 per diluted share. Excluding the $68 million gain ($37 million after tax or $0.19 per share), the Company reported earnings of $2.41 per share compared to $1.25 per share in the second quarter of 2010.
 
"The Company's performance in the second quarter underscores the success of our long-term strategy to diversify and seek profitable growth across geographies and end markets," says Tim Solso, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "As a result of our efforts over the last 10 years, Cummins is better positioned than ever to grow in this global economy."
 
As a result of the Company's performance in the quarter and its outlook for the remainder of the year, Cummins today increased both its sales and EBIT forecast for 2011. The Company now expects to earn 14.5 percent EBIT on $18 billion in sales in 2011.  This forecast excludes any current or future gains from the sale of businesses.
 
Engine segment sales of $2.9 billion were up 53 percent compared to the same quarter a year ago. They were driven by strong growth in global truck markets and off-highway markets including mining and oil and gas. Engine EBIT was $377 million, or 13 percent of sales. 
 
Within the Engine segment, Cummins' EPA-2010 engines continue to perform well in terms of reliability and fuel economy. In North America, Cummins has shipped 126,000 medium- and heavy-duty engines equipped with Selective Catalytic Reduction aftertreatment devices to truck and bus customers.
 
The Components segment, driven by recovery in North American on-highway markets, had its first billion-plus sales quarter. Sales of $1 billion were up 42 percent year-over-year, and segment EBIT was a record $120 million or 11.6 percent of sales.  The gain on the sale of the exhaust business was not included in the segment results.
 
The Distribution segment saw a sales increase of 36 percent compared to the second quarter of 2010 to $785 million as a result of strong demand in oil and gas, mining and power generation markets. Segment EBIT of $106 million, or 13.5 percent of sales, was a quarterly record.
 
Cummins' Power Generation segment had sales of $909 million, a year-over-year increase of 28 percent, while segment EBIT was $105 million or 11.6 percent of sales. Revenue growth was strongest in the U.S., Europe and China.
 
The Company's non- U.S. markets continued to show strong growth and Cummins had record sales in Brazil, India and China.
 
"I am very optimistic about Cummins' future," said Tom Linebarger, President and Chief Operating Officer. "We are experiencing strong global demand in most of our markets.  Our products are performing very well, we have strong leadership positions, and we are delivering strong profitability in all four businesses."
 
In other developments:
 
The Company increased its dividend by 52 percent.
Cummins repurchased $183 million worth of stock, or 1.6 million shares.
Fitch Ratings increased Cummins' credit rating to A-.
 
Second quarter details (all comparisons to the same period in 2010)
 
Engine Segment
 
Sales - $2.9 billion, up 53 percent
Segment EBIT - $377 million, or 13 percent of sales, compared to $197 million or 10.4 percent of sales
Engine shipments to the worldwide medium-duty truck markets were up by 84 percent
Shipments to worldwide heavy-duty truck markets were up 159 percent
Oil and gas shipments rose 174 percent
 
Power Generation
 
Sales - $909 million, up 28 percent
Segment EBIT - $105 million or 11.6 percent of sales, compared to $76 million or 10.7 percent
Commercial products business sales increased because of improving economic conditions in most regions, particularly in Asia, North America, Brazil and the U.K.
Generator technologies sales increased in most regions, especially in Western Europe, Eastern Asia and the U.K.
 
Components
 
Sales - $1.0 billion, up 42 percent
EBIT - $120 million, or 11.6 percent of sales, compared to $75 million or 10.3 percent of sales
Emission solutions business sales were driven by higher volume and technology content in North American EPA 2010 aftertreatment systems and increased demand for Euro V aftertreatment systems in Europe
Turbo technologies business sales were up because of increased demand in North America, Europe and India from OEMs
 
Distribution
 
Sales - $785 million, up 36 percent
EBIT - $106 million or 13.5 percent of sales, compared to $69 million or 12 percent of sales
Revenue growth was driven by strong global demand for whole goods and parts
 
Click  here  to read the financial statements from the second quarter. www.cummins.com  
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP measure used in this release, and is defined and
reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
Webcast information
Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results today at 10 a.m. EST. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at 
. Participants wishing to view the visuals available with the audio are encouraged to sign-in a few minutes prior to the start of the teleconference.
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins employs approximately 40,000 people worldwide and serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 6,000 dealer locations. Cummins earned $1.0 billion on sales of $13.2 billion in 2010. Press releases can be found on the Web at
www.cummins.com
.
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


