FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20110426132204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC  20549
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report: 
April 26, 2011
 
  
CUMMINS INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
500 Jackson Street P. O. Box 3005
Columbus, IN  47202-3005
(Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 26, 2011, Cummins Inc. issued a press release regarding its release of first quarter results.   
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On April 26, 2011, Cummins Inc. ("Cummins," "the Company," "the registrant," "we," "our," or, "us") issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of 2011.  A copy of Cummins' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.  
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
SIGNATURE  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 26, 2011
 
 
 

Contact:
 
Mark Land
Executive Director - Corporate Communications
(317) 610-2456
mark.d.land@cummins.com
 
April 26, 2011
 
Cummins reports strong sales and profits in first quarter
 
-   
Company increases full-year guidance; now expects to earn 14% EBIT on $17 billion in sales
 
COLUMBUS, IN  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported sharply higher sales and earnings compared to the first quarter of 2010 on continued strength in key international markets, a recovering North American truck market and productivity improvements.
 
First quarter sales of $3.9 billion were up 56 percent from $2.5 billion in the same period in 2010. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) were $532 million or 13.8 percent of sales, double the Company's earnings from the same period a year ago. EBIT as a percentage of sales in the first quarter was at its highest level in at least 25 years.
 
Net income attributable to Cummins Inc. was $343 million ($1.75 per share) compared to $149 million (75 cents per share) in the first quarter of 2010.
 
 "Our outstanding first quarter results demonstrate that we are well positioned to take advantage of our significant growth opportunities as markets around the world continue to recover," said Tim Solso, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "The work we have done over the past two years to keep the Company strong during the global economic recession is paying off today."
 
As a result of the Company's performance in the first quarter and its forecast for the remainder of the year, Cummins today increased both its EBIT and sales guidance for 2011. The Company now expects to earn 14 percent EBIT on $17 billion in sales in 2011.
 
Engine segment sales of $2.4 billion were up 68 percent compared to the same quarter a year ago, which was artificially weak due to a change in emissions standards and the economic downturn. Segment EBIT of $290 million, or 12.1 percent of sales, was a quarterly record.
 
Engine shipments in the global heavy-duty truck market more than tripled year-over-year, while medium-duty truck engine shipments increased 114 percent. In addition, shipments to global industrial markets such as construction (up 60 percent) and mining (up 59 percent) also were strong.
 
 
Sales in the Components segment, propelled by recovery in Europe, growth in China and India, and higher content of emission controls products on engines in North America, were up 47 percent to a record $924 million. Segment EBIT of $105 million, or 11.4 percent, also was a quarterly record for the Components group.
 
Power Generation sales increased 54 percent to $795 million on the strength of improved sales in its commercial products. Total segment sales in Western Europe increased 88 percent; 81 percent in the Middle East and 47 percent in India. Segment EBIT was $89 million, or 11.2 percent of sales.
 
The Distribution segment saw a sales increase of 35 percent to $642 million due to growth in most major markets, especially Europe, North and Central America and Asia Pacific. Segment EBIT of $89 million, or 13.9 percent of sales, was a quarterly record.
 
The Company's non- U.S. markets continued showing strong growth as sales were up in every major international region compared to the same period last year. Consolidated sales in China were up 66 percent; India 31 percent; Brazil 39 percent; Africa and Middle East 40 percent. Sales outside the United States accounted for 61 percent of the Company's revenue in the quarter.
 
"Our first quarter results reflect strong growth in demand for our products across most of our markets," said Cummins President and Chief Operating Officer Tom Linebarger. "We expect the growth to continue and are investing significantly in the additional capacity needed to serve our customers around the world."
 
The Company's guidance for 2011excludes any gains from the previously announced sale of two businesses, which are expected to close later in the year.
 
The Company continued to return value to shareholders by repurchasing $190 million worth of Company shares in the first quarter. Cummins also announced a new share repurchase program in February that authorizes the acquisition of up to $1 billion in stock.
 
First quarter details (all comparisons to the same period in 2010)
 
Engine Segment
Sales - $2.4 billion, up 68 percent
Segment EBIT - $290 million or 12.1 percent of sales, compared to $133 million or 9.3 percent
Strong demand in Brazil contributed to the growth in the medium-duty engine market
Demand in emerging economies drove a 68 percent growth in heavy and light duty construction
Industrial sales are up by $278 million primarily due to strong demand in international markets
Joint venture income was up by $7 million, led by a significant increase in volume from Dongfong Cummins Engine Company
 
 
Power Generation
Sales - $795 million, up 54 percent from what was the lowest quarter during the economic downturn
Segment EBIT - $89 million or 11.2 percent of sales, compared to $34 million or 6.6 percent
Commercial product sales were up 64 percent
Strongest sales growth was in the Middle East, Latin America, India, the United Kingdom and North America
Generator Technologies had sales growth of 43 percent
 
Components
Sales - $924 million, up 47 percent
EBIT - $105 million, or 11.4 percent of sales, compared to $57 million or 9.0 percent of sales
Higher volumes and increased content on aftertreatment products contributed to the improved results
 
Distribution
Sales - $642 million, up 35 percent
EBIT - $89 million or 13.9 percent of sales, compared to $72 million or 15.1 percent of sales
Increased sales in engines, generators and parts drove strong performance
 
Click  here  to read the financial statements from the first quarter. www.cummins.com  
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP measure used in this release, and is defined and
reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
Webcast information
Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results today at 10 a.m. EST. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at 
. Participants wishing to view the visuals available with the audio are encouraged to sign-in a few minutes prior to the start of the teleconference.
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins employs approximately 40,000 people worldwide and serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 6,000 dealer locations. Cummins earned $1.0 billion on sales of $13.2 billion in 2010. Press releases can be found on the Web at
www.cummins.com
.
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
(a)     Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
 
A reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in the is shown in the table below:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
Engine segment net sales by market
 
 
 
 
Unit shipments by engine classification (including unit shipments to Power Generation)
 
 
 
 
Power generation segment sales by business
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
Component segment sales by business
 
 
 
 
Distribution segment sales by product
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
 
Earnings before interest, taxes and noncontrolling interests
 
We define EBIT as earnings or loss before interest expense, income tax expense and noncontrolling interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries (EBIT).  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to "Net income attributable to Cummins Inc.," for each of the applicable periods:
 
 
We believe this is a useful measure of our operating performance for the periods presented as it illustrates our operating performance without regard to financial methods, capital structure or income taxes.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data. 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SELECTED FOOTNOTE DATA
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 1.  EQUITY, ROYALTY AND INTEREST INCOME FROM INVESTEES
 
Equity, royalty and interest income from investees included in our for the interim reporting periods was as follows:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
NOTE 2.  INCOME TAXES
 
Our effective tax rate for the year is expected to approximate 30 percent, absent any discrete period activity.  Our tax rate is generally less than the 35 percent U.S. statutory income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates on foreign income and research credits.  The tax rate for the three month period ended March 27, 2011, was 30 percent.
 
Our effective tax rate for the comparable prior year period was 34 percent and included a discrete tax charge of $7 million (three percent) related to the enactment of the "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act".  This rate was less than the 35 percent U.S. statutory income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates on foreign income.
 
 
 


