FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20110201134653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC  20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report: 
February 1, 2011
 
  
CUMMINS INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
500 Jackson Street P. O. Box 3005
Columbus
, IN  47202-3005
(Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 1, 2011, Cummins Inc. issued a press release regarding its release of fourth quarter results.   
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On February 1, 2011, Cummins Inc. ("Cummins," "the Company," "the registrant," "we," "our," or, "us") issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2010.  A copy of Cummins' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.  
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99-Press Release dated February 1, 2011
SIGNATURE  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: 
February 1, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Contact:
 
Mark Land
Executive Director - Corporate Communications
(317) 610-2456
mark.d.land@cummins.com
 
February 1, 2011
 
Cummins reports best year in Company history in 2010; expects to earn 13.5 percent EBIT on $16 billion in sales in 2011
 
COLUMBUS, IND  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported record profits for all of 2010, as well as record quarterly sales and profits for the fourth quarter, on the strength of significant growth in key international markets and improved productivity in its global manufacturing operations.
 
Fourth quarter sales were $4.14 billion, up 22 percent from $3.40 billion during the same period in 2009. Earnings Before Interest and taxes (EBIT) were $541 million, or 13.1 percent of sales, a 41 percent increase from $383 million, or 11.3 percent of sales. The fourth quarter 2009 results include a pre-tax charge of $4 million to cover the costs associated with restructuring.
 
Net income attributable to Cummins Inc. was $362 million ($1.84 per share) compared to $270 million ($1.36 per share) in the fourth quarter 2009.
For the fourth quarter, the Engine, Components and Distribution segments all reported record sales and segment EBIT. The Power Generation segment, which was affected by the recession later than the Company's other business segments, continued to rebound and reported strongly higher sales and segment EBIT than during the same period in 2009.
 
For the full year, sales were $13.23 billion, up 22 percent from $10.80 billion in 2009. EBIT of $1.66 billion, or 12.5 percent of sales, increased 114 percent from $774 million, or 7.2 percent of sales excluding restructuring and other charges, in 2009.
 
Net income attributable to Cummins Inc. was $1.04 billion ($5.28 per share) from $428 million ($2.16 per share) in 2009. Results for 2009 included restructuring and other charges of $0.33 per share.
 
 
 
 
Full-year 2010 sales were second only to 2008, while EBIT and net income attributable to Cummins Inc. were Company records. Three of the Company's four business segments  Engine, Components and Distribution  reported full-year record earnings, while Power Generation also posted strong sales and profit gains from the previous year.
The Company's strong performance in 2010 came despite a significant decline in its important North American truck engine markets, which were affected by the continued weakness in the U.S. economy and a change in emissions standards. Engine shipments to the North American heavy-duty truck market fell 61 percent and 44 percent to the North American medium-duty truck and bus markets.
Those decreases were more than offset by growth in international markets, particularly China, India and Brazil, and the Company continues to benefit from actions taken over the past two years to improve the productivity of its manufacturing operations around the world.
Sales in China and Brazil increased by more than 70 percent, while sales in India rose 37 percent for the year. Cummins' total international sales increased by 48 percent from 2009 and accounted for 64 percent of the Company's total sales in 2010.
 "2010 was the best year in the Company's history," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso. "The fact that we were able to achieve record profitability in the face of a sharp decline in large North American on-highway markets speaks to the global strength of our business and the work we did to keep the Company strong during the recession.
"Given our strong balance sheet, the expected recovery of our North American markets and the global growth opportunities in front of us, we are forecasting further significant growth in 2011 and beyond."
Based on its current forecasts, Cummins expects sales to grow to $16 billion in 2011 and EBIT to be 13.5 percent of sales.
The Company is forecasting sales to grow by 25 percent in its Engine and Components segments in 2011, led by recovery in the North American truck markets. The Company expects sales to increase by 15 percent in both its Power Generation and Distribution segments, driven by improving markets in North America and continued strength in key international markets.
In addition to the expected economic recovery in North America, the Company also is forecasting further strong growth in China, India and Brazil as well as in other parts of the world, including Mexico, the Middle East and Europe.
The Company expects to invest $600-$650 million in capital expenditures in its consolidated operations. In addition, the Company expects its joint ventures to make $300 million worth of capital investments in their operations to expand their businesses.
"We have significant growth opportunities in markets around the world, and we are well positioned to take advantage of those opportunities," said President and Chief Operating Officer Tom Linebarger. "In particular, we expect a significant recovery in the North American truck markets this year, where our new engines are performing very well.
"We shipped 62,000 engines to the North American truck markets in 2010 equipped with Selective Catalytic Reduction systems, which have allowed us to meet the stringent EPA emission standards and provide improved fuel economy to our customers."
 
 
 
 
 
 
In other recent highlights:
In mid-January, Cummins dedicated its new "megasite" facility in Phaltan, India. The site will allow Cummins to significantly expand production capacity for engines, components and generators, and eventually use India as a base for exports to Asia, the Middle East and Africa.  The Company plans to invest $300 million in the 300-acre campus over the next several years.
Cummins finished 2010 as one of the top performing stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 index. Cummins' stock price appreciated by nearly 140 percent in 2010 and the Company further returned value to shareholders by increasing its dividend by 50 percent in the third quarter of 2010.
Fourth quarter details (all comparisons to same period in 2009)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP measure used in this release, and is defined and reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units.
 
Webcast information
Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results today at 10 a.m. EST. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at www.cummins.com. Participants wishing to view the visuals available with the audio are encouraged to sign-in a few minutes prior to the start of the teleconference.
 
 
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins employs approximately 40,000 people worldwide and serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 6,000 dealer locations. Cummins earned $1.0 billion on sales of $13.2 billion in 2010. Press releases can be found on the Web at . 
www.cummins.com
 
 
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the company's expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. It is important to note that the company's actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, governmental action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility and other risks detailed from time to time in Cummins Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
(a)      Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)      Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)      Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)      Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
                                                                                                            
A reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in the is shown in the table below:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
 
Earnings before interest, taxes, noncontrolling interests and restructuring and other charges
 
We define EBIT as earnings or loss before interest expense, income tax expense, noncontrolling interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries and restructuring and other charges (EBIT).  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to "Net income attributable to Cummins Inc.," for each of the applicable periods:
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
Net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding restructuring and other charges
We believe this is a useful measure of our operating performance for the period presented as it illustrates our operating performance without regard to restructuring.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data.  The following table reconciles net income attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding restructuring and other charges to net income attributable to Cummins Inc. for the three months and the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SELECTED FOOTNOTE DATA
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 1.  EQUITY, ROYALTY AND INTEREST INCOME FROM INVESTEES
 
Equity, royalty and interest income from investees included in our for the interim reporting periods was as follows:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
NOTE 2.  OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
 
Other income (expense) included the following:
 
 
NOTE 3.  INCOME TAXES
 
Our income tax rates are generally less than the 35 percent U.S. income tax rate primarily because of lower taxes on foreign earnings and research tax credits. Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year of 2010 was 26.2 percent and 29.5 percent, respectively.  Our income tax provision for the fourth quarter includes benefits totaling $17 million related to the legislative reinstatement of the U.S. research tax credit.  Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year of 2009 was 22.5 percent and 24.4 percent, respectively.  In 2009, we released $19 million of deferred tax liabilities on foreign earnings now considered to be permanently reinvested outside of the United States and recorded a deferred tax asset of $10 million related to prior period matters. 
 
We expect our 2011 effective tax rate to be 30 percent excluding any discrete items that may arise. 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
NOTE 4.  DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Depreciation and amortization expense included in operating activities of the for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, was $320 million and $326 million, respectively.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 


