FILE:CMI/CMI-8K-20120501100807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC  20549
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report: 
May 1, 2012
 
  
CUMMINS INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
500 Jackson Street P. O. Box 3005
Columbus, IN  47202-3005
(Principal Executive Office)  (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (
812) 377-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 1, 2012, Cummins Inc. ("Cummins," "the Company," "the registrant," "we," "our," or, "us") issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of 2012.  A copy of Cummins' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.  
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99-Press Release dated May 1, 2012
SIGNATURE  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 1, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)    Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
 
(a)    Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
 
(a)    Prepared on an unaudited basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
 
A reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in the is shown in the table below:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SELECTED FOOTNOTE DATA
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 1.  EQUITY, ROYALTY AND INTEREST INCOME FROM INVESTEES
 
Equity, royalty and interest income from investees included in our for the interim reporting periods was as follows:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
NOTE 2.  INCOME TAXES
 
Our effective tax rate for the year is expected to approximate 27 percent, absent any discrete period activity.  Our tax rate is generally less than the 35 percent U.S. statutory income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates on foreign income.  The tax rate for the three month period ended April 1, 2012, was 27 percent.
 
Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 27, 2011, was 30 percent.  The decrease in the 2012 effective tax rate compared to 2011 is due primarily to our assertion that income earned after 2011 by our China operations is permanently reinvested, as well as certain tax planning strategies implemented in our U.K. subsidiaries.
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
 
Net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding special items
 
We believe this is a useful measure of our operating performance for the period presented as it illustrates our operating performance without regard to special items including the gains related to the sale of certain assets and liabilities and flood insurance recovery.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.  It should be considered supplemental data.  The following table reconciles net income attributable to Cummins Inc. to net income attributable to Cummins Inc. excluding special items for the quarters ended April 1, 2012, December 31, 2011 and March 27, 2011.
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
FINANCIAL MEASURES THAT SUPPLEMENT GAAP
(Unaudited)
 
Earnings before interest expense, taxes and noncontrolling interests
 
We define EBIT as earnings or loss before interest expense, income tax expense and noncontrolling interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries (EBIT).  We use EBIT to assess and measure the performance of our operating segments and also as a component in measuring our variable compensation programs.  Below is a reconciliation of EBIT, a non-GAAP financial measure, to "Net income attributable to Cummins Inc.," for each of the applicable periods:
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
Engine segment net sales by market
 
 
Unit shipments by engine classification (including unit shipments to Power Generation)
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
Component segment sales by business
 
 
In the first quarter of 2012, our Power Generation segment reorganized its reporting structure to include the following businesses:  power products, power systems, generator technologies and power solutions.  Sales for our Power Generation segment by business (including 2011 and 2010 reorganized balances) were as follows:
 
 
CUMMINS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
Distribution segment sales by product
 
 

 
 
 
Contact:
 
Carole Casto
Executive Director - Corporate Communications
(317) 610-2480
carole.casto@cummins.com
 
Cummins announces strong first quarter results with revenue growth of 16 percent and EBIT increasing 24 percent
 
Company on track for record full-year revenues and EBIT
 
COLUMBUS, IND.  Cummins Inc. (NYSE: CMI) today reported strong sales and profits for the first quarter of 2012.
 
First quarter revenue of $4.5 billion increased 16 percent from the same quarter in 2011.  The increase year-over-year was driven by higher demand in truck, power generation and construction markets in North America and strong growth in global mining markets.  Growth in these markets offset weaker demand in the truck market in Brazil, the construction market in China and construction and power generation markets in Europe.
 
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) was $658 million or 14.7 percent of sales compared to $532 million or 13.8 percent of sales in the first quarter of 2011.  EBIT increased by 24 percent, continuing the company's trend of growing earnings faster than sales.
 
Net income attributable to Cummins in the first quarter of 2012 was $455 million ($2.38 per diluted share) compared to $343 million in the same period a year ago ($1.75 per diluted share).
 
"Cummins continues to benefit from its geographic diversification and its leadership position in a number of end markets as evidenced by our very strong first quarter results", said Tom Linebarger, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  "Revenues in North America grew 40 percent in the first quarter, offsetting near-term softness in some emerging markets.  I am delighted that through close coordination with our key OEM partners and strong execution from our manufacturing and supply chain teams, we have been able to quickly increase our production in North America to meet strong demand for our products."
 
Based on the current forecast, Cummins reaffirms that total Company revenues are expected to increase 10 percent in 2012, with EBIT in the range of 14.5 to 15 percent of sales. 
 
Other recent highlights:
 
Cummins announced at the Mid-America Truck Show in March that it has commenced development of a new 15-liter spark-ignited natural gas engine for the U.S. heavy-duty truck market.
Also at the Mid-America Truck Show, Cummins unveiled its product solutions that will allow the Company's engines for U.S. truck customers to meet 2014 fuel efficiency and green house gas standards in 2013.
Cummins announced plans to develop a new master site for its operations in Brazil.
For the fifth consecutive year, Cummins has been named one of the world's most ethical companies by The Ethisphere Institute.
 
First quarter detail (all comparisons to same period in 2011)
 
Engine Segment
 
Sales  $2.9 billion, up 20 percent
Segment EBIT  $381 million, or 13.3 percent of sales, compared to $290 million or 12.1 percent of sales
Improved demand in  North American heavy duty truck, medium duty truck and light duty truck and construction markets offsetting lower sales to the China construction and Brazilian truck markets
Strong demand for mining engines globally
 
Components
 
Sales - $1.1 billion, an increase of 19 percent
Segment EBIT - $143 million, or 13.0 percent of sales, compared to $105 million or 11.4 percent of sales
Record quarter driven by increased demand in North America and Brazil more than offsetting lower demand in Europe and China
 
Power Generation
 
Sales  $780 million, down 2 percent
Segment EBIT  $76 million, or 9.7 percent of sales, compared to $89 million or 11.2 percent of sales
Improved demand in North America and Brazil offsetting lower revenues in the Middle East and Europe
 
Distribution
 
Sales  $775 million, up 21 percent
Segment EBIT  $94 million, or 12.1 percent of sales, compared to $89 million or 13.9 percent of sales
Revenue increase driven by strong growth in Asia Pacific region, North and Central America, Europe and Africa
 
About Cummins
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service diesel and natural gas engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins employs approximately 44,000 people worldwide and serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 6,500 dealer locations. Cummins earned $1.85 billion on sales of $18.0 billion in 2011. Press releases can be found on the Web at .
www.cummins.com
 
Forward-looking disclosure statement
Information provided in this release that is not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our forecasts, expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future.  Our actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the adoption and implementation of global emission standards; the price and availability of energy; the pace of infrastructure development; increasing global competition among our customers; general economic, business and financing conditions; governmental action; changes in our customers' business strategies; competitor pricing activity; expense volatility; labor relations; and other risks detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including particularly in the Risk Factors section of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.  The forward-looking statements made herein are made only as of the date of this press release and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  More detailed information about factors that may affect our performance may be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at http://www.sec.gov or at http://www.cummins.com in the Investor Relations section of our website.
 
.
Presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Information
EBIT is a non-GAAP measure used in this release, and is defined and reconciled to what management believes to be the most comparable GAAP measure in a schedule attached to this release. Cummins presents this information as it believes it is useful to understanding the Company's operating performance, and because EBIT is a measure used internally to assess the performance of the operating units. Cummins management will host a teleconference to discuss these results today at 10 a.m. EST. This teleconference will be webcast and available on the Investor Relations section of the Cummins website at www.cummins.com
Webcast information
Participants wishing to view the visuals available with the audio are encouraged to sign-in a few minutes prior to the start of the teleconference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


