FILE:STI/STI-8K-20031112170349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 12, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith.
Exhibit No. 99.1 Press release.
 
 
SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Company") will issue the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto announcing that (i) J.Hicks Lanier has joined the Company's Board of Directors, (ii) certain functions of the Company's Compensation and Corporate Governance Committee have been designated to a newly established Governance and Nominating Committee, and (iii) the existing Compensation and Corporate Governance Committee has been renamed the Compensation Committee.
 
The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.1 referenced therein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News
 
 
ST
UN
RUST
 
 
For Immediate Release
November 12, 2003
 
 
ATLANTASunTrust Banks, Inc., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer L. Phillip Humann announced today that J. Hicks Lanier has joined SunTrust's Board of Directors.
 
Mr. Lanier, 63, has been president of Oxford Industries, Inc. since 1977. In 1981, he was elected the company's chairman of the board. Atlanta-based Oxford Industries, Inc. is a diversified international manufacturer and wholesale marketer of branded and private label apparel for men, women, and children.
 
Mr. Lanier has served as a member of the advisory board of SunTrust Bank, Atlanta for more than 20 years. He also serves on the boards of directors of Crawford & Company, West Point Stevens, Inc. and Genuine Parts Company.
 
SunTrust also announced that, in line with industry practice, certain functions of the Company's existing Compensation and Corporate Governance Committee have been designated to a newly established Governance and Nominating Committee, and that the existing committee has been renamed the Compensation Committee.
 
SunTrust Banks, Inc., headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, is one of the nation's largest commercial banking organizations. As of September 30, 2003, SunTrust had total assets of $126.7 billion and total deposits of $80.5 billion. The company operates through an extensive distribution network primarily in Florida, Georgia, Maryland, Tennessee, Virginia and the District of Columbia and also serves customers in selected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit, trust and investment services. Through various subsidiaries the company provides credit cards, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and capital markets services. SunTrust's Internet address is .
www.suntrust.com
 


