FILE:STI/STI-8K-20041112070439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust" or the "Registrant") hereby amends this Current Report on Form 8-K, which was initially filed on October 7, 2004, to include the financial statements required by Item 9.01 hereof. These financial statements are filed as Exhibits 99.2, 99.3 and 99.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Except for the filing of the financial statements required by Item 9.01 hereof, this Current Report on Form 8-K is not being amended or updated in any manner.
 
 
As previously announced, effective October 1, 2004, National Commerce Financial Corporation, a Tennessee corporation ("NCF"), merged with and into SunTrust, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 7, 2004 (the "Merger Agreement"), between NCF and SunTrust (the "Merger"). NCF is a registered bank holding company headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee, which provides banking and other financial services through its banking and non-banking subsidiaries. As of June 30, 2004, NCF had total assets of $24.0 billion, total liabilities of $21.3 billion and total equity of $2.8 billion. As a result of the Merger, SunTrust issued approximately 76.4 million shares of common stock and paid an aggregate of $1.8 billion to the former shareholders of NCF. A copy of the Merger Agreement, which has been filed as Appendix A to Amendment No. 3 to SunTrust's Registration Statement on Form S-4, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on August 3, 2004, is incorporated into this Item 2.01 by reference. A copy of the press release announcing the closing of the Merger, which has been filed as Exhibit 99.1 to SunTrust's Current Report on Form 8-K, which was filed with the Commission on October 1, 2004, is incorporated into this Item 2.01 by reference.
 
 
Newly-Appointed Officers and Directors
 
Concurrently with the closing of the Merger, the following individuals were appointed as officers and/or elected to serve as directors of SunTrust.
 
 
Certain Related-Party Transactions
 
At the effective time of the Merger, the employment of Mr. Reed, who was a party to an employment agreement and change of control employment agreement with NCF dated as of July 5, 2000, was deemed to have been terminated without cause. Accordingly, pursuant to the existing contract, Mr. Reed became entitled to the payments, benefits and rights pursuant to his employment agreement, without regard to whether Mr. Reed's
 
employment actually terminated as of the closing. At the closing of the Merger, SunTrust paid to Mr. Reed an aggregate lump sum cash payment of $4,002,759 in satisfaction of certain obligations under such agreement. In addition, the Merger constituted a change in control under the NCF supplemental retirement plan (the "NCF SERP"). At the time of completion of the Merger, accrued benefits under the NCF SERP, amounting to an aggregate of $289,605 for Mr. Reed, became fully vested. While these accrued benefits were not payable to Mr. Reed in a lump sum at the time of completion of the Merger (since Mr. Reed remains employed by SunTrust), such benefits will be payable in a lump sum in the event Mr. Reed's employment is terminated after the Merger.
 
SunTrust has not entered into any formal agreement with Mr. Reed outlining the terms of his service to SunTrust as Vice Chairman, or the compensation therefor. In accordance with the Commission's rules and regulations, SunTrust will file an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K within four business days after such information becomes available.
 
In connection with the Merger and effective as of the effective time of the Merger, SunTrust granted an aggregate of 100,000 options to purchase SunTrust common stock in accordance with SunTrust's 2004 executive compensation stock option grant guidelines to Mr. Reed. Using the Black-Scholes valuation methodology used by SunTrust in its current stock options reporting and based on $71.24, the closing price of SunTrust common stock on October 1, 2004, it is estimated that such options have an intrinsic value of $812,848.
 
At the effective time of the Merger, 8,100 restricted shares of NCF common stock held by Mr. Reed were converted into 4,012 shares of SunTrust common stock. These shares have an aggregate fair market value of approximately $285,815, based on the closing price of SunTrust common stock on October 1, 2004. All such shares of SunTrust common stock became fully vested and free of restrictions and risk of forfeiture.
 
At the effective time of the Merger, SunTrust assumed a pre-existing employment agreement between Thomas M. Garrott, formerly Chairman of the executive committee of the NCF board of directors, and NCF that provides for annual salary payments of approximately $477,000, adjusted for inflation, annual grants of stock options and other benefits through July 5, 2006. Pursuant to this agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, Mr. Garrott received grants of stock options to acquire at then-market prices 122,488 shares of SunTrust common stock in each of January 2005 and January 2006. Using the Black-Scholes valuation methodology used by SunTrust in its current stock options reporting, it is estimated that such options have an intrinsic value of $1,991,284.
 
Membership on Committees of the Board of Directors
 
SunTrust currently expects that, as soon as practicable following the closing of the Merger, it will appoint Mr. Farnsworth and Mr. Garrett to serve on SunTrust's Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, Mr. Garrott to serve on SunTrust's Executive Committee of the Board of Directors, and Mr. Wynn to serve on SunTrust's Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
 
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired
 
The required financial statements of NCF as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference. The required financial statements of NCF as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2004 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
 
The required pro forma financial information as of June 30, 2004 and for the twelve and six months ended December 31, 2003 and June 30, 2004, respectively, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this amendment to Current Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 23.1
 
 
The Board of Directors National Commerce Financial Corporation:
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 23, 2004, into the previously filed Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-118382, 333-73368 and 333-46123) and on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-118963, 333-114625, 333-106638, 333-86306, 333-86330, 333-69331, 333-43348, 333-91521, 333-50719 and 033-58723) of SunTrust Banks, Inc., with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of National Commerce Financial Corporation (the "Company") and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows, for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003, which report appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of SunTrust Banks, Inc. to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 12, 2004. Our report refers to the fact that the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, effective January 1, 2002.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
KPMG LLP
 
Memphis, Tennessee
November 9, 2004

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Commitments and contingencies (note 17)
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts and results of operations of National Commerce Financial Corporation ("NCF") and its subsidiaries. NCF is a bank holding company that provides diverse financial services through a regional network of banking affiliates and a national network of nonbanking affiliates.
Consolidation
 
NCF has two wholly owned banking subsidiaries (collectively, the "Subsidiary Banks"). National Bank of Commerce ("NBC") is NCF's principal subsidiary. The Subsidiary Banks provide a full range of banking services to individual and corporate customers through their branch networks based in Tennessee, Mississippi, Arkansas, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. Neither NCF nor its Subsidiary Banks have active foreign operations. NCF believes that there is no concentration of risk with any single customer or supplier, or small group of customers or suppliers, whose failure or nonperformance would materially affect NCF's results. Products and services offered to customers include traditional banking services such as accepting deposits; making secured and unsecured loans; renting safety deposit boxes; performing trust functions for corporations, employee benefit plans and individuals; and providing certain insurance and brokerage services. The Subsidiary Banks are subject to competition from other financial entities and are subject to the regulations of certain Federal agencies and undergo periodic examinations by those regulatory agencies.
 
NCF has two business segments: traditional banking and financial enterprises. The financial enterprises segment is comprised of trust services and investment management, transaction processing, retail banking consulting/in-store licensing and broker/dealer activities. Many of these services are offered nationally.
 
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 ("ARB 51"), , requires a company's consolidated financial statements to include subsidiaries in which the company has a controlling financial interest. This requirement usually has been applied to subsidiaries in which a company has a majority voting interest. Investments in companies in which a company controls operating and financing decisions (principally defined as owning a voting or economic interest greater than 50 percent) are consolidated. Investments in companies in which the company has significant influence over operating and financing decisions (principally defined as owning a voting or economic interest of 20 percent to 50 percent) and limited partnership investments are generally accounted for by the equity method of accounting. These investments are normally included in other assets and the company's proportionate share of income or loss is included in other noninterest income.
Consolidated Financial Statements
 
The voting interest approach defined in ARB 51 is not applicable in identifying controlling financial interests in entities that are not controllable through voting interests or in which the equity investors do not bear the residual economic risks. In such instances, FASB Interpretation No. 46 ("FIN 46"), , indicates when a company should include in its financial statements the assets, liabilities and activities of another entity. In general, a variable interest entity ("VIE") is a corporation, partnership, trust, or any other legal structure used for business purposes that either does not have equity investors with voting rights or has equity investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities. FIN 46 requires a VIE to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the VIE's activities or entitles it to receive a majority of the entity's residual returns or both. A company that consolidates a VIE is called the primary beneficiary of that entity.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
NCF uses special-purpose entities (SPEs), primarily statutory business trusts, to diversify its funding sources. SPEs are not operating entities, generally have no employees, and usually have a limited life. The basic SPE structure involves NCF transferring assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing asset-backed securities to investors. The legal documents governing the SPE describe how the cash received on the assets held in the SPE must be allocated to the investors and other parties that have rights to these cash flows. NCF structures these SPEs to be bankruptcy remote, thereby insulating investors from the impact of the creditors of other entities, including the transferor of the assets.
 
Where NCF is a transferor of assets to an SPE, the assets sold to the SPE are no longer recorded on the balance sheet and the SPE is not consolidated when the SPE is a qualifying special-purpose entity ("QSPE"). Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140, , provides specific criteria for determining when an SPE meets the definition of a QSPE. In determining whether to consolidate nonqualifying SPEs where assets are legally isolated from NCF's creditors, NCF considers such factors as the amount of third-party equity, the retention of risks and rewards, and the extent of control available to third parties. NCF created two statutory business trusts which each issued a series of trust preferred securities. Both business trusts meet the applicable QSPE criteria under Statement No. 140, and accordingly, are not consolidated on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2003. Further discussion regarding these business trusts is included in Note 11.
Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities
 
NCF's accounting and reporting polices are in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and they conform to general practices within the applicable industries. All significant intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
Financial Statement Presentation
 
In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, management makes a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reporting of revenues and expenses during the period. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the carrying amount of intangibles and goodwill; allowance for loan losses; deferred income tax assets; valuation of derivative instruments and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Certain amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform to the 2003 presentation.
 
NCF considers time deposits in other banks, federal funds sold and other short-term investments to be cash equivalents.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Securities are classified at their purchase date as trading account securities, securities available for sale or investment securities held to maturity, based on management's intention. Interest and dividends on securities, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, are included in interest income. The amortized cost of the specific securities sold is used to compute gains or losses from the sale of securities.
Securities
 
Trading account securities consist of securities inventories held for the purpose of brokerage activities and are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in earnings. Broker/dealer revenue includes the effects of adjustments to market values of trading account securities. Interest on trading account securities is recorded in interest income.
 
Securities available for sale are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses are excluded from earnings and reported in other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders' equity.
 
Investment securities that NCF has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity and reported at amortized cost.
 
The loan portfolio is comprised of: commercial, financial and agricultural; real estate-construction; real estate-mortgage; consumer, revolving credit accounts and leases. The lease portfolio includes rolling stock such as automobiles, trucks and trailers as well as a broadly diversified base of equipment.
Loan Portfolio
 
A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current information, it is probable that NCF will not receive all amounts due in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan agreement.
 
Interest income on loans is recorded on the accrual basis. Loan origination fees and direct origination costs are amortized as an adjustment to the yield over the term of the loan.
 
Accrual of interest on loans (including impaired loans) is discontinued at the time the loan is 90 days delinquent unless the credit is well secured and in the process of collection. Consumer and other retail loans are typically charged-off no later than 120 days past due. In all cases, loans are placed on nonaccrual status or charged-off at an earlier date if collection of principal or interest is considered doubtful. Interest accrued but not collected on loans that are placed on nonaccrual or are charged-off is reversed against interest income. Subsequent interest collected is accounted for on the cash-basis or cost-recovery method, until qualifying for return to accrual status. Loans are returned to accrual status when all principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured.
 
The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered appropriate by management to provide for probable loan losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. The evaluation of the allowance is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. Additions to the allowance for loan losses are made by charges to the provision for loan losses. Loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance. Recoveries of previously charged-off amounts are credited to the allowance.
Allowance for Loan Losses
 
The allowance is comprised of specific loan loss allocations, nonaccrual and classified loan allocations, and general allocations by loan type for all other loans. Specific loan loss allocations are determined for significant credits where management believes that a risk of loss exists. The unallocated component of the allowance represents the estimated probable losses inherent in the portfolio that are not fully captured in either the specific loan loss allocation or nonaccrual and classified loan allocations. The amount of unallocated allowance was based on the results of analyses including industry, borrower or collateral concentrations, the risk inherent in the loss estimation process for pools of loans and the estimated effect of general economic conditions. Due to the subjectivity involved in the determination of the unassigned portion of the allowance for loan losses, the relationship of the unallocated component to the total allowance for loan losses may fluctuate from period to period. Management evaluates the balance of the allowance for loan losses based on the combined total of the allocated and unallocated components.
 
NCF believes it has developed appropriate policies and processes for the determination of an allowance for loan losses that reflects its assessment of credit risk after consideration of known relevant facts. Depending on changes in circumstances, future adjustments to the allowance may be necessary if economic conditions, particularly in the Subsidiary Banks' markets, differ substantially from the assumptions used by management. Additionally, bank regulatory agency examiners periodically review the loan portfolio and may require the Subsidiary Banks to charge-off loans and/or increase the allowance for loan losses to reflect their assessment of the collectibility of loans based on available information at the time of their examination. Such adjustments to original estimates, as necessary, are made in the period in which these factors and other relevant considerations indicate that loss levels may vary from previous estimates.
 
NCF originates and purchases mortgage loans with the intent to sell the loans to investors. Loans held for sale are recorded at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value, except if the loans are designated as a hedge under Statement No. 133, , in which case the loans are recorded at fair value. The lower of cost or fair value is determined on an aggregate loan basis. Mortgage servicing rights are amortized over the estimated life of the asset using a method that approximates the interest method.
Mortgage Banking
Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities
 
NCF sells and has securitized residential mortgage loans. When NCF sells receivables in securitizations of loans, it retains interest-only strips, one or more subordinated tranches, servicing rights, and in some cases a cash reserve account, all of which are retained interests in the securitized receivables. Retained interests are initially recorded at their allocated carrying amounts based on the relative fair value of assets sold and retained. Retained interests in debt securities are subsequently carried at fair value based on quoted market prices. Servicing fees are recorded in noninterest income.
 
Mortgage banking income includes servicing fees, gains from selling originated mortgages, ancillary servicing income and gains and losses on sales to the secondary market.
 
NCF utilizes a variety of financial instruments to manage various financial risks. The instruments, commonly referred to as derivatives, primarily consist of interest rate swaps, caps, floors, collars, financial forwards and futures contracts and options written and purchased. A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. NCF uses derivatives primarily to hedge loans, forecasted sales of mortgage loans, long-term debt and to facilitate transactions on behalf of its customers.
Derivatives and Hedging Activities
 
Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts. Notional amounts only provide the basis for calculating payments between counterparties and do not represent amounts to be exchanged between parties or are a measure of financial risk. NCF classifies its derivative financial instruments as either (1) a hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of a recorded asset or liability ("fair value hedge"), (2) a hedge of an exposure to changes in the cash flows of a recognized asset, liability or forecasted transaction ("cash flow hedge"), or (3) derivatives not designated as hedges. If the derivative is a qualified fair value hedge, changes in fair value of the derivatives that have been highly effective as hedges are recognized in current period earnings along with the corresponding changes in the value of the designated hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. If the derivative is a qualified cash flow hedge, the effective portion of changes in the value of the derivatives that have been highly effective are recognized in other comprehensive income until the related cash flows from the hedged item are recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings.
 
NCF records derivatives at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Derivatives that are not hedges are adjusted to fair value through earnings. Derivative contracts are accounted for on the accrual basis and the net interest differential, including premiums paid, if any, are recognized as an adjustment to the item specifically designated as being hedged at the start of the agreement. NCF formally documents its risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking various hedge transactions at the inception of the transaction. NCF uses discounted cash flow analysis at the hedge's inception and quarterly thereafter to assess whether the derivative used in its hedging transaction is expected to be or has been highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair
value or cash flows of the hedged items. NCF discontinues hedge accounting when it is determined that a derivative is not expected to be or has ceased to be highly effective as a hedge, and then reflects changes in fair value in earnings. A highly effective hedging relationship is one in which NCF achieves offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows between 80 percent and 120 percent for the risk being hedged. The related amount payable or receivable from counterparties is included in "other assets" or "other liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
If a derivative instrument in a fair value hedge is terminated or the hedge designation removed, the difference between a hedged item's then carrying amount and its face amount is recognized into income over the original hedge period. Similarly, if a derivative instrument in a cash flow hedge is terminated or the hedge designation removed, related amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged item affects income.
 
Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Purchased software and costs of computer software developed for internal use are capitalized provided certain criteria are met. Depreciation is computed over the estimated lives of the assets on accelerated and straight-line methods. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the term of the respective leases or the estimated useful lives of the improvements, whichever is shorter.
Premises and Equipment
 
Net assets of companies acquired in purchase transactions are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition. Identified intangibles are recorded at acquisition and the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Identified intangible assets are amortized on an accelerated basis over the period benefited and are evaluated for impairment if events and circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Intangible assets included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet consist primarily of core deposit intangibles that are amortized over their anticipated lives. In accordance with GAAP, goodwill is not amortized. Goodwill and intangible assets not subject to amortization will be reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Unamortized intangible assets associated with disposed assets and businesses are included in the determination of gain or loss on sale of the disposed asset or business.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
Comprehensive income is the change in NCF's equity during the period from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources. Total comprehensive income is divided into net income and other comprehensive income (loss). "Other comprehensive income" and "accumulated other comprehensive income" are comprised of unrealized gains and losses on certain investments in debt and equity securities, unrealized loss on hedging instruments and adjustments to the minimum pension liability.
Comprehensive Income
 
The provision for income taxes is based on income and expense reported for financial statement purposes after adjustment for permanent differences such as tax-exempt interest income. Deferred income taxes are provided when there is a difference between the periods items are reported for financial statement purposes and when they are reported for tax purposes and are recorded at the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Subsequent changes in tax rates will require adjustment to these assets and liabilities with the cumulative effect included in the current year's income tax provision. Each subsidiary provides for federal income taxes based on its contribution to income tax expense (benefit) of the consolidated group.
Income Taxes
 
Recognition of deferred tax assets is based on management's belief that it is more likely than not that the tax benefit associated with certain temporary differences, tax operating loss carryforwards and tax credits will be realized. A valuation allowance would be recorded for the amount of the deferred tax item for which it is more likely than not that realization will not occur.
 
NCF has stock-based incentive compensation plans covering certain officers of NCF and its subsidiaries. The market value of restricted stock issued under such incentive plans is charged to compensation expense over the vesting period, generally up to three years. Vesting is dependent on continued service with NCF.
Stock-based Compensation Plans
 
Generally, NCF grants stock options under the incentive plans for a fixed number of shares to employees with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares on the date of grant. NCF has elected to account for these stock option grants in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, and accordingly, recognizes no compensation expense for these stock option grants. For all variable stock option grants, compensation expense is recognized in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25 over the period the employee performs related service, the vesting period.
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,
 
NCF discloses pro forma net income and earnings per share in the notes to its consolidated financial statements as if compensation was measured under the fair value based method promulgated under Statement No. 123, . Under the fair value based method, compensation cost is measured at the grant date of the option based on the value of the award and is recognized over the service period, which is usually the vesting period. Had compensation expense for the stock option plans been determined consistent with Statement No. 123, NCF's net income and net income per share for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below. These pro forma amounts may not be representative of the effect on reported net income in future years.
Accounting for Stock-based Compensation
 
 
The weighted average fair value of options granted approximated $5.80 in 2003, $6.22 in 2002 and $5.83 in 2001. The fair values of the options granted in 2003, 2002 and 2001 are estimated on the date of the grants using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Option pricing models require the use of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock volatility, which when changed can materially affect fair value estimates. The fair values were estimated using the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
 
Basic earnings per share ("EPS") excludes dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if potentially dilutive shares were issued. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding plus dilutive stock options (as computed under the treasury stock method) assumed to have been exercised during the period.
Earnings Per Share
 
The financial statements include disclosure of fair value information about financial instruments, whether or not recognized on the balance sheet, for which it is practicable to estimate that value. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. In that regard, the derived fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets and, in many cases, could not be realized in immediate settlement of the financial instrument. As the fair value of certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are not presented, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value of NCF.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
(2) R C D B
ESTRICTIONS
ON
ASH
AND
UE
FROM
ANKS
 
The Subsidiary Banks are required to maintain reserve and clearing balances with the Federal Reserve Bank (the "FRB"). These balances are included in "cash and due from banks" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the reserve maintenance periods in effect at both December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Subsidiary Banks were required to maintain average reserve and clearing balances of $39 million and $16 million, respectively.
 
(3) TRADING AND I S
NVESTMENT
ECURITIES
 
Unrealized net gains on trading securities were $224,000, $246,000 and $2 million at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
Investment securities with amortized costs of approximately $4.3 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were pledged to secure public funds on deposit, repurchase agreements and for other purposes required by law. The investment securities portfolio is segregated into securities available for sale and securities held to maturity.
 
Securities available for sale are carried at estimated fair value. The amortized cost and approximate fair values of available for sale and held to maturity securities at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows:
 
 
Gross gains realized on sales of securities available for sale totaled $14 million, $12 million and $7 million, respectively, for 2003, 2002 and 2001, and gross losses totaled $10 million, $60,000 and $110,000, respectively, for 2003, 2002 and 2001.
 
Equity securities include the Subsidiary Banks' required investment in stock of the FRB and the Federal Home Loan Bank (the "FHLB") which totaled $189 million at December 31, 2003 and $195 million at December 31, 2002. No ready market exists for these stocks and they have no quoted market value. However, redemption has historically been at par value. Accordingly, the carrying amounts were deemed to be a reasonable estimate of fair value.
 
Following is a maturity schedule of securities available for sale and held to maturity at December 31, 2003:
 
 
Unrealized gains and losses on certain investments in debt and equity securities included in other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 follows:
 
 
The tables below provide a summary of investment securities, both available for sale and held to maturity, with unrealized losses at December 31, 2003. Less than 2 percent of the unrealized loss was comprised of securities in a loss position for twelve consecutive months or more. All of the securities with losses for twelve months or more are the obligations of regional banks and the majority are floating-rate securities with coupons that reset every three months at a spread above three-month LIBOR. NCF has the ability and intent to hold these securities until such time as the value recovers or the securities mature. NCF believes the unrealized losses of these securities are not permanent. The majority of the deterioration in value is attributable to changes in market interest rates, especially short-term interest rates such as three-month LIBOR.
Securities in an Unrealized Loss Position
 
 
(4) L
OANS
 
The Subsidiary Banks do not engage in highly leveraged transactions or foreign lending activities. The loan portfolios are diversified and there are no significant concentrations of credit risk. Management internally classifies the loan portfolio by the purpose of the borrowing and such classification is presented below as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. This classification basis places the emphasis on the source of repayment rather than the collateral source, which is the basis for the regulatory classification.
 
 
Loans with outstanding balances of $27 million and $9 million were transferred from loans to foreclosed real estate and other repossessed assets, respectively, during 2003. Foreclosed real estate and other repossessed assets are included in "other assets" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Following are nonperforming assets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002.
 
 
The following is an analysis of interest income related to loans on nonaccrual status for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
 
 
Substantially all loans are made on a secured basis. At December 31, 2003, impaired loans totaled $40 million, of which $21 million were on nonaccrual status, and their related allowance for loan losses totaled $13 million. The average carrying value of impaired loans was $45 million during 2003 and gross interest income recognized on impaired loans totaled $3 million. At December 31, 2002, impaired loans totaled $50 million, of which $21 million were on nonaccrual status, and their related allowance for loan losses totaled $20 million. The average carrying value of impaired loans was $46 million during 2002 and gross interest income recognized on impaired loans totaled $2 million.
 
During 2003 and 2002, the Subsidiary Banks had loan and deposit relationships with NCF's executive officers and directors and their associates. In the opinion of management, these loans do not involve more than the normal risk of collectibility and are made on terms comparable to those of other borrowers. Following is an analysis of these borrowings for the year ended December 31, 2003 (in thousands):
 
 
(5) A L L
LLOWANCE
FOR
OAN
OSSES
 
Following is a summary of the allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
 
 
(6) MORTGAGE BANKING
 
Loans held for sale had a carrying value of $215 million and $430 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Loans serviced for the benefit of others totaled $2 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. NCF retains certain servicing rights on loans sold to investors. At December 31, 2003, the book value of the mortgage servicing rights was $19 million, which approximates the fair value. The following is a summary of NCF's mortgage servicing rights, net of accumulated amortization and valuation allowance, included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets:
 
 
During March 2003, NCF consummated a transaction securitizing approximately $646 million of single-family mortgages and retained a majority of the resulting securities which are primarily classified as available for sale. The securitization was a private securitization with NCF retaining subordinated beneficial interests. NCF retained the servicing rights for the securitized single-family mortgages and mortgage servicing rights recorded at the transaction date approximated $5 million. NCF receives annual servicing fees approximating 30 basis points of the outstanding balance and rights to future cash flows arising after the investors in the securitization trust have received the return for which they contracted. The investors and the securitization trust have no recourse to NCF's other assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. Certain of NCF's retained interests are subordinate to the investors' interests. Their value is subject to credit, prepayment and interest rate risks on the transferred mortgage loans. NCF recognized an immaterial loss on the securitization transaction.
 
At the time of the securitization, the retained interests were recorded based on their relative fair values, including a reserve on retained interests subordinate to the investors' interests. The reserve was established based on management's evaluation of the size and risk characteristics of the securitized loan portfolio. The reserve is periodically evaluated by management for appropriateness, with consideration given to the balance of problem loans, prior loan loss experience, current economic conditions, value of collateral and other risk factors. As of December 31, 2003, the net carrying value of the non-rated subordinated retained interests was $1 million.
 
The table below summarizes certain cash flows received from and paid to the securitization trust during 2003 (in thousands):
 
 
Sensitivity analyses were not performed on the retained debt securities or the retained reserve for probable recourse exposure due to their immateriality. The balance remaining at December 31, 2003 of the mortgage servicing rights recorded in connection with the securitization transaction was $3 million and no sensitivity analysis was performed at December 31, 2003 due to its immateriality.
 
As of December 31, 2003, the securitized mortgage loans totaled $389 million of which less than $1 million were greater than 60 days past due. No charge-offs were recorded on the securitized mortgage loans during 2003.
 
NCF's secondary marketing operations enter into transactions involving forward contracts with off-balance sheet risk in order to reduce exposure to fluctuations in the interest rates of mortgage loans held for sale. All such contracts are for forward commitments to sell conventional, fixed-rate mortgage loans. These financial instruments involve varying degrees of credit and market risk that arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from movements in interest rates. Forward contract commitments to sell totaled $264 million at December 31, 2003. These contracts are recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.
 
(7) D H A
ERIVATIVES
AND
EDGING
CTIVITIES
 
NCF utilizes interest rate swap agreements to provide an exchange of interest payments computed on notional amounts that will offset undesirable changes in cash flows or fair value resulting from market rate changes on designated hedged transactions or items thereby helping to manage NCF's interest rate sensitivity and market risk. Because the notional amount of the instruments only serves as a basis for calculating amounts receivable or payable, the risk of loss with any counterparty is limited to a small fraction of the notional amount. NCF limits the credit risks of these instruments by initiating the transactions with counterparties that have significant financial positions. NCF further limits the risk of loss by subjecting counterparties to credit reviews and approvals. Because of these factors, NCF's credit risk exposure related to derivative contracts at December 31, 2003 was not material.
 
The following table sets forth certain information concerning NCF's interest rate swaps at December 31, 2003:
 
 
(8) P E
REMISES
AND
QUIPMENT
 
Following is a summary of premises and equipment at December 31, 2003 and 2002:
 
 
(9) INTANGIBLES
 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 are presented in the following table. The goodwill adjustments recorded in 2003 related to settlement of a contingent purchase price payment related to a 2002 acquisition.
 
 
Core deposit intangibles are amortized over a period of up to 10 years using an accelerated method. During 2003, core deposit intangibles were reduced by $3 million in connection with deposits sold in branch sales. Following is an analysis of core deposit intangibles:
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of the reported net income for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
 
 
(10) T D
IME
EPOSITS
 
Interest on jumbo time deposits totaled $27 million, $34 million and $77 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Maturities of time deposits for each of the years ending December 31 are as follows:
 
 
(11) B
ORROWINGS
 
At December 31, 2003, NCF (Parent Company) had available $50 million in an unsecured line of credit with a commercial bank which would bear interest at a rate tied to LIBOR. No draws were outstanding as of December 31, 2003 or at any time during 2003. The line expires on December 31, 2004.
 
Following is an analysis of short-term borrowed funds at December 31, 2003 and 2002:
Short-term Borrowed Funds
 
 
Interest on federal funds purchased totaled $8 million in 2003 and $7 million in 2002. The treasury tax and loan depository note account is payable on demand and is collateralized by various investment securities with amortized costs and fair values of $29 million at December 31, 2003. Interest on borrowings under this arrangement is payable at .25 percent below the weekly federal funds rate as quoted by the Federal Reserve. Master note borrowings are unsecured obligations of NCF that mature daily. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized by U.S. Treasury and U.S. government agency and corporation securities with carrying values of $639 million and fair values of $654 million at December 31, 2003. Interest expense on securities sold under agreements to repurchase totaled $11 million in 2003 and $10 million in 2002.
 
FHLB advances bear interest at fixed and variable rates. The FHLB advances are collateralized by mortgage-related securities and by liens on first mortgage loans with carrying values totaling $3.8 billion at December 31, 2003. During 2003, the Subsidiary Banks prepaid approximately $658 million of fixed-rate FHLB advances and incurred early debt retirement/termination penalties of $32 million. The terminated advances were replaced with short-term borrowings. The Subsidiary Banks have the capacity to borrow additional advances from the FHLB of up to 50 percent of total assets, subject to available collateral and level of FHLB stock ownership.
FHLB Advances
 
Maturities of FHLB allowances for each of the years ending December 31 are as follows:
 
 
Following is a summary of trust preferred securities and long-term debt at December 31, 2003 and 2002:
Trust Preferred Securities and Long-term Debt
 
 
The Parent Company created two statutory business trusts (the "Trusts") which each issued a series of trust preferred securities ("TRUPS"). Prior to October 1, 2003, the accounts of the Trusts were included in NCF's consolidated financial statements. On October 1, 2003, NCF adopted the provisions of FIN 46 and related revised interpretations and deconsolidated the Trusts from its financial statements. The deconsolidation of the net assets and results of operations of the trusts had virtually no impact on NCF's financial statements or liquidity position since NCF continues to be obligated to repay the debentures held by the Trusts. The principal assets of the Trusts are $240 million of the Parent Company's subordinated debentures with identical rates of interest and maturities as the TRUPS. The subordinated debentures are unsecured and are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of NCF. NCF has the right, at any time, so long as no event of default has occurred, to defer payments of interest on either issue for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters. NCF has fully and unconditionally guaranteed payment of amounts due under the trust preferred securities on a subordinated basis and only to the extent the related Trusts have funds available for payment of those amounts. The TRUPS continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital under the risk-based capital guidelines established by the Federal Reserve Board.
 
In 1997, National Commerce Capital Trust I ("Trust I") sold $50 million of floating rate TRUPS bearing interest at a variable annual rate equal to LIBOR plus .98 percent (2.14 percent and 2.79 percent at December 31, 2003 and 2002) due April 1, 2027 but redeemable in whole or in part any time on or after December 31, 2006. In 2001, National Commerce Capital Trust II ("Trust II") sold $200 million of 7.70 percent TRUPS due December 15, 2031. The Trust II TRUPS may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time on or after December 31, 2006. When the Trust II TRUPS were issued, NCF entered into an interest rate swap that converts the Trust II TRUPS' fixed-rate to a variable-rate tied to three-month LIBOR plus .83 percent (1.99 percent at December 31, 2003).
 
The trust preferred securities issued by the Trusts qualify as Tier 1 capital under Federal Reserve Board guidelines. As a result of the issuance of FIN 46, the Federal Reserve Board is currently evaluating whether deconsolidation of the Trusts will affect the qualification of the trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital.
 
NCF's unsecured 6.75 percent subordinated notes, which matured on December 1, 2003, paid interest semi-annually. Interest on the subordinated notes totaled $2 million in 2003 and 2002.
 
Unsecured term notes totaling $6 million bear interest payable quarterly at a variable rate repriced every three years. The term notes next reprice in 2006. At December 31, 2003, the average rate was 5.15 percent. The notes mature in 2007. Interest on the term notes totaled $328,000 in 2003 and $363,000 in 2002. Other long-term debt includes $30 million of preferred stock issued by a subsidiary with varying dividend rates ranging up to 4.50 percent at December 31, 2003.
 
(12) E B
MPLOYEE
ENEFITS
 
NCF has a defined contribution employee benefit plan (the "401(k) plan") covering substantially all employees with six months' service. Under this plan, employee contributions are partially matched by NCF.
Benefit Plans
 
NCF has a noncontributory, qualified defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all full-time employees. The pension plan makes provisions for early and delayed retirement as well as normal retirement and provides participants with retirement benefits based on credited years of service. Contributions to the pension plan are funded as allowable for federal income tax purposes.
 
NCF sponsors a postretirement benefit plan that provides postretirement healthcare and life insurance benefits. The plan is contributory and contains other cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance. NCF's policy to fund the cost of medical benefits to employees varies by age and service at retirement. Benefits are provided through a self-insured plan administered by an insurance company.
 
In December 2003, President Bush signed into law a bill that expands Medicare benefits, primarily adding a prescription drug benefit for Medicare-eligible retirees beginning in 2006. The law also provides a federal subsidy to companies which sponsor postretirement benefit plans the provide prescription drug coverage. FASB Staff Position 106-1, permits deferring the recognition of the new Medicare provisions' impact due to lack of specific authoritative guidance on accounting for the federal subsidy. NCF has elected to defer accounting for the effects of this new legislation until the specific authoritative guidance is issued. Accordingly, the postretirement obligations and net periodic costs reported in the accompanying financial statements and notes do not reflect the impact of this legislation. The accounting guidance, when issued, could require changes to previously reported financial information. NCF anticipates its benefit costs after 2006 will be somewhat lower as a result of the new Medicare provisions; however, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,
 
NCF also has established a noncontributory, nonqualified defined benefit pension plan (the "SERP") covering highly compensated employees that provide benefits that cannot be paid from a qualified retirement plan due to Internal Revenue Code restrictions. Assets used to fund benefit payments are in a grantor trust included in NCF's other assets; therefore, in general, a participant's or beneficiary's claim to benefits under these plans is a as a general creditor. NCF's funding policy is to contribute, on an ad hoc discretionary basis, an amount sufficient for grantor trust assets to equal the SERP's accumulated benefit obligation.
 
In 2004, NCF expects to contribute an amount equal to the stated NCF match for the 401(k) plan; the minimum required under ERISA to the pension plan; an amount equal to the postretirement benefit payments made in 2004, net of employee contributions, to the postretirement benefit plan; and $685,000 to SERP grantor trust.
 
For disclosure purposes, the postretirement and SERP information have been combined and are presented as "Other Benefits." The table below discloses information relating to the obligations and plan assets of NCF's benefit plans:
 
 
NCF determines the pension plan's return on asset actuarial assumption by reviewing the long-term historical returns of each asset category comprising the plan's target asset allocation. This review produces an annual return assumption ranging from 5 percent to 13.5 percent for each asset category. The product of the annual return assumption and the plan's target asset allocation percentage for each asset category equals the annual return attribution by asset category. The pension plan's equity securities include shares of NCF common stock with fair values of $15 million (9.0 percent of total plan assets) and $13 million (9.5 percent of total plan assets) at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
The investment objective for the NCF pension plan is to maximize total return with exposure to reasonable and prudent risk. Investment managers have flexibility with respect to investment decisions and timing within a range assigned by the plan's investment policy for each asset class under management.
 
 
The following table discloses the components of the net periodic benefit costs and the assumptions used in computing those costs for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
 
 
 
NCF has stock incentive plans under which stock options and restricted stock may be granted periodically to certain employees. The options are granted at an exercise price equal to the fair value of the underlying shares at the date of grant; they generally vest within three years following the date of grant and have a term of ten years. As of December 31, 2003, 9,476,000 shares are authorized and available for grant. NCF continued in effect nonstatutory and incentive stock option plans existing at the date of merger with acquired financial institutions. The stock options under these plans were granted to directors and certain officers of the respective financial institutions and entitled them to purchase shares of common stock at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. The options granted under these plans were exercisable for periods of up to ten years with varying vesting provisions. All options outstanding at the time of the respective mergers were converted into options to acquire NCF common stock. No further awards may be granted under these plans.
Stock Options and Restricted Stock
 
NCF instituted the Share NCF program to encourage stock ownership by its employees. Eligible employees who purchase NCF shares through NCF's discount brokerage subsidiary are awarded for each share purchased two options which have an exercise price equal to the purchase price of the qualifying shares. The options are cancelled if the employee does not remain in NCF's employ over the vesting period. For Share NCF options issued prior to August 1, 2001, the options vest after two years if the employee has held the purchased shares for the two-year period after purchase. For Share NCF options issued after August 1, 2001, the options vest after two years if the employee has held the purchased shares for the two-year period after purchase or vest after six years if the purchased shares were not held for the two-year period after purchase. As of December 31, 2003, approximately 360 employees were participating in the Share NCF program. NCF accounts for Share NCF options issued prior to August 1, 2001 as variable options, and, accordingly, recognizes compensation expense ratably over the vesting period based on differences in the options' exercise price and the market price of NCF stock on the reporting date. Compensation expense recognized in 2003 related to the variable options was immaterial as the variable options were fully vested by June 2003. For the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, NCF recorded compensation expense of $251,000, and $348,000, respectively.
 
During 2000, the terms of approximately 600,000 stock options were modified; as a result, NCF accounts for these option grants as variable grants. During 2003, 2002 and 2001, compensation expense of $185,000, $342,000 and $1 million, respectively, was recorded related to these options.
 
A summary of stock option activity and related information for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 follows:
 
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2003:
 
 
NCF employees were awarded 43,943 shares of restricted stock during 2003, 7,565 shares during 2002 and 26,159 shares during 2001. The grants in 2003, 2002 and 2001 were recorded at their fair values of $1 million, $197,000, and $702,000, respectively, on the dates of grant and had weighted average fair values of $24.42, $26.05 and $25.74 per share. During 2003, $1 million of restricted stock award expense was recognized and in 2002 and 2001, $2 million of expense was recognized.
 
(13) S' E
TOCKHOLDERS
QUITY
 
The following schedule reconciles the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted EPS computations for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Dilutive common shares arise from the potentially dilutive effect of NCF's stock options outstanding.
Earnings Per Share
 
 
NCF and the Subsidiary Banks are subject to risk-based capital guidelines requiring minimum capital levels based on the perceived risk of assets and off-balance sheet instruments. As required by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act, the federal bank regulatory agencies have jointly issued rules that implement a system of prompt corrective action for financial institutions. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, there are minimum ratios of capital to risk-weighted assets. The capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk-weightings and other factors. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material effect on NCF's consolidated financial statements.
Regulatory Matters
 
Disclosure about the Subsidiary Banks' capital adequacy are set forth in the table below. Tier I capital consists of common equity and trust preferred securities less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Tier I excludes the equity impact of adjusting available for sale securities to market value. Total capital is comprised of Tier I and Tier II capital. Tier II capital includes subordinated notes and loan loss allowance, as defined and limited according to regulatory guidelines. Balance sheet assets and the credit equivalent amount of off-balance sheet items per regulatory guidelines are assigned to broad risk categories and a category risk-weight is then applied. Management believes that as of December 31, 2003, NCF and the Subsidiary Banks met all capital adequacy requirements to which they were subject.
 
The risk-based capital and leverage ratios for NCF and NBC as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 are presented below.
 
 
As of their most recent regulatory examination date, the Subsidiary Banks were categorized as well-capitalized. No conditions or events have occurred since December 31, 2003 that would change the capital categorizations presented as of December 31, 2003.
 
NCF's mortgage banking operations and broker/dealer subsidiary are also required to maintain minimum net worth capital requirements with various governmental agencies. The mortgage banking operations' net worth requirements are governed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the broker/dealer's net worth requirements are governed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. As of December 31, 2003, these subsidiaries met their respective minimum net worth capital requirements.
 
Certain restrictions exist regarding the ability of the Subsidiary Banks to transfer funds to NCF in the form of cash dividends. Regulatory capital requirements must be met by the Subsidiary Banks as well as other requirements under applicable federal and state laws. Under these requirements, the Subsidiary Banks have approximately $253 million in retained earnings at December 31, 2003 that can be transferred to NCF in the form of cash dividends without prior regulatory approval. Management believes that it will be able to receive regulatory approval to transfer dividends in excess of that amount, if needed. Total dividends declared by the Subsidiary Banks to NCF in 2003 were $233 million. As a result of the above requirements, consolidated net assets of the Subsidiary Banks amounting to approximately $2.6 billion at December 31, 2003 were restricted from transfer to NCF without prior approval from regulatory agencies.
 
Under Federal Reserve regulations, the Subsidiary Banks are also limited as to the amount they may loan to affiliates, including the Parent Company, unless such loans are collateralized by specified obligations. At December 31, 2003, the Subsidiary Banks had loans to the Parent Company totaling $12 million.
 
(14) S I S I
UPPLEMENTARY
NCOME
TATEMENT
NFORMATION
 
Following is a breakdown of the components of "other operating" expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
 
 
(15) I T
NCOME
AXES
 
Income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were allocated as follows:
 
 
Components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows:
 
 
A reconciliation of income tax expense from continuing operations to the amount computed by multiplying income before income taxes by the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent follows:
 
 
At December 31, 2003 and 2002, NCF had recorded net deferred tax liabilities of $96 million and $174 million, respectively. A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. In management's opinion, it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred tax assets. Consequently, management has determined that a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets was not required at December 31, 2003 or 2002. The sources and tax effects of cumulative temporary differences that give rise to significant deferred tax assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2003 and 2002 are shown below:
 
 
(16) DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
In the third and fourth quarters of 2003, NCF sold substantially the entire merchant processing business. The $38 million gain realized on the sale is reported as income from discontinued operations, net of tax. Basic and diluted EPS for the after-tax discontinued operations were $.12 per share for the quarter ended September 30, 2003; discontinued operations had no impact on EPS for the quarter ended December 31, 2003. The operating results of this business were not material and have not been reclassified and reported as discontinued operations for financial reporting purposes. NCF has partnered with the third-party purchaser to continue to provide merchant services to NCF's customers and NCF may receive commissions under that arrangement.
 
(17) C, C O-B S R
OMMITMENTS
ONTINGENCIES
AND
FF
ALANCE
HEET
ISK
 
NCF's subsidiaries lease certain real property and equipment under long-term operating leases expiring at various dates to 2024. Total rental expense amounted to $29 million in 2003, $26 million in 2002 and $20 million in 2001. A summary of the commitments under noncancellable, long-term leases in effect at December 31, 2003 for each of the years ending December 31 follows:
Lease Commitments
 
 
Generally, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance expenses are obligations of the Subsidiary Banks. It is expected that in the normal course of business, leases that expire will be renewed or replaced by leases on other properties; thus, it is anticipated that future minimum lease commitments will not be less than the amounts shown for 2004.
 
Certain legal claims have arisen in the normal course of business in which NCF and certain of its Subsidiary Banks have been named as defendants. Although the amount of any ultimate liability with respect to such matters cannot be determined, in the opinion of management and counsel, any such liability will have no material effect on NCF's financial position or results of operations.
Litigation
 
NCF has settled a purported class action filed in December 2002 against NCF, NCF's subsidiaries First Mercantile Trust Company ("First Mercantile") and NBC, a subsidiary of First Mercantile, and two former officers of First Mercantile. The purported class action alleged, among other things, that fees collected by First Mercantile on investments held in common trust funds were improperly charged.
 
The settlement agreement has been approved by the federal court in Tennessee and all appeal periods have expired. The settlement agreement as approved by the court includes no admission of liability or wrongdoing by NCF or other defendants and, assuming all conditions are met, will fully resolve the lawsuit. Under the settlement, the plaintiff class will receive a total benefit with an estimated value of approximately $20 million, payable $12 million in cash and $8 million in go-forward fee reductions. The cash portion of the settlement was paid in October 2003.
 
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to customers as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. These commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Since many of these commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Each customer's credit worthiness is evaluated on a case-by-case basis and collateral, primarily real estate or business assets, is generally obtained. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Subsidiary Banks had commitments to extend credit of approximately $4.6 billion and $3.7 billion. These amounts include unused home equity lines and commercial real estate, construction and land development commitments of $1.7 billion and $1.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2003 and $1.5 billion and $937 million, respectively, at December 31, 2002.
Lending Commitments
 
Standby letters of credit are commitments issued by the Subsidiary Banks to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. Non-depreciable assets generally secure the standby letters of credit. The Subsidiary Banks had approximately $162 million and $89 million in outstanding standby letters of credit at December 31, 2003 and 2002.
 
NBC originates residential mortgage loans which are sold to outside investors in the normal course of business on a non-recourse basis. When mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market, representations and warranties regarding certain attributes of the loans sold are made to the third-party purchaser. These representations and warranties extend through the life of the mortgage loan. Subsequent to the sale, if inadvertent underwriting deficiencies or defects are discovered in individual mortgage loans, NBC may be obligated to repurchase the respective mortgage loan if such deficiencies or defects cannot be cured by NBC within the 90-day period following discovery.
Guarantees
 
Mortgage loans sold to outside investors for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $7.9 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. In the event that NBC repurchases a mortgage loan, NBC will record the mortgage loan as an asset and continue to collect principal and interest from the mortgagee. In the event that the mortgage loan goes into default, NBC may take possession of the property securing the mortgage loan and remarket the property to offset any potential losses.
 
Additionally, NBC may sell mortgage servicing rights and transfer the servicing obligation to a buyer in the ordinary course of business. NBC warrants and represents to the buyer that the underlying loans meet certain attributes and criteria. If, subsequent to the sale and transfer of the servicing rights, if inadvertent underwriting deficiencies or defects are discovered in individual underlying loans, NBC may be obligated to repurchase the respective mortgage loan or reimburse the buyer of any related loss if these deficiencies or defects cannot be cured.
 
NCF's mortgage banking and broker/dealer operations enter into transactions involving financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk in order to meet the financing and hedging needs of their customers and to reduce their own exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. Financial instruments for mortgage banking operations are discussed in Note 6. The broker/dealer operation's financial instruments include forward contracts, when issued contracts and options written. All such contracts are for U.S. Treasury, federal agency or municipal securities. These financial instruments involve varying degrees of credit and market risk. The contract amounts of those instruments reflect the extent of involvement in particular classes of financial instruments. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from movements in securities' market values and interest rates. The extent of broker/dealer financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk as of December 31 was as follows:
Off-balance Sheet Risk
 
 
(18) N C F C (P C)
ATIONAL
OMMERCE
INANCIAL
ORPORATION
ARENT
OMPANY
 
The Parent Company's principal assets are its investments in the Subsidiary Banks and dividends from the Subsidiary Banks are its primary source of income. Condensed Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related Condensed Statements of Income and Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, follow:
 
Condensed Balance Sheets
As of December 31, 2003 and 2002
 
 
Condensed Statements of Income
Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
 
 
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
 
 
(19) S I
EGMENT
NFORMATION
 
Management monitors NCF performance as two business segments, traditional banking and financial enterprises.
 
The traditional banking segment includes sales and distribution of financial products and services to individuals. These products and services include loan products such as residential mortgage, home equity lending, automobile and other personal financing needs. Traditional banking also offers various deposit products that are designed for customers' saving and transaction needs. This segment also includes lending and related financial services provided to small- to medium-sized companies. Included among these services are several specialty services such as real estate finance, asset-based lending and residential construction lending. The traditional banking segment also includes management of the investment portfolio and non-deposit based funding.
 
The financial enterprises segment is comprised of trust services and investment management, transaction processing, retail banking consulting/in-store licensing and broker/dealer activities.
 
The accounting policies of the individual segments are the same as those of NCF as described in Note 1. Transactions between business segments are conducted at arm's length. Interest income for tax-exempt loans and securities is adjusted to a taxable-equivalent basis.
 
The following tables present condensed income statements and average assets for each reportable segment.
 
 
(20) Q F D (U)
UARTERLY
INANCIAL
ATA
NAUDITED
 
The following table presents quarterly financial data for each quarter in the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. Third quarter 2003 results include the gain on sale of merchant processing as a discontinued operation as a result of our decision in the fourth quarter of 2003 to exit additional elements of that business. Other income and other expense for each quarter include the effect of reclassing the costs to originate mortgage loans held for sale against the origination fees earned on those loans as well as other reclassifications to conform to current period presentation.
 
 
(21) F V F I
AIR
ALUE
OF
INANCIAL
NSTRUMENTS
 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.
 
 
The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents approximate those assets' fair values.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Fair values for investment and trading account securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments.
Investment and Trading Account Securities
 
For variable rate loans that reprice frequently and with no significant change in credit risk, fair values are based on carrying values. The fair values for certain mortgage loans (e.g., one-to-four family residential) and certain consumer loans are based on quoted market prices of similar loans sold in conjunction with securitization transactions, adjusted for differences in loan characteristics. The fair values for other loans are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, using interest rates currently offered for loans with similar terms to borrowers of similar credit quality. The carrying amount of accrued interest approximates its fair value.
Net Loans
 
The fair values disclosed for demand deposits (e.g., interest and noninterest checking, passbook savings and certain types of money market accounts) are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts). The carrying amounts for variable-rate, fixed-term money market accounts and certificates of deposit approximate their fair values at the reporting date. Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently offered on certificates to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits.
Deposits
 
The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values. The fair values of FHLB advances, trust preferred securities and long-term debt are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on NCF's incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements.
Borrowings
 
Fair values for interest rate swaps are based on discounted cash flow projections under the swap agreements based on assumptions about future interest rate movements.
Interest Rate Swaps
 
The Subsidiary Banks have commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit. These types of credit are made at market rates; therefore, there would be no market risk associated with these credits that would create a significant fair value liability.
Off-balance Sheet Financial Instruments
 
 
Management is responsible for the content of the financial information included in this annual report. The financial statements from which the financial information has been drawn are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Other information in this report is consistent with the financial statements.
 
In meeting its responsibility, management relies on the system on internal accounting control and related control systems. Elements of these systems include selection and training of qualified personnel, establishment and communication of accounting and administrative policies and procedures, appropriate segregation of responsibilities and programs of internal audit. These systems are designed to provide reasonable assurance that financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorized use or disposition. Such assurance cannot be absolute because of inherent limitations in any system of internal control. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that the cost of a system of internal control should not exceed the benefit derived and that the evaluation of such cost and benefit necessarily requires estimates and judgments.
 
KPMG LLP, independent auditors, audited NCF's consolidated financial statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. These standards include a study and evaluation of internal control for the purpose of establishing a basis for reliance thereon relative to the determination of the scope of their audits.
 
The voting members of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors consist solely of independent Directors. The Audit Committee meets periodically with management, NCF's internal auditors and the independent auditors to discuss audit, financial reporting and related matters. KPMG LLP and the internal auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee.
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
National Commerce Financial Corporation:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of National Commerce Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of National Commerce Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Standards No. 142, .
Goodwill and Other Intangibles Assets
 
KPMG LLP
 
Memphis, Tennessee
January 23, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
Commitments and contingencies (note 11)
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
(1) CONSOLIDATION AND PRESENTATION
 
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of National Commerce Financial Corporation ("NCF") have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, the accompanying financial statements reflect all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of NCF on a consolidated basis, and all such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature. These financial statements and the notes thereto should be read in conjunction with NCF's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. Operating results for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2004 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2004.
 
CONSOLIDATION. NCF is a bank holding company that provides diverse financial services through a regional network of banking affiliates and a national network of nonbanking affiliates. NCF's wholly owned banking subsidiaries include National Bank of Commerce ("NBC") and NBC Bank, FSB. The consolidated financial statements also include the accounts and results of operations of NCF's direct and indirect wholly owned non-bank subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
 
NCF has two business segments: traditional banking and financial enterprises. Financial enterprises include transaction processing, trust services and investment management, retail banking consulting/in-store licensing and broker/dealer activities.
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2004 presentation. The reclassifications had no effect on net income available for common stockholders.
 
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS. On May 9, 2004, NCF announced that it had signed a definitive merger agreement with SunTrust Banks, Inc. The proposed merger, which is subject to approval by regulatory authorities and by shareholders of both companies, is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2004. Under the terms of the definitive merger agreement, which has been approved by both boards of directors, NCF shareholders will have the right, subject to proration, to elect to receive cash or SunTrust common stock, in either case having a value equal to $8.625 plus .3713 SunTrust shares. During the second quarter of 2004, NCF incurred $8 million of investment advisor, contract termination and other expense directly attributable to the proposed merger.
 
EARNINGS PER SHARE. Basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding plus dilutive stock options (as computed under the treasury stock method) assumed to have been exercised during the period.
 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME. Comprehensive income is the change in equity during the period from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources. Total comprehensive income is comprised of net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 and accumulated other comprehensive income as of June 30, 2004, December 31, 2003 and June 30, 2003 are comprised of unrealized gains and losses on investment securities available for sale, unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges and adjustments of minimum pension liability.
 
 
(1) CONSOLIDATION AND PRESENTATION (Continued)
 
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION. NCF from time to time grants stock options for a fixed number of shares to employees with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares on the date of grant, which become exercisable on certain future dates with continued service by employees. NCF has elected to account for these stock option grants in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and accordingly, recognizes no compensation expense for these stock option grants. For all variable stock option grants, which include any grant that is not at a fixed exercise price or whose vesting is dependent on future performance or some event other than the passage of time, compensation expense is recognized in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25 over the period the employee performs related service, also called the vesting period.
 
NCF discloses pro forma net income and earnings per share in the notes to its consolidated financial statements as if compensation expense was measured under the fair value based method according to Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-based Compensation." Under the fair value based method, compensation cost is measured at the grant date of the option based on the value of the award and is recognized over the service period, which is usually the vesting period. Had compensation expense for the stock option plans been determined consistent with Statement No. 123, NCF's net income and net income per share for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below. These pro forma amounts may not be representative of the effect on reported net income for future periods.
 
 
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY. NCF adopted the provisions of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105 on April 1, 2004. It requires all registrants to account for mortgage loan interest rate lock commitments related to loans held for sale as written options, effective no later than for commitments entered into after March 31, 2004. NCF enters into such commitments with customers in connection with residential mortgage loan applications. This guidance requires NCF to recognize a liability on its balance sheet equal to the fair value of the commitment at the time the loan commitment is issued. As a result, this guidance delays the recognition of any revenue related to these commitments until such time as the loan is sold; however, it has no effect on the ultimate amount of revenue or cash flows recognized over time. Implementation of this guidance during the second quarter of 2004 did not have a material impact on NCF.
 
 
(2) LOANS
 
Management internally classifies the loan portfolio by the purpose of the borrowing. Such classification is presented below as of June 30, 2004 and December 31, 2003. This classification method emphasizes the source of loan repayment rather than the collateral for the loan, which is the classification method followed for regulatory reporting purposes.
 
 
(3) ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
Following is the activity in the allowance for loan losses during the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
 
(4) NONPERFORMING ASSETS
 
Following is a summary of nonperforming assets as of June 30, 2004, December 31, 2003 and June 30, 2003:
 
 
(5) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2003 and six months ended June 30, 2004 for NCF's business segments are as follows:
 
 
Core deposit intangibles are amortized over a period of up to 10 years using an accelerated method. Following is an analysis of core deposit intangibles:
 
 
 
(6) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
The following table presents the components of other comprehensive income and the related tax effects allocated for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
(7) FHLB ADVANCES
 
Maturities of FHLB advances for each of the years ending December 31 are as follows:
 
 
 
(8) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
The following tables disclose the components of the net periodic benefit costs and the assumptions used in computing those costs for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 for NCF's pension and other benefit plans:
 
 
(9) PER SHARE DATA
 
The following schedule presents the components of the basic and diluted EPS computations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003. Dilutive common shares arise from the potentially dilutive effect of NCF's stock options outstanding.
 
 
 
(10) SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
 
Following is a breakdown of the components of "other expense" on the Consolidated Statement of Income for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
(11) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Certain legal claims have arisen in the normal course of business in which NCF and certain of its subsidiary banks have been named as defendants. Although the amount of any ultimate liability with respect to such matters cannot be determined, in the opinion of management and counsel, any such liability will have no material effect on NCF's financial position or results of operations.
 
On May 9, 2004, a shareholder of NCF filed a purported class action complaint in the Circuit Court of Shelby County, Tennessee against NCF and each member of the NCF board of directors. On May 21, 2004, another shareholder of NCF filed a purported class action complaint in the same court. The substantially identical complaints have been consolidated into one lawsuit and allege that the NCF board of directors breached its fiduciary duties to the NCF shareholders in approving and adopting the merger agreement by, among other things, failing to wait until after announcement of 2
nd
quarter 2004 operating results in order to achieve a higher price for the company and by attempting to trigger the payment of certain change of control payments to NCF's senior management. The consolidated lawsuit seeks, among other things, to enjoin the completion of the merger and to recover costs and disbursements incurred by the plaintiffs, including reasonable attorney fees and expert fees. Simultaneously with the filing of the lawsuits, the plaintiffs propounded requests for production of documents controlled by NCF and its directors. NCF and its directors served written responses and objections thereto on June 25, 2004 and produced responsive documents to the plaintiffs on July 7, 2004. NCF believes that these lawsuits are entirely without merit and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuits.
 
In December 2002, NCF completed the acquisition of BancMortgage, an Atlanta-based mortgage originator. Approximately 611,000 shares of NCF common stock were issued and $5 million of goodwill was initially recorded in the transaction. In accordance with the merger agreement, additional consideration, shares of NCF common stock and cash, may be paid based on a multiple of pretax earnings for the three years ended December 31, 2005, provided such amount exceeds consideration already exchanged. Any contingent payment will be recorded as goodwill.
 
 
(12) SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
Management monitors NCF performance as two business segments, traditional banking and financial enterprises.
 
The traditional banking segment includes sales and distribution of financial products and services to individuals. These products and services include loan products such as residential mortgage, home equity lending, automobile and other personal financing needs. Traditional banking products also include various deposit products that are designed for customers' saving and transaction needs. This segment also includes lending and related financial services provided to small- to medium-sized companies. Included among these services are several specialty services such as real estate finance, asset-based lending and residential construction lending. The traditional banking segment also includes management of the investment portfolio and non-deposit based funding.
 
The financial enterprises segment is comprised of trust services and investment management, transaction processing, retail banking consulting/in-store licensing and broker/dealer activities.
 
The accounting policies of the individual segments are the same as those of NCF. Transactions between business segments are conducted at arm's length. Interest income for tax-exempt loans and securities is adjusted to a taxable-equivalent basis.
 
The following tables present condensed income statements for each reportable segment:
 
 
 
(12) SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued)
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined financial statements of SunTrust Banks, Inc. (SunTrust) and National Commerce Financial (NCF) may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined as of June 30, 2004 (with respect to the balance sheet information, using currently available fair value information) or as of January 1, 2003 (with respect to income statement information). The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information shows the impact of the merger of SunTrust and NCF on the companies' respective historical financial positions and results of operations under the purchase method of accounting with SunTrust treated as the acquirer. Under this method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of NCF will be recorded by SunTrust at their estimated fair values as of the merger date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information combines the historical financial information of SunTrust and NCF as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2004 assumes the merger was completed on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income give effect to the merger as if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2003.
 
SunTrust issued approximately 76.4 million shares of common stock and $1.8 billion in cash consideration to NCF common shareholders based on the average of the closing prices of SunTrust common stock for the five trading days immediately before the merger and an estimate of NCF's outstanding common shares as of the merger date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and the related notes of both SunTrust and NCF which are incorporated in this document by reference.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined and had the impact of possible revenue enhancements, expense efficiencies, asset dispositions and share repurchases, among other factors, been considered. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the allocation of the purchase price reflected in the pro forma condensed combined financial information is subject to adjustment and may vary from the actual purchase price allocation.
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE
 
On November 12, 2004, SunTrust restated its unaudited historical financial statements for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004. The restatement pertains to a misstatement of SunTrust's Allowance for Loan Losses during these periods, as a result of errors and internal control deficiencies. The restatement does not affect SunTrust's audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information contained herein as of and for the period ended June 30, 2004 reflects the impact of this restatement. See SunTrust's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the periods ended March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004, which are being filed concurrently with this Amendment to Current Report on Form 8-K/A, for more detailed information concerning the restatement.
 
The following preliminary unaudited proforma condensed combined balance sheet combines the historical balance sheets of SunTrust and National Commerce Financial assuming the companies had been combined on June 30, 2004 on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement combines the historical income statements of SunTrust and National Commerce Financial assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2003 on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement combines the historical income statements of SunTrust and National Commerce Financial assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2003 on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the merger is included for the year ended December 31, 2003 and as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2004. The pro forma adjustments included herein reflect the issuance of approximately 76.4 million shares of SunTrust common stock and $1.8 billion in cash consideration to NCF common shareholders, based on the average of the closing prices of SunTrust common stock for the five trading days immediately before the merger and an estimate of NCF's outstanding common shares as of the merger date. The estimated purchase price of $7.4 billion, which includes the value of outstanding stock options, is based on a per share price for SunTrust common stock of $70.41, which was the closing price of SunTrust common stock on the day before the completion of the merger.
 
The merger is being accounted for using the purchase method of accounting; accordingly, SunTrust's cost to acquire NCF will be allocated to the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities (including executory contracts and other commitments) of NCF at their respective fair values as of the merger date.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes estimated adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of NCF at their respective fair values and represents SunTrust's estimates based on available information. The pro forma adjustments included herein may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. Some revisions could be significant, especially fair value adjustments based on interest rate assumptions. The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined after completion of final analyses to determine the fair values of NCF's tangible, and identifiable intangible, assets and liabilities as of the merger date. Accordingly, the final purchase accounting adjustments and integration charges may be materially different from the pro forma adjustments presented in this document. Increases or decreases in the fair value of the net assets, commitments, executory contracts and other items of NCF as compared to the information shown in this document may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in yield and/or amortization of the adjusted assets or liabilities.
 
The pro forma financial statements do not currently include any amount related to the estimated $77.5 million after-tax ($125.0 million pre-tax) merger related charges that will be incurred to combine the operations of SunTrust and NCF. The estimated merger related charges will result from action taken with respect to both SunTrust and NCF operations, facilities and associates. The charges will be recorded based on the nature and timing of these integration actions. These charges are also subject to change as additional information becomes known. The pro forma financial statements also do not currently include any amount related to potential efficiencies (i.e., cost reductions and revenue growth) that may be realized from the merger.
 
Certain amounts in the historical consolidated financial statements of NCF have been reclassified to conform with SunTrust's historical financial information presentation. Discontinued operations separately reported in NCF's historical consolidated statements of income have been excluded. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the merger been completed at the beginning of the applicable period presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
 
Note 2  Pro Forma Adjustments
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the merger includes the pro forma balance sheet as of June 30, 2004 assuming the merger was completed on June 30, 2004 (using currently available fair value information). The pro forma income statements for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003 were prepared assuming the merger was completed on January 1, 2003.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the issuance of approximately 76.4 million shares of SunTrust common stock based on the average of the closing stock prices for SunTrust common stock during the five trading days immediately before the merger and an estimate of NCF's outstanding common shares as of the merger date. The aggregate value of approximately $7.4 billion was based on the closing price of SunTrust common stock on the day before the completion of the merger. Also reflected in the pro forma condensed combined financial information is a $1.8 billion cash payment to NCF common shareholders.
The allocation of the purchase price follows:
 
 
 
The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information are as follows:
 
 
 
are based on current assumptions and valuations. The final adjustment may be significantly different. The impact of the adjustment was to decrease interest income by approximately $3.0 million and $12.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


