FILE:STI/STI-8K-20041208154115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On October 1, 2004 SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("Registrant") filed a Form 8-K under Item 8.01 thereof to report that it had completed its previously-announced merger between Registrant and National Commerce Financial Corporation, effective as of October 1, 2004. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is additional information regarding the merger of National Commerce Financial Corporation with and into Registrant and the proposed merger of National Bank of Commerce, NBC Bank, FSB and SunTrust Bankcard, N.A. with and into SunTrust Bank.
 
The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.1 referenced therein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)Exhibits. The exhibit listed in the exhibit index is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD as a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Merger of National Commerce Financial Corporation with and into SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust Banks") and proposed merger of National Bank of Commerce, NBC Bank, FSB and SunTrust BankCard, N.A., with and into SunTrust Bank (the "Bank")
 
Effective October 1, 2004, National Commerce Financial Corporation, a Tennessee corporation and a registered bank holding company ("NCF"), merged with and into SunTrust Banks, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 7, 2004, between NCF and SunTrust Banks (the "Holding Company Merger"). As of June 30, 2004, NCF had total assets of $24.0 billion, total liabilities of $21.3 billion and total shareholders' equity of $2.8 billion. As a result of the Holding Company Merger, SunTrust Banks issued approximately 76.4 million shares of common stock and paid an aggregate of $1.8 billion to the former shareholders of NCF.
 
In the second quarter of 2005, SunTrust Banks intends to merge National Bank of Commerce ("NBC"), which was the primary banking subsidiary of NCF, NBC Bank, FSB ("NBCFSB"), which was a thrift institution subsidiary of NCF, and SunTrust BankCard, N.A. ("BankCard"), which is SunTrust Banks' credit card bank subsidiary, with and into the Bank (the "Bank Mergers"). NBC is a national banking association with its main office in Memphis, Tennessee and with its operations headquarters in Durham, North Carolina. In certain markets, NBC operates under the name "Central Carolina Bank", or CCB, and "Wal-Mart Money Center by National Bank of Commerce". As of September 30, 2004, NBC offered commercial and retail banking, savings and trust services through 258 CCB offices located in North Carolina and South Carolina, 26 Wal-Mart Money Centers in Georgia and Tennessee, 181 NBC offices located in Tennessee, Mississippi, Arkansas, Georgia, Virginia and West Virginia and nine El Banco branches located in Georgia. As of September 30, 2004, NBC had total assets of $23.9 billion, total liabilities of $21.0 billion and total equity capital of $2.9 billion. NBCFSB is a federal savings bank with its main office in DeSoto County, Mississippi, and with its operations headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. As of September 30, 2004, NBCFSB offered primarily retail consumer banking services through 3 offices located in DeSoto County, Mississippi and a Wal-Mart Money Center located in Poinciana, Florida. As of September 30, 2004, NBCFSB had total assets of $26.7 million, total liabilities of $21.3 million and total equity capital of $5.3 million. BankCard is a national bank with its main office in Orlando, Florida. BankCard is a limited purpose credit card bank that issues credit cards to small and middle market businesses. As of September 30, 2004, BankCard had total assets of $197.2 million, total liabilities of $168.9 million and total equity capital of $28.3 million.
 
Each of NBC and BankCard files Call Reports, and NBCFSB files Thrift Financial Reports, with its primary federal regulator. Such Call Reports and Thrift Financial Reports are on file with, and publicly available upon written request to, the FDIC, 801 17
th
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20434, attention: Public Information Center, or by calling the FDIC at 1-202-416-6940.
 
The completion of the Bank Mergers is subject to a number of conditions and receipt of all required regulatory approvals. Although it is currently anticipated that the Bank Mergers will take place in the second quarter of 2005, no assurance can be given as to when, or if, the Bank Mergers will occur.
 
Selected Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been prepared to reflect the Bank Mergers. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet presents how the combined balance sheets of NBC, NBCFSB, BankCard and the Bank (the "Merged Banks") may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined as of September 30, 2004. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income present how the combined income statements of the Merged Banks may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined as of January 1, 2003.
 
The mergers of NBC and NBCFSB with and into the Bank are being accounted for using the purchase method of accounting; accordingly, SunTrust Banks' cost to acquire NBC and NBCFSB will be allocated to the assets (including identifiable intangible assets such as core deposit intangibles) and liabilities at their respective fair values on the date the Holding Company Merger was consummated. The purchase accounting adjustments reflected herein are based on current assumptions and valuations, which are subject to change. These changes may result in purchase accounting adjustments that materially vary from those presented in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. The merger of BankCard with and into the Bank is being accounted for on a pooling-like basis due to both entities being under common control.
 
        The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only. Certain amounts in the historical consolidated financial statements of NBC have been reclassified to conform with the Bank's historical financial information presentation. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the merger been completed at the beginning of the applicable periods presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined bank.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information under the bank headings is based on the Call Reports of the Bank, BankCard and NBC and, with respect to NBCFSB, on its Thrift Financial Reports. The Call Reports of each of the Bank and NBC include the financial information of the Bank and its consolidated subsidiaries, and NBC and its consolidated subsidiaries, respectively.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement does not reflect (a) anticipated expenses and nonrecurring charges that may result from the Holding Company Merger and the Bank Mergers, (b) estimated expense savings and revenue enhancements anticipated to result from the Holding Company Merger and the Bank Mergers and (c) any changes required or which may be required by any regulatory authority. The unaudited pro forma condensed Combined financial information does not reflect the issuance of $350 million of 5.20% 12-year Fixed Rate Suboridinated Notes of SunTrust Bank which were issued December 8, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of the pro forma adjustments shown here, the Bank has estimated $343.5 million of intangibles which consists of a core deposit intangible of approximately $327.0 million and other identifiable intangibles of approximately $16.5 million. The Bank estimates the core deposit intangible will be amortized over ten years using the sum of the years digit method and the other intangibles will be amortized over an estimated weighted average of 7.3 years using the straight line method.
 
 
 
 
million adjustment is for deferred tax liabilities, net of deferred tax assets, resulting from the pro forma adjustments. Deferred taxes were recorded using the Bank's statutory tax rate of 38.0%. These adjustments are based on current assumptions and valuations, which are subject to change.
 
 
 
 
Capitalization of the Bank
 
The following table sets forth the actual unaudited consolidated capitalization of the Bank as of September 30, 2004, pro forma capitalization giving effect to the Bank Mergers and pro forma capitalization as adjusted to give effect both to the Bank Mergers and the issuance of the Notes offered hereby (dollars in thousands):
 


