FILE:STI/STI-8K-20041015171653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 14, 2004
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code    (404) 588-7711
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    
Item 8.01.    Other Events
On October 14, 2004, SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust" or the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing that it has received notice from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") that the SEC is conducting an informal inquiry into the circumstances surrounding SunTrust's recent announcement that it expects to restate its financial statements for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2004 and related matters. A copy of this press release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)    Exhibits.
99.1 Press release issued by SunTrust on October 14, 2004.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 15, 2004

Exhibit 99.1                     SUNTRUST ANNOUNCES INFORMAL SEC INQUIRYATLANTA, Oct. 14 -- SunTrust Banks, Inc. (NYSE: STI) announced today that it hasreceived notice from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that the SECis conducting an informal inquiry into the circumstances surrounding SunTrust'srecent announcement that it expects to restate its financial statements for thefirst and second quarters of fiscal 2004 and related matters. SunTrust intendsto cooperate and will provide information and documents to the SEC on avoluntary basis.SunTrust Banks, Inc., headquartered in Atlanta, is one of the nation's largestcommercial banking organizations. The company operates an extensive distributionnetwork primarily in Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina,Tennessee, Virginia and the District of Columbia and also serves customers inselected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit,trust and investment services. Through various subsidiaries the company providescredit cards, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and capital marketsservices. SunTrust's Internet address is http://www.suntrust.com.The information provided herein may contain forward-looking statements.Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about SunTrust'sbeliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements arebased on beliefs and assumptions by SunTrust's management, and on informationcurrently available to such management. The forward-looking statements areintended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by Section 27A ofthe Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of1934. Forward-looking statements include statements preceded by, followed by orthat include the words "intends," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "plans,""estimates," or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as "will,""should," "would," and "could." Forward- looking statements speak only as of thedate they are made, and SunTrust undertakes no obligation to update publicly anyof them in light of new information or future events. Forward-looking statementsinvolve inherent risks and uncertainties. Management cautions that a number ofimportant factors could cause actual results to differ materially from thosecontained in any forward-looking statement. Examples of such factors include,but are not limited to: the results of the inquiry by the SEC, as describedabove, and the results of the review being conducted by the Company's AuditCommittee in connection with the Company's 2004 financial results. For a morethorough discussion of factors that could impact actual results, see the "AWarning About Forward-Looking Information" section of SunTrust's 2003 annualreport filed on Form 10-K with the SEC. For further information regardingSunTrust, please read the SunTrust reports filed with the SEC and available athttp://www.sec.gov.


