FILE:STI/STI-8K-20050211151559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 11, 2005
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (404) 588-7711
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On February 10, 2005, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") entered into the Fourth Amendment to its Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "SunTrust SERP"). Pursuant to the amendment, the amount of compensation earned by a Tier I Participant (as defined in the SunTrust SERP) pursuant to the Registrant's Performance Unit Plan (the "PUP") that may be included in such Participant's SERP Compensation (as defined in the SunTrust SERP) for any calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2005 shall not exceed the corresponding payout level (at minimum, target or maximum) established for such Participant's February 2004 PUP award. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Fourth Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference.
On December 31, 2004, the Registrant amended the National Commerce Financial Corporation ("NCF") Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "NCF SERP") to freeze the NCF SERP as to new participants and to freeze the NCF SERP as to benefit accruals for participants in the NCF SERP, each effective as of the close of business on December 31, 2004. In connection with the Registrant's October 2004 acquisition of NCF (the "NCF Merger"), the Registrant, as the successor in interest to NCF, succeeded to the responsibilities of NCF and became the primary sponsor under the NCF SERP. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated by reference.
On December 31, 2004, the Registrant amended the NCF Equity Investment Plan (the "NCF EIP") to freeze the NCF EIP as to new participants and to provide that the NCF EIP will not accept any new deferrals from existing participants nor credit any matching contributions to participants' accounts in accordance with the terms of the NCF EIP, each effective as of the close of business on December 31, 2004. In connection with the NCF Merger, the Registrant, as the successor in interest to NCF, succeeded to the responsibilities of NCF and became the primary sponsor under the NCF EIP. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 11, 2005

EXHIBIT 10.1                  Fourth Amendment to the SunTrust Banks, Inc.                     Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan                (Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2001)         WHEREAS, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Corporation") has adopted andsponsors the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan (the "SERP"); and         WHEREAS, ss. 11 of the SERP authorizes the Compensation Committee ofthe Corporation's Board to amend the SERP from time to time; and         WHEREAS, on February 7, 2005, the Compensation Committee approved anamendment to the definition of SERP Compensation to limit the maximum amount ofPerformance Unit Plan awards for that may be included for Tier 1 Participants.         NOW, THEREFORE, IN WITNESS WHEREOF, as authorized by the Committee, theHuman Resources Director hereby adopts the following amendment to the SERP,effective January 1, 2005:         The definition of SERP Compensation in ss. 2.17 is further amended by         revising ss. 2.17(a)(ii) to read as follows:                  (ii) the amount of the cash bonuses such Participant earns         under the MIP and the PUP for the year, without regard to whether any         such bonus may be subject to elective or mandatory deferral or, if not         deferred, may be paid in the year following the calendar year in which         such bonus is earned. Notwithstanding the preceding provision, the         amount of the PUP that may be included in SERP Compensation for any         calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2005, shall not exceed         the corresponding payout level (at minimum, target or maximum)         established for the Tier 1 Participant's February 2004 PUP award. As         allowed by ss. 2.12, the Committee has designated a substitute plan to         be treated as though it were the PUP award earned for the 2003-2005         cycle as described in the following sentence. The fair market value on         the date of vesting of a Tier 1 Participant's February 11, 2003         restricted stock grant shall be used in the same manner in calculating         such Participant's SERP Compensation as if it were the amount of the         PUP cash award earned for the cycle including 2003-2005.         EXECUTED this 10th day of February, 2005.SunTrust Banks, Inc.                        AttestBy:   /s/ Mary T. Steele                    By:     ---------------------------                -----------------------      Mary T. Steele      Human Resources Director              Title:                                                  ---------------------

EXHIBIT 10.2                                AMENDMENT TO THE                     NATIONAL COMMERCE FINANCIAL CORPORATION                     SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN     THIS AMENDMENT to the National Commerce Financial Corporation SupplementalRetirement Plan, as amended and restated effective August 1, 2001 (the "Plan"),is made on this 31st day of December 2004, on behalf of the primary sponsor.                              W I T N E S S E T H:     WHEREAS, SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust"), as successor in interest toNational Commerce Financial Corporation ("NCFC"), became the Corporation underthe Plan on October 1, 2004; and     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8.1 of the Plan, the Corporation may amend anyor all of the provisions of the Plan at any time; and     WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Board is responsible foroversight of the administration and operation of certain employee benefit plansmaintained by SunTrust; and     WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee has delegated authority to the Directorof Human Resource, the Benefits Plan Committee and the Deferral Committee toamend, terminate or merge employee benefit plans acquired in connection with acorporate merger or acquisition; and     WHEREAS, the Deferral Committee adopted a resolution on December 16, 2004,approving the freeze of the Plan in order to coordinate the NCF benefits withthe benefits provided by SunTrust.     NOW, THEREFORE, the Human Resources Director has executed this Amendment onbehalf of the Corporation.     EXECUTED this 31st day of December, 2004.SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.                        ATTESTBy: /s/ Mary Steele                         By: /s/ Margaret U. Hodson    ----------------------------                --------------------------------Title: Executive VP/HR Director             Title: Assistant Corporate Secretary
EXHIBIT 1                                AMENDMENT TO THE                     NATIONAL COMMERCE FINANCIAL CORPORATION                     SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN                AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, 2001     The National Commerce Financial Corporation Retirement Plan, as amended andrestated effective August 1, 2001, is further amended by adding the followingparagraph to the Introduction, effective as of the close of business on December31, 2004.     Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 7, 2004, by     and between National Commerce Financial Corporation ("NCF") and SunTrust     Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust"), NCF was merged into and with SunTrust on October     1, 2004. As a result of such merger, SunTrust has succeeded to the     responsibilities of NCF and has become the primary sponsor under the Plan.     Accordingly, on and after October 1, 2004, each reference to the     Corporation shall be a reference to SunTrust.     Effective as of the close of business on December 31, 2004, the Plan is     frozen as to new Participants and frozen as to benefit accruals for current     Participants. Therefore, the benefit of each Participant who is not in pay     status as of December 31, 2004, shall be determined and frozen as of     December 31, 2004 and any changes occurring after 2004, such as changes in     "Compensation" or "Final Average Monthly Compensation" or Credited Service     shall be disregarded.

EXHIBIT 10.3                                AMENDMENT TO THE                     NATIONAL COMMERCE FINANCIAL CORPORATION                             EQUITY INVESTMENT PLAN     THIS AMENDMENT to the National Commerce Financial Corporation EquityInvestment Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2002 (the "Plan"),is made on this 31st day of December 2004, on behalf of the Primary Sponsor.                              W I T N E S S E T H:     WHEREAS, SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust"), as successor in interest toNational Commerce Financial Corporation ("NCF"), became the Primary Sponsor ofthe Plan on October 1, 2004; and     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 13.1 of the Plan, the Plan Sponsor or anysuccessor through action of its Board or its delegate may modify or amend orterminate the Plan; and     WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Board is responsible foroversight of the administration and operation of certain employee benefit plans;and     WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee has delegated authority to the HumanResources Director and to the Benefits Plan Committee and the Deferral Committeeto amend, terminate or merge employee benefit plans acquired in connection witha corporate merger or acquisition and the Human Resources Director has deemed itnecessary and appropriate to amend the Plan to coordinate the NCF benefits withthe benefits provided by SunTrust.     NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Plan is amended and modified as setforth below, effective as of the close of business on December 31, 2004:     The following paragraph is added to the end of the Introduction:          Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 7, 2004,          by and between National Commerce Financial Corporation ("NCF") and          SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust"), NCF was merged into and with          SunTrust on October 1, 2004. As a result of such merger, SunTrust has          succeeded to the responsibilities of NCF and has become the Primary          Sponsor under the Plan. Accordingly, on and after October 1, 2004,          each reference to the Primary Sponsor shall be a reference to          SunTrust.          Effective as of the close of business on December 31, 2004, the Plan          is frozen as to new Participants and the Plan will not accept any new          deferrals from existing Participants nor credit any Matching          Contributions to Accounts pursuant to Section 3.3 (although the Plan          will continue to credit accounts with earnings and losses on amounts          deferred prior to January 1, 2005).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Human Resources Director has executed thisAmendment on this 31st day of December, 2004.                                              ATTESTBy: /s/ Mary Steele                       By: /s/ Margaret U. Hodson    ---------------------------               ----------------------------------Title: Executive VP/HR Director           Title: First V.P and Assistant                                                 Corporate Secretary                                       2


