FILE:STI/STI-8K-20060814083051.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     Representatives of SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") are scheduled to make a presentation at the 2006 Large Cap Bank Conference hosted by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods on Monday, August 14, 2006, at approximately 9:15 a.m. Eastern Time. A copy of the slide package to be used by the Registrant at this conference is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. Such slide package will also be available on the Registrant's web site at www.suntrust.com. Information contained on the Registrant's website is expressly not incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the slide package speaks as of the date thereof and the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update said information in the future.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


