FILE:STI/STI-8K-20060828125600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On August 28, 2006, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") announced that it received a letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") informing it that the Staff of the SEC had terminated its investigation of the Registrant and that no enforcement action had been recommended to the SEC. A copy of the news release issued by the Registrant making such announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1    News release dated August 28, 2006.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
August 28, 2006
ATLANTA, August 28  SunTrust Banks, Inc. (NYSE: STI) said today it has been notified by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that a formal inquiry underway since January 2005 into matters concerning the restatement of SunTrust's financial statements for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2004 and related matters has been terminated and no enforcement action has been recommended to the Commission.
"We are pleased with this outcome," said SunTrust Chairman and CEO L. Phillip Humann.
SunTrust Banks, Inc., headquartered in Atlanta, is one of the nation's largest banking organizations, serving a broad range of consumer, commercial, corporate and institutional clients. As of June 30, 2006, SunTrust had total assets of $181.1 billion and total deposits of $124.9 billion. The Company operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high-growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states and a full array of technology-based, 24- hour delivery channels. The Company also serves customers in selected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit, trust and investment services. Through various subsidiaries the Company provides credit cards, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage, equipment leasing and capital markets services. SunTrust's Internet address is suntrust.com.


