FILE:STI/STI-8K-20060112152624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K/A
AMENDMENT NO. 1
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
December 30, 2005                                                            
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
                                                                
(404)588-7711
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Explanatory Note
On January 6, 2006 SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the Registrant) filed a Current Report on Form 8-K in connection with amendments to the Registrants ERISA Excess Retirement Plan and 401(k) Excess Plan. The Registrant inadvertently misidentified the amendment to the 401(k) Excess Plan as the Sixth Amendment as opposed to the Fourth Amendment and inadvertently filed the incorrect document as Exhibit 10.2. This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends the Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 6, 2006 to restate Items 1.01 and 9.01 and Exhibit 10.2 to correct these errors. With the exception of the corrections described above, the Registrant has not otherwise modified or updated the disclosures in the Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 6, 2006.
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 30, 2005, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") amended its ERISA Excess Retirement Plan to increase the maximum amount of compensation that can be used to calculate the benefit for a participant whose compensation is restricted. The ERISA Excess Retirement Plan provides certain key executives of the Registrant retirement benefits not provided under the Registrant's qualified Retirement Plan because of governmental limits on pension benefits. Pursuant to the amendment, the maximum amount of compensation that can be used to calculate the benefit for a participant whose compensation is restricted increased from $300,000 to two times the annual compensation limit for qualified plans under section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference.
On December 30, 2005, the Registrant entered into the Fourth Amendment to its 401(k) Excess Plan, which is a non-qualified plan that provides unfunded defined contribution plan benefits to certain management employees not otherwise permitted to be provided under the Registrant's qualified 401(k) plan because of governmental limits on contributions and benefits. Pursuant to the amendment, the limit on the amount of compensation that can be used to calculate benefits under the plan will increase from $300,000 to two times the annual compensation limit for qualified plans under section 401(a)(17) of the Code. In addition, the amendment changes the definition of compensation to include non-deferred payments from the Registrant's Management Incentive Plan as part of the deferral base. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Fourth Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the Undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 10.1
Amendment to the SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Retirement Plan Effective August 13, 1996
WHEREAS, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Corporation") has adopted and currently sponsors the SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Retirement Plan, effective August 13, 1996 and as subsequently amended (the "Excess Plan"); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10 of the Excess Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Corporation's Board of Directors is responsible for the administration of the Excess Plan and is authorized to amend the Excess Plan in any respect whatsoever; and
WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee pursuant to Section 10 of the Excess Plan has delegated authority to the Human Resources Director and other appropriate officers and to the Benefits Plan Committee and the Deferral Plan Committee, as applicable, or their delegates to take actions to adopt and implement certain amendments approved by the Compensation Committee on November 7, 2005, as well as other amendments that they may deem appropriate, without further authorization of the Compensation Committee except for any matters which counsel to the Corporation believes will have a material financial impact on SunTrust; and
WHEREAS, the undersigned is a Senior Vice President of the Corporation, a member of the Benefits Department and also a member of both the Benefits Plan Committee and the Deferral Plan Committee.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED That the Excess Plan is amended as follows, effective January 1, 2006:
For any Participant who retires or terminates employment with the Corporation and its Affiliates after December 31, 2004, unless otherwise excepted by the Compensation Committee, the Compensation used to compute his Excess Benefit may not exceed two times the annual compensation limit for qualified plans under Code section 401(a)(17), as adjusted annually for increases in the cost-of-living.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Amendment to the Excess Plan on this 30th day of December 2005.

EXHIBIT 10.2
Amendment Number Four to the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Excess Plan Amended and Restated as of July 1, 1999
WHEREAS, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Corporation") has adopted and currently sponsors the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Excess Plan, as amended and restated effective July 1, 1999 and subsequently amended (the "Excess Plan"); and
WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Corporation's Board of Directors has sole discretionary authority pursuant to Section 8.1 of the Excess Plan for the operation, interpretation and administration of the Excess Plan and is authorized and empowered pursuant to Section 9.8 to amend the Excess Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee pursuant to paragraph 8.1.5 of the Excess Plan has delegated authority to the Human Resources Director and other appropriate officers and to the Benefits Plan Committee and the Deferral Plan Committee, as applicable, or their delegates to take actions to adopt and implement certain amendments approved by the Compensation Committee on November 7, 2005, as well as other amendments that they may deem appropriate, without further authorization of the Compensation Committee except for any matters which counsel to the Corporation believes will have a material financial impact on SunTrust; and
WHEREAS, the undersigned is a Senior Vice President of the Corporation and a member of the Benefits Department and also a member of both the Benefits Plan Committee and the Deferral Plan Committee.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED That Amendment Number Four to the Excess Plan, as set forth in the attached Exhibit 1, is adopted effective January 1, 2006.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Amendment Number Four to the Excess Plan on this 30th day of December 2005.
Exhibit 1
AMENDMENT NUMBER FOUR TO THE SUNTRUST BANKS, INC. 401(k) EXCESS PLAN AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1999
The SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Excess Plan, as amended and restated effective July 1, 1999, and subsequently amended (the "Excess Plan"), is further amended as set forth below:


