FILE:STI/STI-8K-20070911110135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Representatives of SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") are scheduled to make a presentation at the Lehman Brothers Financial Services Conference in New York on Tuesday, September 11, 2007 at approximately 4:30 PM Eastern Time. James M. Wells III, President and Chief Executive Officer and Mark A. Chancy, Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of SunTrust Banks, Inc. will make SunTrust's presentation. A copy of the slide package to be used by the Registrant at this conference is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. Such slide package will also be available on the Registrant's web site at immediately before the presentation begins. Information contained on the Registrant's website is expressly not incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K.
www.suntrust.com
The information in the preceding paragraphs, as well as Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference into another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the slide package speaks as of the date thereof and the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update said information in the future. In addition, the Registrant disclaims any inference regarding the materiality of such information which otherwise may arise as a result of its furnishing such information under Item 7.01 of this report on Form 8-K.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
At slide 18 of exhibit 99.1, which is described in Item 7.01 above, the Company makes the following statement about the estimated impact in the third quarter of 2007 of marking-to-market certain financial instruments and investments required by fair value accounting: "Current indications are that the negative marks from the loan warehouse and trading assets, offset by the positive mark on the debt portfolio, would have an estimated ($0.20) impact on 3Q 2007 EPS; the actual impact will not be known until the third quarter is completed."
The foregoing statement is a forward-looking statement and should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, notes and other information contained in the Company's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007 and Current Reports on Form 8-K. It is based upon the current beliefs and expectations of SunTrust's management and on information currently available to management. The forward-looking statement is intended to be subject to the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statement speaks as of the date hereof, and SunTrust does not assume any obligation to update the statements made herein or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future events. Forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties. Investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on such statement. Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Company's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and in the Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's internet site (http://www.sec.gov). Those factors include: changes in general business or economic conditions, including customers' ability to repay debt obligations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; our trading assets and financial instruments carried at fair value expose the Company to certain market risks; changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the values of assets and obligations, costs of capital, or liquidity; the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings; significant changes in securities markets or markets for residential or commercial real estate could harm our revenues and profitability; customers could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding;
customers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income; we have businesses other than banking, which subjects us to a variety of risks; hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business; negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues; we rely on other companies for key components of our business infrastructure; we rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations; we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties; regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect our business, revenues, and profit margins; competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing profit margins; future legislation could harm our competitive position; maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services; our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries accounts for most of our revenues and could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends; significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities; we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits; we depend on the expertise of key personnel without whom our operations may suffer; we may be unable to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy; our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report financial condition and results of operations, and may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain; our stock price can be volatile; changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition; our disclosure controls and procedures may fail to prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud; and weakness in residential property values and mortgage loan markets could adversely affect us; and we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 



