FILE:STI/STI-8K-20070515075451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Representatives of SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") are scheduled to make a presentation at the 2007 UBS Global Financial Services Conference on Tuesday, May 15, 2007 at approximately 11:40 AM Eastern Time. James M. Wells III, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mark A. Chancy, Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of SunTrust Banks, Inc. will make SunTrust's presentation. A copy of the slide package to be used by the Registrant at this conference is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. Such slide package will also be available on the Registrant's web site at www.suntrust.com. Information contained on the Registrant's website is expressly not incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Representatives of the Registrant are scheduled to make a presentation at the Lehman Brothers Financial Services Conference in London on Thursday, May 17, 2007 at approximately 9:40 AM Eastern Time. Mark A. Chancy, Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of SunTrust Banks, Inc. is expected to make SunTrust's presentation. A copy of the slide package to be used by the Registrant at this conference is substantially the same as that to be used at the UBS conference, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in the preceding paragraphs, as well as Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference into another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the slide package speaks as of the date thereof and the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update said information in the future. In addition, the Registrant disclaims any inference regarding the materiality of such information which otherwise may arise as a result of its furnishing such information under Item 7.01 of this report on Form 8-K.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 15, 2007, the Registrant issued a news release announcing a series of initiatives representing an acceleration and expansion of initiatives to enhance shareholder value in three key categories: efficiency and productivity, SunTrust's ownership of Coca-Cola common stock, and capital optimization/balance sheet management. A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


Exhibit 99.2
News
 
For Immediate Release
May 15, 2007
ATLANTA  SunTrust Banks, Inc. (NYSE: STI) announced today a series of initiatives representing an acceleration and expansion of the Company's increasingly intensive drive to enhance shareholder value. These initiatives focus on three key categories: efficiency and productivity, SunTrust's ownership of Coca-Cola common stock and capital optimization/balance sheet management.
"Today's announcement is consistent with our disciplined execution of a comprehensive program to deliver shareholder value. It also reflects the pace we believe appropriate in today's challenging environment for banks and in light of our own commitment to fully capitalize on the opportunities afforded by SunTrust's business mix, competitive strengths and high-growth geographic footprint," said James M. Wells III, President and Chief Executive Officer of SunTrust. Mr. Wells became SunTrust CEO in January 2007.
"With the full support of our board of directors, the dedication of our management team, and the proven execution capabilities of our employees, the acceleration we are announcing today, along with our ongoing performance focus, provides a powerful platform for improved results and higher growth," Mr. Wells added. The initiatives announced today include:
 
As a result of these expanded E
2
opportunities, the Company now expects the annual gross cost savings during the full year of 2009 to total approximately $530 million. The original estimate, which was based on cost savings to be achieved by the end of that year, was $400 million. The new, higher total reflects an additional $205 million in cost savings expected to be achieved during 2009. The original estimate was $325 million. In addition, the Company has revised its 2007 estimated cost savings to $181 million, an increase of $46 million from its original plan.
The E
2
initiative involves efficiency and productivity opportunities related to five areas: corporate real estate, supplier management, offshoring and outsourcing, process re-engineering and a structured organizational review. SunTrust said the additional expense reductions would come primarily from the corporate real estate, process re-engineering and organizational review components of E
2
.
 
With respect to the sale of Coca-Cola stock, Mr. Wells noted, "this action was taken after extensive discussion by our Board about the best way to maximize the value of this long-held asset. Our decisions with respect to Coca-Cola stock, along with the other initiatives announced today, are consistent with our focus on enhancing shareholder value and the efficiency of our overall capital structure. We continue to have great respect for The Coca-Cola Company and value the historical, and future, business relationship of our two Atlanta-based companies."
 
 
Mr. Wells and SunTrust's Chief Financial Officer, Mark A. Chancy, will provide detail on these initiatives and their anticipated impact on the Company's performance in a presentation at the UBS Global Financial Services Conference today in New York at 11:40 ET. A copy of the conference slides is available on SunTrust's web site at www.suntrust.com and may be accessed by clicking on the link, "Webcasts and Presentations," located under the "Investor Relations" pages. "Investor Relations" pages may also be accessed from SunTrust's home page via the link, "Investor Relations". Interested individuals can listen to the live webcast of the presentation which will begin at approximately 11:40 a.m. at the same website. The webcast of the presentation will be archived at the same website later that afternoon and will be available for 30 days following the event. The webcast link will be available at least fifteen minutes before the webcast.
About SunTrust Banks, Inc.
SunTrust Banks, Inc., headquartered in Atlanta, is one of the nation's largest banking organizations, serving a broad range of consumer, commercial, corporate and institutional clients. As of March 31, 2007 SunTrust had total assets of $186.4 billion and total deposits of $123.4 billion. The Company operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high- growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states and a full array of technology-based, 24-hour delivery channels. The Company also serves customers in selected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit, trust and investment services. Through various subsidiaries the Company provides credit cards, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage, equipment leasing and capital markets services. SunTrust's Internet address is
http://www.suntrust.com
 


