FILE:STI/STI-8K-20080215083157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) L. Phillip Humann, Chairman of the Board, announced his intention to retire from our Board of Directors following the expiration of his current term as director. Mr. Humann's term will expire immediately following the annual meeting of SunTrust shareholders, which will be held on April 29, 2008.
(e) On February 12, 2008, the Board of Directors amended the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan (the "Plan"). Except for certain amendments which require shareholder approval to become effective, the amendments were effective on February 12, 2008.
Most of the amendments address technical matters, such as how certain types of grants affect the number of shares which remain available for grant under the Plan, and certain conditions required of different types of grants. The Board amended Section 3.2, "Source of Shares," to exclude stock-settled stock appreciation right shares tendered in payment of the exercise price of an award from becoming available for future issuance. Similarly, the Plan now requires SunTrust to reduce the number of shares available for grant by the gross number of stock appreciation rights granted, without regard to the number of shares of stock issued or delivered in connection with such exercise or settlement. The Board amended Section 7.4(a), "Option Price," to expand and tighten the existing restriction on stock option re-pricings to meet enhanced corporate governance guidelines. The Board amended Section 7.6, "Non-transferability," to expand and tighten existing restrictions on transfers of stock options to make clear that in no case may an employee transfer a stock option for value. The Board amended Section 4(b), "Stock Appreciation Rights," to require a maximum term of 10 years for stock appreciation rights, consistent with the maximum term for stock options. Finally, as amended, the Plan provides default minimum vesting provisions of three years for time-based awards and one year for performance-based awards, except in certain situations where the Compensation Committee determines that a shorter period of service better serves the interests of SunTrust.
The amendments also (1) increase the total number of shares available for grant under the plan by 5 million shares, from 14 million shares to 19 million shares, and (2) correspondingly increase the number of shares that may be granted in the form of restricted stock or restricted stock units by 5 million shares, from 2.8 million to 7.8 million shares. Both of these amendments are subject to shareholder approval and will not become effective unless and until approved by SunTrust's shareholders. SunTrust intends to present the amendments for approval at its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on April 29, 2008.
 
On February 15, 2008, SunTrust Banks, Inc. issued a news release. A copy of this news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference.
The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference into another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
This document is a restatement of the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan as approved by shareholders on April 20, 2004 that incorporates amendments adopted by the Board of Directors through February 12, 2008. As noted in this document, some of the amendments are subject to the approval of the shareholders at the annual meeting to be held in April 2008.
SECTION 1. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE
The name of this Plan is the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan. The purpose of this Plan is to promote the interests of SunTrust and its Subsidiaries through grants to Employees and Directors of Options to purchase Stock, grants of Stock Appreciation Rights and grants of Restricted Stock and Stock Units in order (1) to attract and retain Employees and Directors, (2) to provide an additional incentive to each Employee and Director to work to increase the value of Stock and (3) to provide each Employee and Director with a stake in the future of SunTrust which corresponds to the stake of each of SunTrust's shareholders.
SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS
Each term set forth in this Section 2 shall have the meaning set forth opposite such term for purposes of this Plan and, for purposes of such definitions, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.
2.1.  means the Board of Directors of SunTrust.
Board
2.2.  means a change in control of SunTrust of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act as in effect at the time of such "change in control", provided that such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as (i) any "person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act), is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, of securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power for election of directors of the then outstanding securities of SunTrust or any successor of SunTrust; (ii) during any period of two consecutive years or less, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board cease, for any reason, to constitute at least a majority of the Board, unless the election or nomination for election of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period; (iii) the shareholders of SunTrust approve any reorganization, merger, consolidation or share exchange as a result of which the common stock of SunTrust shall be changed, converted or exchanged into or for securities of another corporation (other than a merger with a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunTrust) or any dissolution or liquidation of SunTrust or any sale or the disposition of 50% or more of the assets or business of SunTrust; or (iv) the shareholders of SunTrust approve any reorganization, merger, consolidation or share exchange unless (A) the persons who were the beneficial owners of the outstanding shares of the common stock of SunTrust immediately before the consummation of such transaction beneficially own more than 65% of the outstanding shares of the common stock of the successor or survivor corporation in such transaction immediately following the consummation of such transaction and (B) the number of shares of the common stock of such successor or survivor corporation beneficially owned by the persons described in Section 2.2(iv)(A) immediately following the consummation of such transaction is beneficially owned by each such person in substantially the same proportion that each such person had beneficially owned shares of SunTrust common stock immediately before the consummation of such transaction, provided (C) the percentage described in Section 2.2(iv)(A) of the beneficially owned shares of the successor or survivor corporation and the number described in Section 2.2(iv)(B) of the beneficially owned shares of the successor or survivor corporation shall be determined exclusively by reference to the shares of the successor or survivor corporation which result from the beneficial ownership of shares of common stock of SunTrust by the persons described in Section 2.2(iv)(A) immediately before the consummation of such transaction.
Change in Control
2.3.  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
2.4.  means a Committee of the Board to which the responsibility to administer this Plan is delegated by the Board and which shall consist of at least two members of the Board, each of whom shall be a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act and each of whom shall be (or be treated as) an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Committee
 
2.5.  means an Employee whom the Committee on the date he or she is granted an Option, an SAR, Restricted Stock or Stock Units deems likely to be a "covered employee" (within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code) as of any date on or after the date of such grant.
Covered Employee
2.6.  means a member of the Board who is not an employee of SunTrust or any Subsidiary or Parent Corporation.
Director
2.7.  means a select employee of SunTrust or any Subsidiary whose performance is, in the judgment of the Committee acting in its absolute discretion, directly or indirectly material to the success of SunTrust or such Subsidiary and who is not a Ten Percent Shareholder.
Employee
2.8.  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
2.9  means (1) the closing price on any date for a share of Stock as reported by under the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions quotation system (or under any successor quotation system) or, if Stock is no longer traded on the New York Stock Exchange, under the quotation system under which such closing price is reported or, if no longer reports such closing price, such closing price as reported by a newspaper or trade journal selected by the Committee or, if no such closing price is available on such date, (2) such closing price as so reported in accordance with Section 2.9(1) for the immediately preceding business day, or, if no newspaper or trade journal reports such closing price, (3) the price which the Committee acting in good faith determines through any reasonable valuation method that a share of Stock might change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither being under any compulsion to buy or to sell and both having reasonable knowledge of the relevant facts. If the closing price for a share of Stock is misquoted or omitted by the applicable publication, the Committee shall directly solicit the information from officials of the stock exchange or from other informed independent market sources.
Fair Market Value
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
2.10.  means an Option granted under Section 7 of this Plan to purchase Stock which is evidenced by an Option Agreement which provides that the Option is intended to satisfy the requirements for an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code.
ISO
2.11.  means an Option granted under Section 7 of this Plan to purchase Stock which is evidenced by an Option Agreement which provides that the Option shall not be treated as an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code.
NQO
2.12.  means an ISO or a NQO.
Option
2.13.  means the written agreement or instrument which sets forth the terms of an Option granted to an Employee or Director under this Plan.
Option Agreement
2.14.  means the price which shall be paid to purchase one share of Stock upon the exercise of an Option granted under this Plan.
Option Price
2.15.  means any corporation which is a parent corporation (within the meaning of Section 424(e) of the Code) of SunTrust.
Parent Corporation
2.16.  means this SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan
2.17.  means the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2000 Stock Plan as in effect on the effective date of this Plan and as thereafter amended.
Predecessor Plan
2.18.  means Stock granted to an Employee or Director pursuant to Section 8 of this Plan.
Restricted Stock
2.19.  means the exemption under Rule 16b-3 to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or any successor to such rule.
Rule 16b-3
 
2.20.  means the One Dollar ($1.00) par value common stock of SunTrust.
Stock
2.21.  means the written agreement or instrument which sets forth the terms of a Restricted Stock grant or Stock Unit grant to an Employee or Director under this Plan.
Stock Agreement
2.22.  means a right which is granted pursuant to the terms of Section 7 of this Plan to the appreciation in the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock in excess of the SAR Share Value for such a share.
Stock Appreciation Right or SAR
2.23.  means the written agreement or instrument which sets forth the terms of a SAR granted to an Employee under this Plan.
SAR Agreement
2.24.  means the figure which is set forth in each SAR Agreement and which is no less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date the related SAR is granted.
SAR Share Value
2.25.  means a contractual right granted to an Employee or Director pursuant to Section 8 to receive a cash payment based on the Fair Market Value of the number of shares of Stock described in such grant.
Stock Unit
2.26.  means any corporation which is a subsidiary corporation (within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code) of SunTrust except a corporation which has subsidiary corporation status under Section 424(f) of the Code exclusively as a result of SunTrust or a SunTrust subsidiary holding stock in such corporation as a fiduciary with respect to any trust, estate, conservatorship, guardianship or agency.
Subsidiary
2.27.  means SunTrust Banks, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and any successor to such corporation.
SunTrust
2.28.  means a person who owns (after taking into account the attribution rules of Section 424(d) of the Code) more than ten percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of either SunTrust, a Subsidiary or a Parent Corporation.
Ten Percent Shareholder
SECTION 3. SHARES RESERVED UNDER PLAN
3.1. There shall (subject to Section 11) be reserved for issuance under this Plan (a) 19,000,000 shares of Stock plus (b) the number of shares of Stock which would remain available for issuance under the Predecessor Plan if shares were issued on the effective date of this Plan sufficient to satisfy all grants then outstanding under the Predecessor Plan plus (c) the number of shares of Stock subject to grants under the Predecessor Plan which are outstanding on the effective date of this Plan and which are forfeited or expire on or after such effective date in accordance with the terms of such grants; provided, however, only the shares of Stock described in Section 3.1(a) shall be issued in connection with the exercise of ISOs and nothing in this Plan shall affect any grants under the Predecessor Plan which are outstanding on the effective date of this Plan until such time, if any, that any shares of Stock subject to such grants are forfeited or grants respecting any shares of Stock expire on or after such effective date in accordance with the terms of such grants.
Shares.
3.2. The shares of Stock described in Section 3.1 shall be reserved to the extent that SunTrust deems appropriate from authorized but unissued shares of Stock and from shares of Stock which have been reacquired by SunTrust. Furthermore, any shares of Stock issued pursuant to a Restricted Stock grant which are forfeited thereafter shall again become available for issuance under this Plan, but (a) any shares of Stock used to satisfy a withholding obligation under Section 14.4 shall not again become available under Section 3.1 for issuance under this Plan, (b) any shares of Stock which are tendered to SunTrust to pay the Option Price of an Option or which are tendered to SunTrust in satisfaction of any condition to a grant of Restricted Stock shall not become available under Section 3.1 for issuance under this Plan and (c) the number of shares of Stock available for issuance under Section 3.1 shall be reduced on a share-by-share basis for each SAR granted; provided, however, if an SAR is forfeited, the related share of Stock shall again become available for issuance under this Plan.
Source of Shares.
 
3.3. The proceeds which SunTrust receives from the sale of any shares of Stock under this Plan shall be used for general corporate purposes and shall be added to the general funds of SunTrust.
Use of Proceeds.
3.4. No grants shall be made under the Predecessor Plan on or after the date this Plan becomes effective.
Predecessor Plan.
SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE
This Plan became effective on April 20, 2004, the date the shareholders of SunTrust (acting at a duly called meeting of such shareholders) approved the adoption of this Plan. The Board of Directors has subsequently amended this Plan and amendments to Sections 3.1 and 8.1(b) are not effective until approved by the shareholders of SunTrust at the 2008 annual meeting.
SECTION 5. COMMITTEE
This Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Subject to the provisions of this Plan (including Sections 11, 12, 13 and 14), the Committee shall have the power, authority, and sole and exclusive discretion to construe, interpret and administer this Plan, including without limitation, the power and authority to make factual determinations relating to Plan grants and correct mistakes in Option, SAR or Stock Agreements, and to take such other action in the administration and operation of this Plan as the Committee deems equitable under the circumstances. Such actions of the Committee shall be binding on SunTrust, on each affected Employee and Director and on each other person directly or indirectly affected by such action. The Committee may delegate such powers and duties, whether ministerial or discretionary, as the Committee may deem appropriate, including, but not limited to, authorizing the Committee's delegate to execute agreements evidencing the grant of Options, SARs, Restricted Stock and Stock Units or other documents on the Committee's behalf.
SECTION 6. ELIGIBILITY
Employees shall be eligible for the grant of Options, SARs, Restricted Stock and Stock Units under this Plan. Directors shall be eligible for the grant of Options, Restricted Stock and Stock Units under this Plan.
SECTION 7. OPTIONS AND SARs
7.1. The Committee acting in its absolute discretion shall have the right to grant Options to Employees and Directors under this Plan from time to time to purchase shares of Stock, and Options may be granted for any reason the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances, including in lieu of compensation otherwise payable in cash. Each grant of an Option shall be evidenced by an Option Agreement, and each Option Agreement shall set forth whether the Option is an ISO or a NQO and shall set forth such other terms and conditions of such grant as the Committee acting in its absolute discretion deems consistent with the terms of this Plan. All Options granted to Directors shall be NQO. If the exercise of an Option is subject to the satisfaction of a minimum service and a minimum performance requirement, the minimum service requirement shall be at least 1 year and, if the exercise of an Option is subject to the satisfaction of only a minimum service requirement, the minimum service requirement shall be at least 3 years unless the Committee in either case determines that a shorter period of service (or no period of service) better serves the interests of SunTrust.
Options.
7.2. The aggregate Fair Market Value of ISOs granted to an Employee under this Plan and incentive stock options granted to such Employee under any other stock option plan adopted by SunTrust, a Subsidiary or a Parent Corporation which first become exercisable in any calendar year (which begins on or after January 1, 2004) shall not exceed $100,000. Such Fair Market Value figure shall be determined by the Committee on the date the ISO or other incentive stock option is granted, and the Committee shall interpret and administer the limitation set forth in this Section 7.2 in accordance with Section 422(d) of the Code.
$100,000 Limit.
7.3.
Share Limitations.
(a) . An Employee may not be granted in any calendar year Options, or SARs, or one or more Options and SARs in any combination which in the aggregate relate to more than 250,000 shares of Stock.
Employees
(b) The Directors as a group may not over the life of this Plan be issued in the aggregate more than 500,000 nonforfeitable shares of Stock in connection with the exercise of Options and Restricted Stock grants.
Directors.
 
7.4.
Option Price and Exercise Period.
(a) . The Option Price for each share of Stock subject to an Option shall be no less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date the Option is granted. The Option Price shall be payable in full upon the exercise of any Option. Except in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of this Plan, the Committee shall not, absent the approval of SunTrust's shareholders, take any action, whether through amendment, cancellation, replacement grants, exchanges or any other means, to directly or indirectly reduce the Option Price of any outstanding Option or to make a tender offer for any Option if the Option Price for such Option on the effective date of such tender offer exceeds the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock subject to such Option.
Option Price
(b) Each Option granted under this Plan shall be exercisable in whole or in part at such time or times as set forth in the related Option Agreement, but no Option Agreement shall make an Option exercisable before the date such Option is granted or on or after the date which is the tenth anniversary of the date such Option is granted. In the discretion of the Committee, an Option Agreement may provide for the exercise of an Option after the employment of an Employee or the status of an individual as a Director has terminated for any reason whatsoever, including death or disability.
Exercise Period.
7.5.
Method of Exercise.
(a) . An Option may be exercised as provided in this Section 7.5 pursuant to procedures (including, without limitation, procedures restricting the frequency or method of exercise) as shall be established by the Committee or its delegate from time to time for the exercise of Options.
Committee Rules
(b) An Option shall be exercised by delivering to the Committee or its delegate during the period in which such Option is exercisable, (1) written notice of exercise in a form acceptable to the Committee indicating the specific number of shares of Stock subject to the Option which are being exercised and (2) payment in full of the Option Price for such specific number of shares. An Option Agreement, at the discretion of the Committee, may provide for the payment of the Option Price by any of the following means:
Notice and Payment.
(1) in cash, electronic funds transfer or a check acceptable to the Committee;
(2) in Stock which has been held by the Employee or Director for a period acceptable to the Committee and which Stock is otherwise acceptable to the Committee, provided that the Committee may impose whatever restrictions it deems necessary or desirable with respect to such method of payment;
(3) through a broker-facilitated cashless exercise procedure acceptable to the Committee; or
(4) in any combination of the methods described in this Section 7.5(b) which is acceptable to the Committee.
Any payment made in Stock shall be treated as equal to the Fair Market Value of such Stock on the date the properly endorsed stock certificate for such Stock is delivered to the Committee or, if payment is effected through a certification of ownership of Stock in lieu of a stock certificate, on the date the Option is exercised.
(c) The Committee may from time to time establish procedures for restricting the exercise of Options on any given date as the result of excessive volume of exercise requests or any other problem in the established system for processing Option exercise requests or for any other reason the Committee or its delegate deems appropriate or necessary.
Restrictions.
7.6. Except to the extent the Committee deems permissible under Section 422(b) of the Code and Rule 16b-3 and consistent with the best interests of SunTrust, neither an Option granted under this Plan nor any related surrender rights nor any SAR shall be transferable by an Employee or a Director other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any grant by the Committee of a request by an Employee or a Director for any transfer (other than a transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution) shall be conditioned on the transfer not being made for value or consideration. Any such Option grant and surrender
Nontransferability.
 
rights under this Plan and any SAR granted under this Plan shall be exercisable during an Employee's or a Director's lifetime, as the case may be, only by (subject to the first sentence in this Section 7.6) the Employee or the Director, provided that in the event an Employee or a Director is incapacitated and unable to exercise such Employee's or Director's Option or SAR, such Employee's or Director's legal guardian or legal representative whom the Committee (or its delegate) deems appropriate based on all applicable facts and circumstances presented to the Committee (or its delegate) may exercise such Employee's or such Director's Option or SAR, in accordance with the provisions of this Plan and the applicable Option Agreement or SAR Agreement. The person or persons to whom an Option or a SAR is transferred by will or by the laws of descent and distribution (or pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 7.6) thereafter shall be treated as the Employee or the Director under this Plan.
7.7.
SARs and Surrender Rights.
(a) .
SARs and SAR Share Value
(1) The Committee acting in its absolute discretion may grant an Employee a SAR which will give the Employee the right to the appreciation in one, or more than one, share of Stock, and any such appreciation shall be measured from the related SAR Share Value. The Committee shall have the right to make any such grant subject to such additional terms as the Committee deems appropriate, and such terms shall be set forth in the related SAR Agreement.
(2) Each SAR granted under this Plan shall be exercisable in whole or in part at such time or times as set forth in the related SAR Agreement, but no SAR Agreement shall make an SAR exercisable before the date such SAR is granted or on or after the date which is the tenth anniversary of the date such SAR is granted. In the discretion of the Committee, an SAR Agreement may provide for the exercise of an SAR after the employment of an Employee or the status of an individual as a Director has terminated for any reason whatsoever, including death or disability.
(3) Except in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of this Plan, the Committee shall not, absent the approval of SunTrust's shareholders, take any action, whether through amendment, cancellation, replacement grants, exchanges or any other means, to directly or indirectly reduce the SAR Share Value of any outstanding SAR or to make a tender offer for any SAR if the SAR Share Value for such SAR on the effective date of such tender offer exceeds the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock subject to such SAR.
(4) If the exercise of an SAR is subject to the satisfaction of a minimum service and a minimum performance requirement, the minimum service requirement shall be at least 1 year and, if the exercise of an SAR is subject to the satisfaction of only a minimum service requirement, the minimum service requirement shall be at least 3 years unless the Committee in either case determines that a shorter period of service (or no period of service) better serves the interests of SunTrust.
(b) The Committee acting in its absolute discretion also may incorporate a provision in an Option Agreement to give an Employee the right to surrender his or her Option in whole or in part in lieu of the exercise (in whole or in part) of that Option to purchase Stock on any date that
Option Surrender Rights.
(1) the Fair Market Value of the Stock subject to such Option exceeds the Option Price for such Stock, and
(2) the Option to purchase such Stock is otherwise exercisable.
(c) The exercise of a SAR or a surrender right in an Option shall be effected by the delivery of the related SAR Agreement or Option Agreement to the Committee (or to its delegate) together with a statement signed by the Employee which specifies the number of shares of Stock as to which the Employee, as appropriate, exercises his or her SAR or exercises his or her right to surrender his or her Option and (at the Employee's option) how he or she desires payment to be made with respect to such shares.
Procedure.
(d) An Employee who exercises his or her SAR or right to surrender his or her Option shall (to the extent consistent with an exemption under Rule 16b-3) receive a payment in cash or in Stock, or in a combination of cash and Stock, equal in amount on the date such exercise is effected to (i) the number of shares of Stock with respect to which, as applicable, the SAR or
Payment.
 
the surrender right is exercised times (ii) the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on such date over, as applicable, the SAR Share Value for a share of Stock subject to the SAR or the Option Price for a share of Stock subject to an Option. The Committee acting in its absolute discretion shall determine the form and timing of such payment, and the Committee shall have the right (1) to take into account whatever factors the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances, including any written request made by the Employee and delivered to the Committee (or to its delegate) and (2) to forfeit an Employee's right to payment of cash in lieu of a fractional share of Stock if the Committee deems such forfeiture necessary in order for the surrender of his or her Option under this Section 7.7 to come within an exemption under Rule 16b-3. Any cash payment under this Section 7.7 shall be made from SunTrust's general assets, and an Employee shall be no more than a general and unsecured creditor of SunTrust with respect to such payment.
(e) Each SAR Agreement and each Option Agreement which incorporates a provision to allow an Employee to surrender his or her Option shall incorporate such additional restrictions on the exercise of such SAR or surrender right as the Committee deems necessary to satisfy the conditions to the exemption under Rule 16b-3.
Restrictions.
SECTION 8. RESTRICTED STOCK AND STOCK UNITS
8.1.
Committee Action.
(a) . The Committee acting in its absolute discretion shall have the right to grant Restricted Stock and Stock Units to Employees and Directors under this Plan from time to time.
General
(b) . Subject to the rules set forth in Section 3 and Section 7.3(b), no more than 7,800,000 nonforfeitable shares of Stock shall be issued pursuant to Restricted Stock grants, and no cash payments shall be made with respect to more than 7,800,000 shares of Stock pursuant to Stock Unit grants. In addition, no Restricted Stock grant may be made to an Employee in any calendar year with respect to more than 100,000 shares of Restricted Stock, and the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock described in any Stock Unit grant to any Employee shall not exceed $1,000,000 on the date as of which the grant is made. Each Restricted Stock grant and each Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by a Stock Agreement, and each Stock Agreement shall set forth the conditions, if any, which will need to be timely satisfied before the grant will be effective and the conditions, if any, under which the Employee's or Director's interest in the related Stock or cash payment will be forfeited; provided, if the vesting of a Restricted Stock grant or Stock Unit grant is subject to the satisfaction of a minimum service and a minimum performance requirement, the minimum service requirement shall be at least 1 year and, if the vesting of a Restricted Stock grant or a Stock Unit grant is subject to the satisfaction of only a minimum service requirement, the minimum service requirement shall be at least 3 years unless the Committee in either case determines that a shorter period of service (or no period of service) better serves the interests of SunTrust.
Limitations
8.2. .
Conditions
(a) . The Committee acting in its absolute discretion may make the issuance of Restricted Stock to an Employee or Director subject to the satisfaction of one, or more than one, objective employment, performance or other grant condition (which may or may not include performance criteria described in Section 8.2(c)) which the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances, and the related Stock Agreement shall set forth each such condition and the deadline for satisfying each such condition.
Issuance Conditions for Restricted Stock
(b) . The Committee may make Restricted Stock issued to an Employee or Director or the cash otherwise payable under any Stock Unit grant subject to one, or more than one, objective employment, performance or other forfeiture condition (which may or may not include any performance goals described in Section 8.2(c)) which the Committee acting in its absolute discretion deems appropriate under the circumstances, and the related Stock Agreement shall set forth each such forfeiture condition and the deadline for satisfying each such forfeiture condition. An Employee's or Director's nonforfeitable interest in the shares of Stock issued pursuant to a Restricted Stock grant or the cash payment due under any Stock Unit grant shall depend on the extent to which each such condition is timely satisfied. Each share of Stock issued pursuant to a Restricted Stock grant shall again become available under Section 3 if such share is forfeited as a result of a failure to timely satisfy a forfeiture condition, in which event such share of Stock shall again become available under Section 3 as of the date of such failure. When a Stock certificate is issued for shares of Restricted Stock, such certificate shall be issued subject to (i) the conditions, if any, described in this Section 8.2(b) and Section 8.2(c) to, or for the benefit of, the Employee or Director and (ii) a stock power in favor of SunTrust in order for SunTrust to effect any forfeitures of such Restricted Stock called for under this Section 8.2(b).
Forfeiture Conditions for Restricted Stock and Stock Units
 
(c)
Performance Goals.
(1) A performance goal is described in this Section 8.2(c) if such goal relates to (i) SunTrust's return over capital costs or increases in return over capital costs, (ii) SunTrust's total earnings or the growth in such earnings, (iii) SunTrust's consolidated earnings or the growth in such earnings, (iv) SunTrust's earnings per share or the growth in such earnings, (v) SunTrust's net earnings or the growth in such earnings, (vi) SunTrust's earnings before interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization and other non-cash items or the growth in such earnings, (vii) SunTrust's earnings before interest and taxes or the growth in such earnings, (viii) SunTrust's consolidated net income or the growth in such income, (ix) the value of SunTrust's Stock or the growth in such value, (x) SunTrust's Stock price or the growth in such price, (xi) SunTrust's return on assets or the growth on such return, (xii) SunTrust's total shareholder return or the growth in such return, (xiii) SunTrust's expenses or the reduction of expenses, (xiv) SunTrust's sales growth, (xv) SunTrust's overhead ratios or changes in such ratios, (xvi) SunTrust's expense-to-sales ratios or the changes in such ratios, (xvii) SunTrust's economic value added or changes in such value added, or (xviii) such other financial performance measures deemed appropriate by the Committee. A performance goal described in this Section 8.2(c)(1) may be set in any manner determined by the Committee, including looking to achievement on an absolute or relative basis in relation to peer groups or indexes, and may relate to SunTrust as a whole or one or more operating units of SunTrust.
(2) When the Committee determines whether a performance goal has been satisfied for any period, the Committee may exclude any or all "extraordinary items" as determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and any other unusual or non-recurring items, including, without limitation, the charges or costs associated with restructurings of SunTrust, discontinued operations, and the cumulative effects of accounting changes. The Committee may also adjust any performance goal for a period as it deems equitable in recognition of unusual or non-recurring events affecting SunTrust, changes in applicable tax laws or accounting principles, or such other factors as the Committee may determine (including, without limitation, any adjustments that would result in SunTrust paying non-deductible compensation to an Employee).
(3) If the Committee determines that a performance goal has been satisfied and the satisfaction of such goal was intended to meet the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall certify that the goal has been satisfied in accordance with the requirements set forth under such section of the Code.
8.3.
Dividends and Voting Rights.
(a) . Each Stock Agreement which evidences a Restricted Stock grant shall state whether the Employee or Director shall have a right to receive any cash dividends which are paid after any shares of Restricted Stock are issued to him or to her and before the first day that the Employee's or Director's interest in such Stock is forfeited completely or becomes completely nonforfeitable. If such a Stock Agreement provides that an Employee or Director has no right to receive a cash dividend when paid, such agreement shall set forth the conditions, if any, under which the Employee or Director will be eligible to receive one, or more than one, payment in the future to compensate the Employee or Director for the fact that he or she had no right to receive any cash dividends on his or her Restricted Stock when such dividends were paid. If such a Stock Agreement calls for any such payments to be made, SunTrust shall make such payments from SunTrust's general assets, and the Employee or Director shall be no more than a general and unsecured creditor of SunTrust with respect to such payments. Unless otherwise set forth in the Stock Agreement which evidences a Stock Unit grant, if a cash dividend is paid on the shares of Stock described in a Stock Unit grant, such cash dividend shall be treated as reinvested in shares of Stock and shall increase the number of shares of Stock described in such Stock Unit grant.
Cash Dividends
(b) . If a Stock dividend is declared on a share of Restricted Stock, such Stock dividend shall be treated as part of the grant of the related Restricted Stock, and an Employee's or Director's interest in such Stock dividend shall be forfeited or shall become nonforfeitable at the same time as the Stock with respect to which the Stock dividend was paid is forfeited or becomes nonforfeitable. Unless otherwise set forth in the Stock Agreement which evidences a Stock Unit grant, if a Stock dividend is declared on any shares of Stock described in a Stock Unit grant, such dividend shall increase the number of shares of Stock described in such Stock Unit grant.
Stock Dividends
 
(c) If a dividend is paid on a share of Restricted Stock or on a share of Stock described in a Stock Unit grant other than in cash or Stock, the disposition of such dividend with respect to such Restricted Stock grant and the treatment of such dividend with respect to such Stock Unit grant shall be effected in accordance with such rules as the Committee shall adopt with respect to each such dividend.
Non-cash and Non-Stock Dividends.
(d) An Employee or Director shall have the right to vote shares of Restricted Stock which have been issued pursuant to Section 8.2(b) before his or her interest in such Stock has been forfeited or has become nonforfeitable.
Voting Rights.
(e) . No Restricted Stock grant and no shares issued pursuant to a Restricted Stock grant shall be transferable by an Employee or a Director other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution before an Employee's or Director's interest in such shares have become completely nonforfeitable, and no interests in a Stock Unit grant shall be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution except as otherwise provided in the related Stock Agreement.
Nontransferability
(f) . An Employee or a Director to whom a Stock Unit is granted shall be no more than a general and unsecured creditor of SunTrust with respect to any cash payment due under such grant.
Creditor Status
8.4 A share of Stock shall cease to be Restricted Stock at such time as an Employee's or Director's interest in such Stock becomes nonforfeitable under this Plan, and the certificate representing such share shall be reissued as soon as practicable thereafter without any further restrictions related to Section 8.2(b) or Section 8.3 and shall be transferred to the Employee or Director.
Satisfaction of Forfeiture Conditions.
SECTION 9. SECURITIES REGISTRATION
Each Option Agreement, SAR Agreement and Stock Agreement shall provide that, upon the receipt of shares of Stock as a result of the exercise of an Option (or any related surrender right) or a SAR or the satisfaction of the forfeiture conditions under a Stock Agreement for Restricted Stock, the Employee or Director shall, if so requested by SunTrust, hold such shares of Stock for investment and not with a view of resale or distribution to the public and, if so requested by SunTrust, shall deliver to SunTrust a written statement satisfactory to SunTrust to that effect. As for Stock issued pursuant to this Plan, SunTrust at its expense shall take such action as it deems necessary or appropriate to register the original issuance of such Stock to an Employee or Director under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under any other applicable securities laws or to qualify such Stock for an exemption under any such laws prior to the issuance of such Stock to an Employee or Director; however, SunTrust shall have no obligation whatsoever to take any such action in connection with the transfer, resale or other disposition of such Stock by an Employee.
SECTION 10. LIFE OF PLAN
No Option or SAR or Restricted Stock or Stock Unit shall be granted under this Plan on or after the earlier of
(1) the tenth anniversary of the date the Board adopts this Plan, in which event this Plan otherwise thereafter shall continue in effect until all outstanding Options (and any related surrender rights) and SARs have been exercised in full or no longer are exercisable and all Restricted Stock and Stock Unit grants under this Plan have been forfeited or the forfeiture conditions on the related Stock or cash payments have been satisfied in full, or
(2) the date on which all of the Stock reserved under Section 3 of this Plan has (as a result of the exercise of all Options (and any related surrender rights) and all SARs granted under this Plan and the satisfaction of the forfeiture conditions on Restricted Stock) been issued or no longer is available for use under this Plan and all cash payments due under any Stock Unit grants have been paid or forfeited, in which event this Plan also shall terminate on such date.
SECTION 11. ADJUSTMENT
11.1. The number, kind or class (or any combination thereof) of shares of Stock reserved under Section 3 of this Plan, the grant limitations described in Section 7.3 and Section 8.1 of this Plan, the number, kind or class (or any combination thereof) of shares of Stock subject to Options or SARs granted under this Plan and the Option Price of such Options and the SAR
Capital Structure.
 
Share Value of such SARs as well as the number, kind or class of shares of Stock subject to Restricted Stock grants and the number, kind or class of shares of Stock described in Stock Unit grants under this Plan shall be adjusted by the Board in an equitable manner to reflect any change in the capitalization of SunTrust, including, but not limited to, such changes as stock dividends or stock splits.
11.2. The Board as part of any corporate transaction described in Code Section 424(a) shall have the right to adjust (in any manner which the Board in its discretion deems consistent with Code Section 424(a)) the number, kind or class (or any combination thereof) of shares of Stock reserved under Section 3 of this Plan and the grant limitations described in Section 7.3 and Section 8.1 of this Plan. Furthermore, the Board as part of any corporate transaction described in Code Section 424(a) shall have the right to adjust (in any manner which the Board in its discretion deems consistent with Code Section 424(a)) the number, kind or class (or any combination thereof) of shares of Stock underlying any Restricted Stock and Stock Unit grants previously made under this Plan and any related grant conditions and forfeiture conditions, and the number, kind or class (or any combination thereof) of shares subject to Option and SAR grants previously made under this Plan and the related Option Price and SAR Share Value for each such Option and SAR, and, further, shall have the right (in any manner which the Board in its discretion deems consistent with Code Section 424(a) and without regard to the grant limitations described in Section 7.3 or Section 8.1 of this Plan) to make Restricted Stock, Stock Unit, Option and SAR grants to effect the assumption of, or the substitution for, restricted stock, stock unit, option and stock appreciation right grants previously made by any other corporation to the extent that such corporate transaction calls for such substitution or assumption of such restricted stock, stock unit, option or stock appreciation rights grants.
Mergers.
11.3. If any adjustment under this Section 11 would create a fractional share of Stock or a right to acquire a fractional share of Stock, such fractional share shall be disregarded and the number of shares of Stock reserved under this Plan and the number subject to any Options, SAR grants and Restricted Stock grants shall be the next lower number of shares of Stock, rounding all fractions downward. Any adjustment made under this Section 11 by the Board shall be conclusive and binding on all affected persons.
Fractional Shares.
SECTION 12. CHANGE IN CONTROL
If there is a Change in Control and the Board determines that no adequate provision has been made as part of such Change in Control for either the assumption of the Options, SARs, Restricted Stock and Stock Unit grants outstanding under this Plan or for the granting of comparable, substitute stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock and stock unit grants, (1) each outstanding Option and SAR at the direction and discretion of the Board (a) may (subject to such conditions, if any, as the Board deems appropriate under the circumstances) be cancelled unilaterally by SunTrust in exchange for the number of whole shares of Stock (and cash in lieu of a fractional share), if any, which each Employee would have received if on the date set by the Board he or she had exercised his or her SAR in full or if each Employee's and each Director's Option included a right to surrender his or her outstanding Option in full under Section 7.7 of this Plan and such Option had been surrendered in full or (b) may be cancelled unilaterally by SunTrust if the Option Price or SAR Share Value equals or exceeds the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on such date and (2) the conditions, if any, for the issuance of Restricted Stock and the conditions, if any, for making nonforfeitable all outstanding Restricted Stock grants and all Stock Unit grants may be deemed completely satisfied on the date set by the Board.
SECTION 13. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION
This Plan may be amended by the Board from time to time to the extent that the Board deems necessary or appropriate; provided, however, no such amendment shall be made absent the approval of the shareholders of SunTrust to the extent such approval is required under applicable law, Code Section 422, Rule 16b-3 or any applicable stock exchange rule. The Board also may suspend the granting of Options, SARs, Restricted Stock and Stock Units under this Plan at any time and may terminate this Plan at any time. The Board or the Committee shall have the right to modify, amend or cancel (retroactively or prospectively) any Option, SAR, Restricted Stock or Stock Unit granted before such suspension or termination if (1) the Employee or Director consents in writing to such modification, amendment or cancellation (except that in no case can Options be repriced either by cancellation and regrant or by lowering the exercise price of a previously granted award) or (2) there is a dissolution or liquidation of SunTrust or a transaction described in Section 11 or Section 12 of this Plan. Suspension or termination of the Plan shall not affect the Committee's ability to exercise the powers granted to it with respect to Options, SARs or surrender rights, Restricted Stock or Stock Units granted under this Plan prior to the date of such suspension or termination.
 
SECTION 14. MISCELLANEOUS
14.1. No Employee or Director shall have any rights as a shareholder of SunTrust as a result of the grant of an Option or a SAR under this Plan or his or her exercise of such Option or SAR pending the actual delivery of the Stock subject to such Option to such Employee or Director. Subject to Section 8.4, an Employee's or Director's rights as a shareholder in the shares of Stock related to a Restricted Stock grant which is effective shall be set forth in the related Stock Agreement.
Shareholder Rights.
14.2. The grant of an Option, SAR, Restricted Stock or Stock Unit to an Employee or a Director under this Plan shall not constitute a contract of employment or an agreement to continue his or her status as an Employee or a Director and shall not confer on an Employee or Director any rights in addition to those rights, if any, expressly set forth in the Option Agreement which evidences his or her Option, the SAR Agreement which evidences his or her SAR or the Stock Agreement related to his or her Restricted Stock or Stock Unit grant.
No Contract of Employment or Director Status.
14.3. . Shares of Stock acquired by an Employee under this Plan upon the exercise of an Option (or related surrender rights) or SAR or upon a grant of Restricted Stock becoming nonforfeitable may be subject to share retention guidelines established by SunTrust.
Share Retention Guidelines
14.4. The exercise of any Option or SAR granted under this Plan and the acceptance of a Restricted Stock or Stock Unit grant shall constitute an Employee's or Director's full and complete consent to whatever action the Committee deems necessary to satisfy the minimum federal and state tax withholding requirements, if any, which the Committee acting in its discretion deems applicable to such exercise or such Restricted Stock or Stock Unit grant. The Committee also shall have the right to provide in an Option Agreement, SAR Agreement or Stock Agreement that an Employee or Director may elect to satisfy minimum federal and state tax withholding requirements, if any, through a reduction in the number of shares of Stock actually transferred, or the cash payments to be made, to him or to her under this Plan, and any such election and any such reduction shall be effected so as to satisfy the conditions to the exemption under Rule 16b-3.
Withholding.
14.5
Construction.
(a) This Plan shall be construed under the laws of the State of Georgia (excluding its choice-of-law rules) to the extent not superseded by federal law.
Governing Law.
(b) In the event any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Plan, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Invalid Provisions.
(c) In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Plan and any Option Agreement, Stock Agreement or SAR Agreement, the terms of the Plan shall prevail.
Conflicts.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
February 15, 2008
ATLANTA  The Board of Directors of SunTrust Banks, Inc. (NYSE: STI) announced today that James M. Wells III, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2007, will assume the additional role and title of Chairman of the Board at the Company's annual meeting on April 29, 2008. Mr. Wells' assumption of this additional role is coincident with an announcement by L. Phillip Humann, Executive Chairman of SunTrust since January 2007, that he will relinquish that position in anticipation of his planned retirement from SunTrust in 2009 following a 40-year-career with the Company.
As Chairman, President and CEO, Mr. Wells, 61, will retain executive management responsibility for SunTrust's overall business operations and financial performance and continue to serve as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board.
"Today's announcement concludes a long-planned Chairman-level succession process that began with our smooth transition of CEO responsibilities to Jim Wells in January 2007," noted Mr. Humann.
Mr. Humann, 62, who served as SunTrust's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer for nine years prior to assuming the Executive Chairman position in January 2007, said he will remain with SunTrust in a one-year consulting capacity prior to his planned retirement from the Company in April 2009. He will retire from the SunTrust Board of Directors effective with the 2008 annual meeting.
"Over the past year, despite the unforeseen market dislocations and change in the credit cycle that affected our industry, we have successfully built upon the solid foundation that Phil Humann established: financial strength, strong competitive positions in high-growth markets and a well balanced business mix," said Mr. Wells. "I am pleased that for the next year we will be able to draw upon Phil's strong client and community relationships as we continue to pursue our growth strategies."
SunTrust Banks, Inc., headquartered in Atlanta, is one of the nation's largest banking organizations, serving a broad range of consumer, commercial, corporate and institutional clients. As of December 31, 2007, SunTrust had total assets of $179.6 billion and total deposits of $117.8 billion. The Company operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high-growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states and a full array of technology-based, 24-hour delivery channels. The Company also serves customers in selected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit, trust and investment services. Through various subsidiaries the Company provides mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage, equipment leasing and capital markets services. SunTrust's Internet address is suntrust.com.


