FILE:STI/STI-8K-20080129090203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") is scheduled to make a presentation at the 2008 Citigroup Financial Services Conference on Tuesday, January 29, 2008 at 10:30 AM Eastern Time. James M. Wells III, President and Chief Executive Officer, will make SunTrust's presentation. A copy of the slide package to be used by the Registrant at this conference is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. Such slide package will also be available on the Registrant's web site at www.suntrust.com. Information contained on the Registrant's website is expressly not incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference into another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the slide package speaks as of the date thereof and the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update said information in the future. In addition, the Registrant disclaims any inference regarding the materiality of such information which otherwise may arise as a result of its furnishing such information under Item 7.01 of this report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 



