FILE:STI/STI-8K-20080620150732.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
SunTrust Banks, Inc. issued a news release today which is attached at Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 News release dated June 20, 2008.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

For Immediate Release
June 20, 2008
ATLANTA  In response to recent market activity and commentary, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (NYSE: STI) today is reaffirming certain statements made in recent months:
SunTrust Banks, Inc., headquartered in Atlanta, is one of the nation's largest banking organizations, serving a broad range of consumer, commercial, corporate and institutional clients. As of March 31, 2008, SunTrust had total assets of $179.0 billion and total deposits of $116.2 billion. The Company operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high-growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states and a full array of technology-based, 24-hour delivery channels. The Company also serves customers in selected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit, trust and investment services. Through various subsidiaries the Company provides mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage, investment management, equipment leasing and capital markets services. SunTrust's Internet address is suntrust.com.
Important Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements. Statements that do not describe historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.  These statements often include the words "may," "could," "will," "should," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "initiatives," "targets," "potentially," "probably," "projects," "outlook" or similar expressions. In particular, statements of expected levels of charge-offs, expected levels of Tier 1 capital, expected dividends, and expectations regarding future stock issuances are forward looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on such statements. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause SunTrust's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include (1) general economic conditions where we do business; (2) the level of future losses, if any; and (3) our future level of capital.  Additional risk factors can be found in the Company's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in the Current Reports filed on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward looking statements in this news release are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of SunTrust's management and on information currently available to management, and speak as of the date hereof. SunTrust does not assume any obligation to update such statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements.


