FILE:STI/STI-8K-20090507193512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Material Contracts.
On May 6, 2009, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") entered into a letter agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta to augment the composition of its capital by increasing the common shareholders equity component of tier 1 capital by $2.16 billion. The Registrant also indicated its intention to provide information to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta no later than June 8, 2009 about how the Registrant intends to accomplish this augmentation. A copy of the Letter Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other.
On May 7, 2009, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") announced its response to the Federal Reserve's Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. A copy of the News Release announcing SunTrust's response to the Federal Reserve's Supervisory Capital Assessment Program is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. All information in the news release speak as of the date thereof and the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update said information in the future.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
May 6, 2009
 
Dennis P. Lockhart
President and Chief Executive Officer
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
1000 Peachtree Street, N.E.
Atlanta, GA 30309-4470
Dear Mr. Lockhart:
SunTrust agrees that it will augment the composition of its capital by increasing the common shareholders equity component of tier 1 capital by by no later than November 9, 2009.
$2.16 B
We understand that preferred shares that are mandatorily convertible under terms acceptable to you will count towards common shareholders equity, but only for purposes of this augmentation.
No later than June 8, 2009, we will provide you with information about how the company intends to accomplish this augmentation.
Sincerely,
/s/ James M. Wells III
JMW:lsd

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
May 7, 2009
ATLANTA  SunTrust Banks, Inc. (NYSE: STI) announced today that it has been advised by the Federal Reserve that, under the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) previously announced by the United States Treasury, SunTrust has Tier 1 capital well in excess of the amount required to be well-capitalized through the forecast period under both the baseline scenario and the more adverse-than-expected scenario prepared by the Treasury ("More Adverse").
While SunTrust is  and is projected to remain  well-capitalized, SunTrust said it has also been advised that based on the "More Adverse" future scenario it would need to adjust the composition of its Tier 1 capital resources to increase the common equity portion of Tier 1 capital by $2.2 billion. The additional common equity is necessary to maintain Tier 1 common capital at 4% of risk-weighted assets under the "More Adverse" scenario, as specified by a new regulatory standard that was introduced as part of the stress test process. SunTrust's Tier 1 common capital ratio was 5.8% at year-end, well in excess of the newly enacted 4% regulatory requirement.
James M. Wells III, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SunTrust, noted that, "We are not surprised that the stress test has confirmed that SunTrust is a well-capitalized institution and that we do not need to add to our total Tier 1 capital resources. This underscores our capacity to continue to execute our current strategies, including making sound loans to qualified borrowers, growing deposits, managing costs, and focusing on risk-mitigation in the current environment. Looking beyond the current recession, we are well positioned for the opportunities that will come with a resumption of economic growth."
As part of the process outlined by the Treasury, SunTrust will submit a formal capital plan. Alternatives include both internally and externally generated capital to increase the Tier 1 common capital level. The Company said it is confident that it can comply with the newly enacted regulatory requirement using internal and non-Governmental sources of capital. In addition, the Company said it intends to reduce government preferred equity, subject to regulatory approval.
"We believe we already have the capital resources we need to withstand expected, and even more severe, economic pressures. That said, we also have access to ample sources of additional capital to support our efforts to serve our clients and support our communities," Mr. Wells added. "We will evaluate multiple alternatives in working with our regulators to determine how best to realign our capital and comply with this new regulatory requirement."
SunTrust Banks, Inc., headquartered in Atlanta, is one of the nation's largest banking organizations, serving a broad range of consumer, commercial, corporate and institutional clients. As of March 31, 2009, SunTrust had total assets of $179.1 billion and total deposits of $119.0 billion. The Company operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high-growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic States and a full array of technology-based, 24-hour delivery channels. The Company also serves customers in selected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit, trust and investment services. Through various subsidiaries the Company provides mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage, investment management, equipment leasing and capital markets services. SunTrust's Internet address is suntrust.com.
Important Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain forward-looking statements. Statements regarding the availability of capital in the future and our ability to comply with the Federal Reserve's new Tier 1 Common Equity requirement are forward-looking statements. Also, any statement that does not describe historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, is a forward-looking statement. These statements often include the words "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "targets," "initiatives," "potentially," "probably," "projects," "outlook" or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as "may," "will," "should," "would," and "could." Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of management and on information currently available to management. Such statements speak as of the date hereof, and we do not assume any obligation to update the statements made herein or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future events.
Forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on such statements. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital or liquidity; our stock price can be volatile and current levels of market volatility are unprecedented, and these could impede our ability to increase our Tier 1 Common Equity; the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings; regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect our business, revenue, and profit margins; recently declining values of residential real estate, increases in unemployment, and the related effects on local economics may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results; deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us; and any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. Additional factors can be found at Item 1A of our annual report on Form 10-K, at Part II Item 1A of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and in our current reports on Form 8-K, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's internet site ().
http://www.sec.gov
 


