FILE:STI/STI-8K-20090617214137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Retirement of William R. Reed Jr. On June 17, 2009, William R. Reed, Jr., our Vice Chairman, informed us that he intends to retire effective August 31, 2009. In connection with Mr. Reeds retirement, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Company" or the "Registrant") and Mr. Reed have entered into two new agreements: an Independent Contractor Consulting Agreement and a Noncompete, Waiver and Release Agreement. Under the Independent Contractor Consulting Agreement, effective September 1, 2009, Mr. Reed will provide certain services related to the promotion of the business interests of the Company and its affiliates both at the corporate level and in particular in the Memphis, Tennessee market for two years. Mr. Reed will also serve on the local SunTrust board of advisors in Memphis, Tennessee. Mr. Reed also agrees to refrain from disclosing confidential information of the Company obtained during his consultancy, competing with the Company, and soliciting employees of the Company. In exchange, the Company will co mpensate him at the rate of $62,750 per quarter in arrears. Under Noncompete, Waiver and Release Agreement, effective September 1, 2009, Mr. Reed agrees to refrain from disclosing confidential information of the Company obtained during his employment, competing with the Company, and soliciting employees of the Company. Mr. Reed also waives any claims he may have against the Company. In exchange, the Company will pay him $100,000 on September 1, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
10.1 Independent Contractor Consulting Agreement entered into as of June 17, 2009 by and between SunTrust Banks, Inc. and William R. Reed, Jr. 10.2 Noncompete, Waiver and Release Agreement entered into as of June 17, 2009 by and between SunTrust Banks, Inc. and William R. Reed, Jr.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

This Independent Contractor Consulting Agreement (the "Agreement") by and between William R. Reed, Jr. ("Contractor") and SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust", and, together with Contractor, the "Parties") is entered into as of June 17, 2009.
Contractor shall be responsible for payment of all employment and income taxes, FICA, and all other employee-related payments required to be made by Contractor or on Contractor's behalf or on behalf of any of Contractor's employees or agents. SunTrust shall have no responsibility to make any such payment and shall not have any financial responsibility of any kind for Contractor or Contractor's employees except for the payment of fees as set forth in Paragraph 2 above.
Contractor further agrees that SunTrust will have no liability for (a) any work-related injuries incurred by Contractor or any of Contractor's employees or agents and (b) any loss or damage caused by Contractor or any of Contractor's employees or agents in the course of performing Services under this Agreement. Accordingly, Contractor shall indemnify, defend, and hold SunTrust harmless from any claims arising out of Contractor's performance of the Services.
Contractor shall not be entitled to participate in any vacation, medical or other benefits plan or any other entitlements available to active SunTrust employees, nor shall Contractor be entitled to any incentives for the Services provided hereunder. The Services shall not be deemed to be service under any employee benefit plan maintained by SunTrust and Contractor shall not accrue any benefit under any employee benefit plans maintained by SunTrust or an affiliate for services performed under this Agreement.
(a) . As used in this Agreement, the term "Trade Secrets" shall mean all secret, proprietary or confidential information regarding SunTrust or its activities that fits within the definition of "trade secrets" under the Georgia Trade Secrets Act. Nothing in this Agreement is intended, or shall be construed, to limit the protections of the Georgia Trade Secrets Act or any other applicable law protecting trade secrets or other confidential information. "Trade Secrets" shall not include information that has become generally available to the public by the act of one who has the right to disclose such information without violating any right or privilege of SunTrust. This definition shall not limit any definition of "trade secrets" or any equivalent term under the Georgia Trade Secrets Act or any other state, local or federal law.
Trade Secrets Defined
(b) As used in this Agreement, the term "Confidential Information" shall mean all information regarding SunTrust, SunTrust's activities or business, or SunTrust's clients that is not generally known to persons not employed by SunTrust, is not generally disclosed by SunTrust practice or authority to persons not employed by SunTrust, and is the subject of reasonable efforts to keep it confidential. Confidential Information shall include, but not be limited to current and future development and expansion or contraction plans of SunTrust and each line of business; sale/acquisition plans and contacts; compensation policies and practices; underwriting policies and practices; lending policies and practices, confidential personnel matters; pricing practices and policies; information concerning the legal affairs of SunTrust; and information concerning the financial affairs of SunTrust. "Confidential Information" shall not include information that has become generally available to the public by the act of one who has the right to disclose such information without violating any right or privilege of SunTrust. This definition shall not limit any definition of "confidential information" or any equivalent term under the Georgia Trade Secrets Act or any other state, local or federal law.
Confidential Information Defined.
(c) Contractor acknowledges that during the course of performing Contractor's duties and responsibilities under this Agreement, Contractor may obtain, have access to or be entrusted with Confidential Information concerning SunTrust and that the disclosure of such Confidential Information to competitors of SunTrust would be highly detrimental to the interests of SunTrust and cause SunTrust irreparable harm. Contractor further acknowledges and agrees that SunTrust has a right to maintain the confidentiality of such information. Accordingly, Contractor covenants and agrees that, during the Term, Contractor shall not directly or indirectly transmit or disclose any Trade Secrets or Confidential Information, during the Term and for a period of twenty four (24) months thereafter, to any person, concern or entity, or make use of any such Confidential Information, directly or indirectly, for Contractor or for others, without the prior express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer or President of SunTrust Banks, Inc. Trade Secrets protected by the Georgia Trade Secrets Act shall not lose this protection at the end of the twenty four month period but shall remain protected from use or disclosure for so long as they remain Trade Secrets.
Nondisclosure of Confidential Information.
(d) Contractor acknowledges and agrees that the obligations under these nondisclosure covenants are separate and distinct from other provisions of this Agreement, and a failure or alleged failure of SunTrust to perform its obligations under any provision of this Agreement shall not constitute a defense to the enforceability of these nondisclosure covenants. Nothing in this provision or this Agreement shall limit any rights or remedies otherwise available to SunTrust under federal, state or local law.
Enforceability of Covenants.
(a) . Contractor covenants and agrees that, during the Term, Contractor shall not directly or indirectly solicit or recruit any employee of SunTrust for the purpose of inducing or encouraging that employee to discontinue his or her employment relationship with SunTrust.
Nonrecruitment of Employees and Agents
(b) . As used in this Agreement, certain terms will be defined as follows:
Definitions
(c) . In light of SunTrust's legitimate interest in protecting its Confidential Information and Trade Secrets and preserving SunTrust's goodwill with its customers, Contractor covenants and agrees that during the Term, Contractor shall not, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer or President of SunTrust, directly or indirectly, for myself or on behalf of any other person or entity, solicit or attempt to solicit any Customer or Potential Customer for purposes of providing, marketing, servicing or selling Commercial, Private Wealth, and Retail Banking Products and Services, provided that such products and/or services are then being provided, marketed, serviced or sold by SunTrust.
Nonsolicitation
(d) . Contractor shall devote such time, attention and energies to the Services as is required. Contractor shall NOT during the Term of this Agreement be precluded from engaging in any other business activity, whether or not such business activity is pursued for gain, profit, or other pecuniary advantage; , , that in consideration for the fees provided to Contractor under this Agreement, Contractor agrees that during the Term Contractor shall not, for any reason, within the Restricted Territory, provide Prohibited Services as an employee, contractor, or agent to any person or entity engaged in the Business; , , that I may seek, and if granted obtain, from SunTrust a limited exemption from the provisions of this paragraph so long as (i) I do not compete directly with SunTrust Banks, Inc. or any subsidiary thereof and (ii) I obtain prior, written approval from SunTrust to engage in business activities otherwise prohibited by this Section 9(d), subject to the terms and conditions outlined in the approval of SunTrust. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Business" shall mean banks or other firms providing Commercial, Private Wealth, and Retail Banking Products and Services. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Prohibited Services" shall mean providing management oversight, strategic direction, or direct sales representation to a business unit providing Commercial, Private Wealth, and Retail Banking Products and Services. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Restricted Territory" shall mean all areas within a fifty (50) mile radius of any SunTrust retail bank branch in existence on the date on which this Agreement is executed.
Noncompetition
provided
however
provided
further
(e) . Each of the provisions contained in this Section 9 is intended to be construed as separate and independent of any other covenant or provision in this Section or in this Agreement. If any of the provision(s) contained in this Section 9 is ever deemed to exceed the time, scope, or geographic limitations permitted by applicable law, then such provision(s) shall be reformed to the maximum time, scope, and geographic limitations permitted by law. If any such provision(s) cannot be so reformed, then such provision shall be deemed to be severed from this Agreement, which shall then be construed as if it did not contain any such unenforceable provision, without adversely affecting the legality, validity, or enforceability of any of the remaining provisions of this Section or this Agreement.
Severability
(f) . Contractor's obligations under this Section 9 and Sections 7 and 8 of this Agreement (and any other sections of the Agreement as they may apply to such Sections), shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason. Contractor further acknowledges that the existence or assertion of any claim, demand, action, or cause of action against SunTrust, whether predicated upon this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by SunTrust of any of the covenants contained in this Agreement.
Survival of Obligations
Upon termination of this Agreement, for any reason, Contractor shall return to SunTrust all materials provided to Contractor by SunTrust within seven (7) days of termination of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.

My name is William R. Reed, Jr. My Social Security number is [ ] and my birth date is [ ]. This Noncompete, Waiver and Release Agreement and the attached Agreement to Arbitrate (collectively, "Agreement") were given to me on June 17, 2009 by SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust"). In consideration of the sum I will receive from SunTrust in the amount of $100,000 (the "Consideration") and the representations, warranties and covenants made herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
(a) . As used in this Agreement, the term "Trade Secrets" shall mean all secret, proprietary or confidential information regarding SunTrust or its activities that fits within the definition of "trade secrets" under the Georgia Trade Secrets Act. Nothing in this Agreement is intended, or shall be construed, to limit the protections of the Georgia Trade Secrets Act or any other applicable law protecting trade secrets or other confidential information. "Trade Secrets" shall not include information that has become generally available to the public by the act of one who has the right to disclose such information without violating any right or privilege of SunTrust. This definition shall not limit any definition of "trade secrets" or any equivalent term under the Georgia Trade Secrets Act or any other state, local or federal law.
Trade Secrets Defined
(b) As used in this Agreement, the term "Confidential Information" shall mean all information regarding SunTrust or any subsidiary, the activities or business of SunTrust or any subsidiary, or clients of SunTrust or any subsidiary that is not generally known to persons not employed by SunTrust or any subsidiary, is not generally disclosed by SunTrust practice or authority to persons not employed by SunTrust or any subsidiary, and is the subject of reasonable efforts to keep it confidential. Confidential Information shall include, but not be limited to current and future development and expansion or contraction plans of SunTrust or any subsidiary and each line of business; sale/acquisition plans and contacts; compensation policies and practices; underwriting policies and practices; lending policies and practices, confidential personnel matters; pricing practices and policies; information concerning the legal affairs of SunTrust or any subsidiary; and information concerning the financial affairs of SunTrust or any subsidiary. "Confidential Information" shall not include information that has become generally available to the public by the act of one who has the right to disclose such information without violating any right or privilege of SunTrust or any subsidiary. This definition shall not limit any definition of "confidential information" or any equivalent term under the Georgia Trade Secrets Act or any other state, local or federal law.
Confidential Information Defined.
(c) In consideration of the promises made by SunTrust hereunder, I hereby agree that, during the remainder of my employment with SunTrust and for a period of twenty-four (24) months immediately following the Retirement Date, I will not directly or indirectly transmit or disclose any Trade Secrets or Confidential Information to any person, concern or entity, or make use of any such Confidential Information, directly or indirectly, for myself or for others, without the prior express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer or President of SunTrust Banks, Inc. Trade Secrets protected by the Georgia Trade Secrets Act shall not lose this protection at the end of the two-year period but shall remain protected from use or disclosure for so long as they remain Trade Secrets. I warrant that I have not disclosed or used for my own benefit or the benefit of anyone other than SunTrust any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets prior to the execution of this Agreement.
Nondisclosure of Confidential Information.
(d) I agree that my obligations under these nondisclosure covenants are separate and distinct from other provisions of this Agreement, and a failure or alleged failure of SunTrust to perform its obligations under any provision of this Agreement shall not constitute a defense to the enforceability of these nondisclosure covenants. Nothing in this provision or this Agreement shall limit any rights or remedies otherwise available to SunTrust under federal, state or local law.
Enforceability of Covenants.
(a) . In exchange for the Consideration I will receive from SunTrust hereunder, I agree that, during the remainder of my employment with SunTrust and for a period of twenty-four (24) months immediately following the Retirement Date, I will not directly or indirectly solicit or recruit any employee of SunTrust for the purpose of inducing or encouraging that employee to discontinue his or her employment relationship with SunTrust or any subsidiary.
Nonrecruitment of Employees and Agents
(b) . As used in this Agreement, certain terms will be defined as follows:
Definitions
(c) . In light of SunTrust's legitimate interest in protecting its Confidential Information and Trade Secrets and preserving SunTrust's goodwill with its customers, I agree that, during the remainder of my employment and for a period of twenty-four (24) months immediately following the Retirement Date, I will not, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer or President of SunTrust, directly or indirectly, for myself or on behalf of any other person or entity, solicit or attempt to solicit any Customer or Potential Customer for purposes of providing, marketing, servicing or selling Commercial, Private Wealth, and Retail Banking Products and Services, provided that such products or services are then being provided, marketed, serviced or sold by SunTrust or any subsidiary.
Nonsolicitation
(d) . In exchange for the Consideration SunTrust will pay to me hereunder, I agree that, during the remainder of my employment with SunTrust and for a period of twenty-four (24) months following the Retirement Date, I will not, within the Restricted Territory, provide Prohibited Services as an employee, contractor, or agent to any person or entity engaged in the Business; , , that I may seek, and if granted obtain, from SunTrust a limited exemption from the provisions of this paragraph so long as (i) I do not compete directly with SunTrust Banks, Inc. or any subsidiary thereof and (ii) I obtain prior, written approval from SunTrust to engage in business activities otherwise prohibited by this Section 9(d), subject to the terms and conditions outlined in the approval of SunTrust. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Business" shall mean banks or other firms providing Commercial, Private Wealth, and Retail Banking Products and Services. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Prohibited Services" shall mean providing management oversight, strategic direction, or direct sales representation to a business unit providing Commercial, Private Wealth, and Retail Banking Products and Services. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Restricted Territory" shall mean all areas within a fifty (50) mile radius of any SunTrust Bank retail bank branch in existence on the date on which this Agreement is executed.
Noncompetition
provided
however
(e) I understand and agree that my obligations under the above covenants are separate and distinct under this Agreement, and the failure or alleged failure of SunTrust to perform its obligations under any other provisions of this Agreement shall not constitute a defense to the enforceability of this covenant. I also agree that any breach of these covenants by me will result in irreparable damage and injury to SunTrust and that SunTrust will be entitled to injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction without the necessity of posting any bond. I understand and agree that I will be obligated to pay all costs and attorneys' fees incurred by SunTrust in enforcing the restrictive covenants in this Agreement.
Enforceability of Covenants.
(a) I agree that any claim arising from or relating to this Agreement or a breach of this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the employment arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association and through the offices of the Association located nearest to the SunTrust office serving as the headquarters in Memphis, Tennessee at the time the arbitration is sought (the "Memphis Office"). I agree that the arbitrator shall have the additional right to rule on motions to dismiss and/or motions for summary judgment, applying the standards governing such motions under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. I acknowledge that I have read and executed the Agreement to Arbitrate attached hereto and I agree that the Consideration I am receiving hereunder is sufficient consideration to bind my signature to this Agreement, including the Agreement to Arbitrate attached hereto. Any arbitration related to this Agreement shall be mandatory and binding except that SunTrust will not enforce mandatory arbitration of ERISA health and disability plan claims, workers compensation claims, unemployment compensation claims or any other claims to the extent such enforcement is prohibited by applicable law or contract. The arbitration shall take place in the jurisdiction of the Memphis Office. If the arbitrators make an award, a judgment on the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. In addition, either party may apply to the state court or federal court serving the jurisdiction of the Memphis Office for any temporary injunction or other equitable remedy in aid of arbitration pending final resolution of the dispute through arbitration. In the event any party institutes legal, equitable or arbitration proceedings to enforce or collect damages under this Agreement, I agree that the court or arbitrator(s) may award reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses to the prevailing party or divide the fees and expenses between the parties in a manner that reflects the outcome of the arbitration.
(b)
I agree that this Agreement contains all the terms that are applicable to my retirement from SunTrust and replaces all other agreements I may have with SunTrust or any subsidiary related to these issues, except for any employee benefit plan, incentive or executive compensation plan or arrangement or stock option agreement in which I have a vested benefit as of my last day of employment. I acknowledge that the terms of these benefit plans, incentive or executive compensation plans and stock option agreements shall not be affected by, superseded or replaced by this Agreement or any part thereof. I also agree that, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, this Agreement cannot be changed or enlarged except by a written amendment that is signed by SunTrust and me. If a dispute arises between SunTrust or any subsidiary and me related to this Agreement, I understand that, except as otherwise provided herein, it will be resolved in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia and, with respect to arbitration, the Federal Arbitration Act. If any provision or portion of a provision of this Agreement is waived by SunTrust, or any subsidiary, or me or is determined to be unlawful or unenforceable, the waiver or finding of unlawfulness or unenforceability will not act as a waiver or finding of unlawfulness or unenforceability of any other provision or portion of a provision of this Agreement.
(c)
I understand that this Agreement is not an admission by SunTrust or any subsidiary or me that any statute or law has been violated or that SunTrust or any subsidiary or I have acted improperly or violated any duty or obligation.
(d)
I agree that the contents, terms and existence of this Agreement must be kept confidential, and that I will not reveal them to anyone, except my spouse, attorney or accountant or unless required by law or regulatory or administrative agency, without the prior written consent of SunTrust. I also agree not to make disparaging remarks related to my employment with SunTrust at any time before or after the Retirement Date.
(e)
By signing this Agreement, I acknowledge that I have read and understand its terms, and that I have been advised to consult with an attorney about the Agreement and its binding effect on my rights. I also acknowledge that I am satisfied with the terms of this Agreement, that its terms are binding on me, my agents, personal representatives, successors and assigns, and that I am signing this Agreement on a knowing and voluntary basis. I understand and agree that SunTrust has the right, without my prior consent, to assign this Agreement to any successor, assignee, parent, affiliate, or subsidiary.
(f)
I understand that I am entitled to consider the terms of the Agreement for twenty-one (21) days after receiving it. I understand that I may sign it anytime within that twenty-one (21) day period. If I do not sign and return the Agreement on or before the twenty-first (21) day after receiving it, I understand that I will not receive the Consideration. I understand that (i) I may revoke this Agreement within seven (7) days after signing it, (ii) it cannot become effective and enforceable until after the revocation period expires and (iii) I cannot receive the Consideration if I revoke it within the seven (7) day period.
st
BEFORE SIGNING THE NONCOMPETE, WAIVER AND RELEASE AGREEMENT AND THIS AGREEMENT (COLLECTIVELY, "AGREEMENT"), I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE READ PARAGRAPH 9(a) OF THE NONCOMPETE, WAIVER AND RELEASE AGREEMENT AND THAT I UNDERSTAND THE FOLLOWING:
SunTrust Employee
      
     
Date Date
      
     


