FILE:STI/STI-8K-20090107164020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) Effective January 1, 2009 (except as otherwise indicated), SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Company" or the "Registrant") amended the following compensation plans in which either its named executive officers or its directors participate: SunTrust Banks, Inc. Directors Deferred Compensation Plan. The Company amended and restated this plan to incorporate all prior amendments and to bring it into compliance with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A by establishing rules for deferral elections and payment of benefits. The rules apply to deferrals of fees and retainers as well as deferrals of restricted stock units granted under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan. SunTrust Banks, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. The Company amended and restated this plan to incorporate prior amendments and to clarify the calculation of Tier 1 benefits and the coordination of change in control benefits with the change in control agreements between the Company and certain execu tives. The Section 409A amendments include the 6-month hold-back rule for key employees and rules relating to distribution elections, including changes in elections. Grandfathered SERP benefits are not subject to the Section 409A rules. SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Plan. The Company amended and restated this plan to clarify how this plans excess benefits coordinate with the qualified retirement plan formulae for the Personal Pension Account and the traditional 1% benefit which were first introduced in 2008. Other amendments included changes to bring the plan into compliance with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A regarding election deferrals, distribution elections, special key employee rules and coordination of payment types for offset plans providing Section 409A benefits, and exemptions for 409A grandfathered benefits. SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. The Company amended and restated this plan to bring it into compliance with the requ irements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A with respect to rules for deferral elections, distribution elections and key employees. The plan was also updated to reflect the termination of the Performance Unit Plan in 2008, the deferral opportunities and special rules for certain functional incentive plans, and the special Section 409A grandfather rules. SunTrust was named as administrator, in addition to being named fiduciary and sponsor. SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Excess Plan. The Company amended and restated this plan to comply with the Section 409A rules, including but not limited to the rules on subsequent elections, key employee delay in payments on separation from service and elections relating to performance based compensation. Benefits grandfathered from Section 409A are described in Appendix A to the plan. Crestar Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. The Company restated the plan document to include all amendments adopted through December 31, 2008. Many, but not all, of the benefits are grandfathered benefits under Section 409A. Therefore, the Company revised the plan to include Section 409A rules on benefit payments, key employees and other pertinent provisions. National Commerce Financial Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. The Company amended this plan to bring it into compliance with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A for nongrandfathered benefits. National Commerce Financial Deferred Compensation Plan. The Company amended this plan to bring it into compliance with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A including rules for subsequent elections and key employee delays. National Commerce Financial Equity Investment Plan. The Company amended this plan to bring it into compliance with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A for nongrandfathered benefits. Section 409A benefits subject to early taxation are distributed in an immediate lump sum. Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors of Crestar Financial Corporation and Crestar Bank. The Company amended and restated this Plan to incorporate all amendments as of December 3, 2008 and further to amend the Plan to provide for immediate lump sum distribution of Section 409A benefits, subject to the 6-month delay for key employees. Crestar Financial Corporation Directors Deferred Equity Plan (DEP). The Company amended and restated this Plan to clarify certain definitions after the Crestar merger into SunTrust and to incorporate all amendments through December 31, 2008. SunTrust Banks, Inc. Stock Plans. The Company adopted an omnibus amendment to each stock plan maintained by it to bring such plans into compliance with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Crestar Financial Corporation Deferred Compensation Program Under Incentive Compensation Plan of Crestar Financial Corporation and Affiliated Corporations, as amended effective January 1, 2009. The Company amended this pla n to bring it into compliance with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Copies of the each such agreement are included as exhibits 10.1 through 10.13 to this Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02. The foregoing summary of these agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference thereto.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
The purpose of this Plan is to provide a mechanism under which a Director can elect to defer the payment of his or her Retainer, Meeting Fees, and/or RSU Awards until after the earlier of his or her death or resignation, removal or retirement as a Director and, further, to elect to treat such deferrals as if invested either in an interest bearing account at SunTrust Bank or in SunTrust Stock pending the distribution of such deferrals in accordance with the terms of this Plan. The Plan was originally established as of January 1, 1994 and is amended and restated in this document to comply with Code section 409A as of January 1, 2009. All amounts deferred under this Plan shall be governed by the terms of this amended and restated Plan.
The Plan is intended to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention.
2.3  means for purposes of this Plan the Board of Directors of SunTrust.
Board
5.2 . The form of payment a Director elects, or is deemed to elect, for the Account need not be the same form of payment the Director elects, or is deemed to elect, for the RSU Account. The following forms of payment are available:
Distribution Forms
5.5 .
Beneficiary
SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.

Exhibit 10.2
SunTrust Banks, Inc. hereby amends and restates the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as last amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2001 in the form of this SunTrust Banks, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan effective as of January 1, 2009 (the "Plan"). Except as otherwise specifically provided in this document, the terms of this Plan shall apply only to a Participant who terminates employment with SunTrust and all Affiliates after 2004 and has not commenced receiving payment of the benefits under the Plan prior to January 1, 2009. During the period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, the Plan has operated in reasonable good faith compliance with Code section 409A and the transitional guidelines set forth in official IRS guidance. The Plan is maintained to provide a targeted level of post-retirement income for certain executives of SunTrust and its Affiliates and to supplement the benefits provided under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan and the SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Retirement Plan.
This Plan is intended to better enable SunTrust to deliver more competitive levels of total retirement income to its senior executives; to aid in the recruitment and retention of critical executive talent; and to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (except with respect to Grandfathered Amounts). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with these intentions.
All capitalized terms used in this Plan and not defined in this document (including an Appendix) shall have the same meaning as in SunTrust's Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Article 2 whenever such capitalized terms are used throughout this Plan:
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant is subject to the terms of a change in control agreement with SunTrust (the "Change in Control Agreement") at the time of his termination of employment with SunTrust or an Affiliate, solely for purposes of such Participant's benefits under the Plan, "Cause" shall have the meaning provided in the Change in Control Agreement.
For purposes of this Section 2.23(a)(1), the term "Reduction Factor" means 96.3%.
Provided, that in no event shall the SERP Benefit for a Tier 2 Participant with an accrued benefit as of December 31, 2007 be less than (iv) or (v), whichever is greater (the "Tier 2 Minimum Benefit"), minus (vi), where:
C = such Participant's annual benefit under the ERISA Excess Plan, if any; and D = such Participant's annual Other Retirement Arrangement Benefit, if any.
If any benefit payable under A through D is payable in a form other than a life only annuity or such benefit is payable at a time other than the date as of which the SERP Benefit is paid, such benefit will be converted to a life only annuity payable as of the same date as the SERP Benefit using the actuarial factors then in effect to make such conversions under the Retirement Plan.
For purposes of this Section 2.23(b), "present value" is determined using the same interest rate and mortality assumptions used for calculating lump sum payments under the Retirement Plan as in effect on December 31, 1995, including the interest rate published by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC"), and when the PBGC rate is no longer published, the interest rate will be (i) the rate that would be used to calculate a lump sum paid from the Retirement Plan less (ii) the average monthly difference between the PBGC rate and the Retirement Plan rate for the five (5) year period ending on the date the PBGC rate was last published.
Each executive of SunTrust or an Affiliate who is eligible for one or more benefits under this Plan will be a Participant in this Plan to the extent of the benefits for which he or she is eligible and will remain a Participant until all such benefits are paid to or on behalf of such Participant or forfeited in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
The Committee will designate those executives who are eligible for a SERP Benefit and will also designate each eligible executive as a Tier 1 Participant or a Tier 2 Participant. After December 31, 2007, an executive who begins participation in this Plan will be a Tier 2 Participant. Effective January 1, 2009, at the time the Committee designates an executive eligible to participate in this Plan, the Committee shall specify the applicable formula to calculate such Participant's SERP Benefit, including any special SERP Compensation or SERP Service as described in Sections 2.22 and 2.25.
Subject to Article 13, the Committee in its absolute discretion may revoke or change any such designation at any time but no such revocation or change will be applied retroactively to deprive an individual of vested benefits accrued under this Plan to the date of such revocation or change. Eligibility for an Other Retirement Arrangement Benefit will depend upon the terms of the applicable Other Retirement Arrangement.
4.1 .
Amount
4.2 . A Participant's entire vested SERP Benefit under this Plan (other than Grandfathered Amounts) will be paid at the time and in the form determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of the SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Retirement Plan, including any required six-month delay in payment for Key Employees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a lump sum is payable to a Participant designated in , the amount of the lump sum will be calculated in accordance with the special lump sum calculation in Section 2.23(b). If the SERP Benefit is payable after the date of a Participant's Separation from Service (including as a result of the six month delay in payment for a Key Employee), interest shall accrue from the date of determination of such amount in the same manner and at the same rate as would accrue on the Personal Pension Account under the Retirement Plan until payment commences.
Time and Form of Benefit Payable to Participants
Exhibit B
"Present value" is determined using the actuarial factors then in effect under the Retirement Plan to calculate lump sums or, if applicable, the factors under Section 2.23(b).
If a Participant who is eligible for an Other Retirement Arrangement Benefit terminates employment with SunTrust and all Affiliates on or after the date the Participant is vested in such benefit, his or her eligibility for the Other Retirement Arrangement Benefit, if any, to which such Participant is entitled and the eligibility for any survivor benefits payable on such Participant's behalf under such Other Retirement Arrangement shall be determined under the terms of such Other Retirement Arrangement; provided, however, to the extent any portion of such Other Retirement Arrangement Benefit or survivor benefits is subject to Code section 409A, the time and form of payment of such amounts shall be determined in accordance with Section 4.2.
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may make any payments under this Plan subject to forfeiture on such terms and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances to protect the interests of SunTrust. Further, if the Participant is terminated from employment with SunTrust or one of its Affiliates for Cause, the Committee in its discretion may forfeit entirely any benefits payable under this Plan. Forfeiture under this Article 6 shall be in addition to any other remedies which may be available to SunTrust or an Affiliate at law or in equity.
All benefits payable under the terms of this Plan shall be paid by SunTrust from its general assets. No person shall have any right or interest or claim whatsoever to the payment of a benefit under this Plan from any person whomsoever other than SunTrust, and no Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right or interest whatsoever to the payment of a benefit under this Plan which is superior in any manner to the right of any other general and unsecured creditor of SunTrust.
Participation in this Plan does not grant to any individual the right to remain an employee of SunTrust or any Affiliate for any specific term of employment or in any specific capacity or at any specific rate of compensation.
A Participant, a spouse or a Beneficiary under this Plan shall have no right or power whatsoever to alienate, commute, anticipate or otherwise assign at law or equity all or any portion of any benefit otherwise payable under this Plan, and SunTrust shall have the right, in the event of any such action, to terminate permanently the payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, any Participant, spouse or Beneficiary who attempts to do so.
SunTrust intends that this Plan come within the various exceptions and exemptions to ERISA for a plan maintained for a "select group of management or highly compensated employees" as described in ERISA sections 201(2), 301(a) (3), and 401(a) (1), and any ambiguities in this Plan shall be construed to affect that intent.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of the Plan shall apply to the Grandfathered Amounts, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Code section 409A to the Grandfathered Amounts.
Reimbursement of reasonable costs and expenses under this Section 13.8 shall be administered consistent with the following additional requirements as set forth in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv): (1) a Participant's eligibility for benefits in one year will not affect a Participant's eligibility for benefits in any other year; (2) any reimbursement of eligible expenses will be made on or before the last day of the year following the year in which the expense was incurred; and (3) a Participant's right to benefits is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. In the event the Participant is a Key Employee, reimbursement for benefits under this Section 13.8 shall commence in the seventh month following the date of the Participant's Separation from Service. No reimbursement shall be made under this Section 13.8 for the same expenses that are reimbursed to a Participant under any other agreement between the Participant and SunTrust or an Affiliate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, SunTrust has caused this amended and restated Plan to be executed by its duly authorized officer to evidence its adoption hereof effective as of January 1, 2009.
SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
By: Title:
/s/ Donna D. Lange
SVP, Corporate Benefits Director
Date:
December 31, 2008
(SEAL)
Exhibit A
Pursuant to Section 2.14, Other Retirement Arrangement means the following plan, program, arrangement or agreement (a) that is maintained by SunTrust or an Affiliate, (b) that provides a benefit calculated as a defined-benefit type benefit and (c) in which a Participant also participates:
Exhibit B
The Committee has designated the following Participants as eligible for the Special Lump Sum calculation described in Section 2.23(b) of the Plan document:
Exhibit C
The Committee designated the following executives as Tier 1 and Tier 2 Participants:
The following individuals who were former key officers of National Commerce Financial Corporation or its affiliates were designated by the Committee as Tier 2 Participants:
Exhibit D
The Committee designated the Participants listed below as being 100% vested in their SERP Benefits.
Exhibit E
The Committee designated the Participants listed below as eligible for the special retirement reduction described in Section 4.1(b)(4) and in Section 4.3(c)(2)(iii):

Exhibit 10.3
(a) Excess Plan Participant Before 2008 Receiving
Traditional Benefit 4
(b) Excess Plan Participant Before 2008 Receiving
PPA Benefit 5
(c) Excess Plan Participant After 2007 Receiving
Traditional Benefit 5
(d) Excess Plan Participant After 2007 Receiving
PPA Benefit 5
(e) Tier 1 Participants Receiving Excess Plan
(1) Excess Plan Participant Before 2008
Receiving Traditional Benefit 11
(2) Excess Plan Participant Before 2008
Receiving PPA Benefit 11
(3) Excess Plan Participant After 2007
SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Corporation") hereby amends and restates the SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Retirement Plan (the "Plan"), effective as of January 1, 2009. This Plan was originally effective as of August 13, 1996. The purpose of this Plan is to restore to certain executives of the Corporation and its Affiliates those retirement benefits that cannot be paid from the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan ("Retirement Plan") as a result of the limitations imposed by sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code").
The Plan is amended and restated in this document, effective January 1, 2009. It is intended to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (except with respect to amounts covered by ). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention.
Appendix B
All capitalized terms used in this Plan and not defined in this document (including an Appendix) shall have the same meaning as in the Corporation's Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Article 2 whenever such capitalized terms are used throughout this Plan:
(a) the Participant's willful and continued failure to perform his job duties in a satisfactory manner after written notice from the Corporation to Participant and a thirty (30) day period in which to cure such failure;
(b) the Participant's conviction of a felony or engagement in a dishonest act, misappropriation of funds, embezzlement, criminal conduct or common law fraud;
(c) the Participant's material violation of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics of the Corporation or the Code of Conduct of an Affiliate;
(d) the Participant's engagement in an act that materially damages or materially prejudices the Corporation or an Affiliate or the Participant's engagement in activities materially damaging to the property, business or reputation of the Corporation or an Affiliate; or
(e) the Participant's failure and refusal to comply in any material respect with the current and any future amended policies, standards and regulations of the Corporation, any Affiliate and their regulatory agencies, if such failure continues after written notice from the Corporation to the Participant and a thirty (30) day period in which to cure such failure, or the determination by any such governing agency that the Participant may no longer serve as an officer of the Corporation or an Affiliate.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant is subject to the terms of a change in control agreement with the Corporation (the "Change in Control Agreement") at the time of his termination of employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate, solely for purposes of such Participant's benefits under the Plan, "Cause" shall have the meaning provided in the Change in Control Agreement.
(a) A Participant in this Plan with an accrued Excess Benefit at December 31, 2007, who accrues a benefit under the Retirement Plan after 2007 under the Traditional Benefit formula has an Excess Benefit in this Plan equal to the sum of:
Excess Plan Participant Before 2008 Receiving Traditional Benefit.
The Excess Plan Traditional Benefit is calculated using actual service and base salary (or benefits base), if applicable, each as recognized under the terms of the Retirement Plan.
(b) A Participant in this Plan with an accrued Excess Benefit at December 31, 2007, who accrues a benefit under the Retirement Plan after 2007 under the PPA Benefit formula has an Excess Benefit in this Plan equal to the sum of:
Excess Plan Participant Before 2008 Receiving PPA Benefit.
For purposes of this Section 2.14(b), if the Participant's Compensation at the end of any Plan Year is less than the Annual Compensation Limit, both (1) the amounts that would otherwise have been included in Compensation in such Plan Year but for being deferred under the Deferred Compensation Plan, and (2) the amount of any Mandatory Deferral (as defined in the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated from time to time) vesting in such Plan Year; will be included as eligible Compensation, up to the Annual Compensation Limit.
(c) A Participant who enters this Plan after 2007 and who accrues a benefit under the Retirement Plan after 2007 under the Traditional Benefit formula has an Excess Benefit based on the Traditional Benefit formula beginning on the date of the Participant's commencement of participation in this Plan. The Excess Benefit and the offset Retirement Plan benefit will be calculated using the Participant's actual service earned beginning on the date of participation in this Plan and base salary (or benefits base, if applicable) earned both before and after the date of participation in this Plan.
Excess Plan Participant After 2007 Receiving Traditional Benefit.
(d) A Participant who enters this Plan after 2007 and who accrues a benefit under the Retirement Plan after 2007 under the PPA Benefit formula has an Excess Plan PPA Benefit based on pay credits earned beginning on the date of the Participant's commencement of participation in this Plan and total years of vesting service with the Corporation and its Affiliates earned before, during and after participation in this Plan. The PPA Benefit offset which is used to calculate the Excess Plan PPA Benefit is also calculated using pay credits earned beginning on the date of participation in this Plan and total years of vesting service. For purposes of this Section 2.14(d), if the Participant's Compensation at the end of any Plan Year is less than the Annual Compensation Limit, both (1) the amounts that would otherwise have been included in Compensation in such Plan Year but for being deferred under the Deferred Compensation Plan, and (2) the amount of any Mandatory Deferral vesting in such Plan Year; will be included as eligible Compensation, up to the Annual Compensation Limit.
Excess Plan Participant After 2007 Receiving PPA Benefit.
(e) A Tier 1 Participant who began participating in this Plan before 2008 and who accrues benefits under the Traditional Benefit formula under the Retirement Plan after 2007 has an Excess Benefit in this Plan based on the sum of the following:
Tier 1 Participant Receiving Excess Plan Traditional Benefit.
The Excess Plan Traditional Benefit is calculated using actual service and base salary (or benefits base), if applicable. The Annual Compensation Limit does not apply to Tier 1 Participants.
2.20 means the period of delay in distribution set forth in Section 4.4.
Key Employee Delay
2.24 means the calendar year.
Plan Year
2.30 means each Participant listed on .
Tier 1 Participant
Appendix A
The distribution provisions of this Article 4 shall apply only to amounts subject to Code section 409A. Distribution rules applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are summarized in .
Appendix B
(a) In the event the Participant's Separation from Service occurs first:
Separation from Service.
(b) In the event a Participant's Disability occurs first, payment shall be made in the month after the date the Participant attains age sixty-five (65).
Disability.
(a) Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, in the event of the death of the Participant after his or her Vested Date and before any benefit payments under the Plan have been made to the Participant, the amount of the pre-retirement death benefit determined below in Section 4.5(b) will be distributed to the Participant's Beneficiary in a lump sum in the month after the date of the Participant's death (provided that any payments that would occur before such month shall be paid as scheduled). In the event of the death of the Participant after any benefit payments have been made in a form elected by the Participant under Sections 4.6 or 4.7, death benefits under the Plan will be payable to the Participant's Beneficiary only to the extent provided under the form of distribution elected by the Participant.
Payment of Death Benefit.
(b) Effective January 1, 2008, for all Participants who are vested and die before receiving any benefit payments under this Plan, the survivor benefit payable under this Plan based on the Excess Benefit other than Grandfathered Amounts shall be determined as follows:
Calculation of Pre-Retirement Death Benefit.
(a) The election may not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made;
(b) In the case of an election to change the time or form of a distribution under Section 4.3, a distribution may not be made earlier than at least five (5) years from the date the distribution would have otherwise been made; and
(c) In the case of an election to change the time or form of a distribution related to a payment at a specified time or pursuant to a fixed schedule, the election must be made at least twelve (12) months before the date the distribution is scheduled to be paid.
Any election (including changes solely among the Annuity Options) with respect to the form of payment under the Plan after the Participant's third Subsequent Deferral Election shall be null and void and have no force or effect. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Subsequent Deferral Election solely to change the form of payment from one Annuity Option to another Annuity Option listed in Section 4.8(b) shall not be subject to the conditions set forth in Sections 4.7(a)-(c) above. In the event any portion of the Excess Benefit is ultimately payable in a lump sum after the Participant made one or more Subsequent Deferral Elections under this Section 4.7, interest shall accrue on such portion during the period commencing on the Participant's Separation from Service and ending on the date of payment at the same rate as would accrue on the Personal Pension Account under the Retirement Plan until such amount is paid or commences under this Article 4.
(a) Lump sum; or
(b) One of the following Annuity Options the payments under which shall be determined as the Actuarial Equivalent of the single life annuity; provided, however, the options listed in (3)  (6) are only available on or after a Participant's Earliest Retirement Date (as defined in the Retirement Plan):
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may make any payments under this Plan subject to forfeiture on such terms and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances to protect the interests of the Corporation. Further, if the Participant is terminated from employment with the Corporation or one of its Affiliates for Cause, the Committee in its discretion may forfeit entirely any benefits payable under this Plan. Forfeiture under this Article 5 shall be in addition to any other remedies which may be available to the Corporation or an Affiliate at law or in equity.
All benefits payable under the terms of this Plan shall be paid by the Corporation from its general assets. No person shall have any right or interest or claim whatsoever to the payment of a benefit under this Plan from any person whomsoever other than the Corporation, and no Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right or interest whatsoever to the payment of a benefit under this Plan which is superior in any manner to the right of any other general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation.
Participation in this Plan does not grant to any individual the right to remain an employee of the Corporation or any Affiliate for any specific term of employment or in any specific capacity or at any specific rate of compensation.
A Participant, a spouse or a Beneficiary under this Plan shall have no right or power whatsoever to alienate, commute, anticipate or otherwise assign at law or equity all or any portion of any benefit otherwise payable under this Plan, and the Corporation shall have the right, in the event of any such action, to terminate permanently the payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, any Participant, spouse or Beneficiary who attempts to do so.
The Corporation intends that this Plan come within the various exceptions and exemptions to ERISA for a plan maintained for a "select group of management or highly compensated employees" as described in ERISA sections 201(2), 301(a) (3), and 401(a) (1), and any ambiguities in this Plan shall be construed to affect that intent.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of the Plan shall apply to the Grandfathered Amounts, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Code section 409A to the Grandfathered Amounts.
Executed this day of 2008.
31st
December
The following list of Participants each shall be a Tier 1 Participant:
Distribution of Grandfathered Amounts shall be made in accordance with the Plan terms as in effect on October 3, 2004 (the "Grandfathered Terms") and as summarized in this . Capitalized terms used in this , but not defined herein, will have the same meaning as defined by the Plan in effect on October 3, 2004.
Appendix B
Appendix B
B.1 .
Timing and Amount
(i) if a Participant terminates employment after his or her Vested Date but before his or her earliest "early retirement date" under
the Retirement Plan, payment automatically will be made at his or her earliest "early retirement date" under the Retirement Plan, and
B.2 .
Form of Benefit
(b) . A Participant may make a written election to have his or her entire vested Excess Benefit paid in any form of benefit available under the Retirement Plan and such Excess Benefit shall be paid in the form specified in the Participant's most recent election; provided, however, that such an election shall not be effective unless made at least one year before his or her Excess Benefit is paid under this Plan. If an election is not effective, the Excess Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum. Any benefit paid in a form other than a life only
Other Benefit Forms
annuity shall be Actuarially Equivalent to the benefit that would have been paid to such Participant in the form of a life only annuity.
B.3 .
Survivor Benefit
Other Participants
B.4 .
Administration, Amendment and Termination
The Committee shall have all powers necessary to administer this Plan, to amend this Plan from time to time in any respect whatsoever and to terminate this Plan at any time; provided, however, that any such amendment or termination shall not be applied retroactively to deprive a Participant of benefits accrued under this Plan to the date of such amendment or termination. The Committee also shall have the power to delegate the exercise of all or any part of such powers to such other person or persons as the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances. This Plan shall be binding on any successor in interest to the Corporation.

Exhibit 10.4
Page
SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust") hereby amends and restates the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, effective as of January 1, 2009, except as otherwise specifically noted. SunTrust previously amended and restated the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Management Incentive Plan Deferred Compensation Fund (the "MIP Fund") and the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Performance Unit Plan Deferred Compensation Fund (the "PUP Fund") to establish the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), effective October 1, 1999. The purpose of the Plan is to provide a nonqualified and unfunded deferred compensation program to a "select group of management or highly compensated employees" of SunTrust and its Affiliates within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA.
The Plan is amended and restated in this document, effective January 1, 2009. It is intended to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (except with respect to amounts covered by ). Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention.
Appendix A
The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Article 2 whenever such capitalized terms are used throughout this Plan:
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant is subject to the terms of a change in control agreement with SunTrust (the "Change in Control Agreement") at the time of his termination of employment with SunTrust or an Affiliate, solely for purposes of such Participant's benefits under the Plan, "Cause" shall have the meaning provided in the Change in Control Agreement.
2.8 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
Executed this day of 2008.
31st
December
Distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) (the "Grandfathered Amounts") and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A shall be made in accordance with the Plan terms as in effect on October 3, 2004 and as summarized in this . Unless otherwise specified below, all Section references in this shall refer to Sections in this .
Appendix A
Appendix A
Appendix A
A Participant's Award to which an in-service distribution election applies pursuant to this Section 1.3 shall be maintained as a sub-account of the Participant's Account unless all of the Participant's Awards deferred pursuant to this Plan are subject to an in-service distribution election with the same Designated Distribution Date. Awards deferred and not subject to an in-service distribution election are distributed pursuant to Section 1.1 or 1.2.
If a Participant dies after having received one or more installment payments but before all installment payments have been made, the remaining annual installment payments shall be paid to his Beneficiary at the same time they would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. The Beneficiary may request an accelerated payment in the form of a lump-sum cash payment by making a written request to the Administrator prior to the January 1 of the calendar year in which the benefit will be paid. The Administrator has sole discretion and authority to approve or deny the Beneficiary's request.
A-2.
Right to Amend or Terminate Plan
The amendment or termination of the Plan with respect to the Grandfathered Amounts shall be made in accordance with the Plan terms as in effect on October 3, 2004 and as summarized in this Section A-2. SunTrust expects to continue this Plan indefinitely, but reserves the right to amend or discontinue the Plan should it deem such an amendment or discontinuance necessary or desirable. SunTrust hereby authorizes and empowers the Administrator to amend this Plan in any manner that is consistent with the purpose of this Plan as set forth above, without further approval from the Board except as to any matter that the Administrator determines may result in a material increased cost to SunTrust. However, if SunTrust or Administrator should amend or discontinue this Plan, SunTrust shall be liable for payment of any Awards deferred under this Plan and earnings thereon that have accrued and are vested as of the date of such action.
The following plans shall constitute Eligible Plans as of January 1, 2009:

Exhibit 10.5
SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Corporation") has adopted and currently sponsors the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2006 and as it may be subsequently amended (the "401(k) Plan"). In accordance with the provisions of Sections 401(a)(17), 402(g) and 415(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), the 401(k) Plan is limited in its capacity to allow elective contributions and to provide matching contributions on behalf of certain highly compensated employees.
The Corporation has also adopted and currently sponsors the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Excess Plan, amended and restated January 1, 1999 and subsequently amended (the "Excess Plan"), in order to provide benefits not otherwise permitted to be provided under the 401(k) Plan due to the limitations of Sections 401(a)(17), 402(g) and 415(c) of the Code to a "select group of management or highly compensated employees" of the Corporation and its Affiliates within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA.
The Excess Plan was last restated with subsequent amendments adopted through July 1, 1999. The Excess Plan is being amended and restated in this document, effective as of January 1, 2009, in order to comply with Code Section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (except with respect to amounts covered by ). Notwithstanding any other provision of the Excess Plan, the Excess Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention.
Addendum B
Unless otherwise defined in this Excess Plan or unless the context in the Excess Plan clearly indicates another meaning, any defined terms in the 401(k) Plan that are used in the Excess Plan are hereby incorporated by reference into this Excess Plan.
1.6 means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
(e) the Participant's failure and refusal to comply in any material respect with the current and any future amended policies, standards and regulations of the Corporation, any Affiliate and their regulatory agencies, if such failure continues
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant is subject to the terms of a change in control agreement with the Corporation (the "Change in Control Agreement") at the time of his termination of employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate, solely for purposes of such Participant's benefits under the Plan, "Cause" shall have the meaning provided in the Change in Control Agreement.
1.8 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
Performance Based Compensation
1.13 means, for purposes of the Excess Plan, Eligible Compensation as defined in the 401(k) Plan, from time to time, determined without regard to Code Section 401(a)(17) and modified in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.2 of this Excess Plan. Effective January 1, 2006, for any Participant who retires or terminates employment with the Corporation and its Affiliates after December 31, 2005, unless otherwise excepted by the Administrator, Eligible Compensation shall be limited to two times the annual compensation limit for qualified
Eligible Compensation
1.15 means the Corporation's common stock.
Employer Stock
Investment Fund
1.22 means the calendar year.
Plan Year
3.5 Matching Contributions made after June 30, 1999
Distributions and Forfeitures
(b) . For any Plan Year beginning on and after January 1, 2002, the Administrator may determine in its sole discretion that Employer matching contributions for the Plan Year under this Excess Plan shall be subject to a year-end or more frequent adjustment process. For any such year in which the adjustment process is in effect, matching contributions under this Excess Plan shall be tentatively credited to Participants' Accounts and shall be deemed to be invested in a money market fund or other Investment Fund selected by the Administrator that provides fixed earnings until the adjustment process is complete. At the end of the Plan Year or other more frequent adjustment interval, the Administrator, in its sole and complete discretion, may reduce matching contributions for any Participant whose matching contributions exceed the maximum permissible amount
Adjustment Process
9.6 . This Excess Plan shall be administered and maintained as a plan of deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated
Nonqualified Plan
9.8 . The Corporation expects to continue this Excess Plan indefinitely, but reserves the right to amend or discontinue the Excess Plan should it deem such an amendment or discontinuance necessary or desirable. The Corporation hereby authorizes and empowers the Administrator appointed to administer this Excess Plan to amend this Excess Plan in any manner that is consistent with the purpose of this Excess Plan as set forth above, without further approval from the Board or the Compensation Committee except as to any matter that the Administrator determines may result in a material increased cost to the Corporation or its Affiliates. However, if the Corporation or Administrator should amend or discontinue this Excess Plan, the Corporation shall be liable for payment of any amounts deferred under this Excess Plan and earnings thereon that have accrued and are vested as of the date of such action.
Right to Amend or Terminate Plan
[Remainder of page intentionally left blank]
The following provisions are records of the Excess Plan's relevant history. These provisions have the same Section headings and numbers as the corollary Sections in the main text of the Excess Plan, with the prefix "A-" to correspond to this . Certain provisions explain rules that were in effect during the stated periods of the Excess Plan's existence but have been revised as set forth in the corollary Sections of the main text of the Excess Plan. Although revised, these historical provisions may continue to affect the amount of and/or entitlement to benefits of a Participant or beneficiary whose benefits are determined after the dates when these provisions were changed, particularly those Participants who terminated before the effective date of one or more revisions.
Addendum A
A-2.3 . Before January 1, 2005, Eligible Compensation taken into account for purposes of elective contributions and matching contributions under this Excess Plan was limited to $300,000 or such lesser or greater amounts as the Administrator may have determined in its sole discretion.
Compensation Limit
Distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code Section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code Section 409A (the "Grandfathered Amounts") shall be made in accordance with the Plan terms as in effect on October 3, 2004 and as summarized in this . Unless otherwise specified below, all Section references in this shall refer to Sections in this .
Addendum B
Addendum B
Addendum B
If a Participant dies after having received one or more installments but before all installment payments have been made, the remaining annual installment payments shall be paid to his Beneficiary at the same time they would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. The Beneficiary may request an accelerated payment in the form of a lump-sum cash payment by making a written request to the Administrator prior to the January 1 of the calendar year in which the benefit will be paid. The Compensation
B-6.7 . If a benefit hereunder is payable to a minor or a person declared incompetent or to a person incapable of handling the disposition of his property, the Administrator may direct payment of such Plan benefit to the guardian, legal representative or person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent or person. The Administrator may require proof of incompetency, minority, incapacity or guardianship as it may deem appropriate prior to distribution of the benefit. A payment pursuant to this Section B-6.7 shall completely discharge the Administrator and the Corporation from all liability with respect to such benefit.
Payment to Guardian, Legal Representative or Other
B-9.8 . The Corporation expects to continue this Excess Plan indefinitely, but reserves the right to amend or discontinue the Excess Plan should it deem such an amendment or discontinuance necessary or desirable, subject to the restrictions on amendments after a Change in Control. The Corporation hereby authorizes and empowers the Administrator to amend this Excess Plan in any manner that is consistent with the purpose of this Excess Plan as set forth above, without further approval from the Board except as to any matter that the Administrator determines may result in a material increased cost to the Corporation. However, if the Corporation or Administrator should amend or discontinue this Excess Plan, the Corporation shall be liable for any contributions and earnings thereon that have accrued and are vested as of the date of such action.
Right to Amend or Terminate Plan

Exhibit 10.6
The Board of Directors of Crestar Financial Corporation (the Corporation) adopted the Crestar Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the Plan), effective January 1, 1995. The purpose of the Plan was to assist in attracting and retaining those employees whose judgment, abilities and experience would contribute to its continued progress and success. The Board of Directors also determined that the Plan should further those objectives by providing retirement and related benefits that supplement the amounts payable under the deferred compensation plans and arrangements currently maintained by the Corporation. The Plan was intended to provide an unfunded supplemental retirement benefit to a select group of management and highly compensated employees as such terms are used in sections 201, 301, and 501 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The Plan must be interpreted and administered in a manner that is consistent with that intent. Effective December 29, 1998, Crestar Bank became Plan sponsor of this Plan and all other plans funded through the Crestar Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans Trust.
Effective July 19, 1998, the definition of Accounting Firm was amended to read as follows:
means the public accounting firm retained as the Corporation's independent auditor as of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control. If, however, such firm declines or is unable to undertake the determinations assigned to it under this Plan, then "Accounting Firm" shall mean such other independent accounting firm agreed upon by the Corporation and the Participant. The two preceding sentences to the contrary notwithstanding, if the public accounting firm retained as the Corporation's independent auditor as of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control is serving as an accountant or auditor of the individual, group or entity effecting the Change in Control, the Participant shall be entitled to appoint another nationally recognized public accounting firm to make the determinations required under this Plan (in which case such accounting firm shall then be referred to as the "Accounting Firm").
Accounting Firm
1.07. means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
1.12. means the sum of the base salary and bonus earned by the Executive and paid by the Corporation, an Affiliate, or both, for a calendar year. For purposes of this Section 1.12, an Executive's "bonus" for any calendar year shall be the Executive's incentive award under the Management Incentive Compensation Plan of Crestar Financial Corporation (or any successor or substitute plan) earned for the calendar year, regardless of whether such award is determined or payable after the end of the calendar year. An Executive's shall be determined without regard to any compensation reductions or deferrals under Code section 125 or 401(k) and without regard to any salary or bonus deferrals under nonqualified deferred compensation plans of the Corporation or an Affiliate. Effective December 31, 1998, under the Plan for three Executives who signed agreements with the Company and SunTrust Banks, Inc. shall not include any amount earned by or paid to the Executive by the Company or any Affiliate after December 31, 1998, except that the Executive's bonus earned under the Management Incentive Plan for the 1998 award year shall be included as part of the Executive's 1998 . Copies of those agreements are attached as Exhibits I-1, I-2 and I-3 to this Plan and incorporated herein by reference.
Compensation
Compensation
Compensation
Compensation
2.01.
Beginning Participation
Each person who is an Executive on January 1, 1995 shall be a Participant in the Plan effective January 1, 1995. Each person who becomes an Executive after January 1, 1995 shall be a Participant in the Plan as of the date that his participation is approved in writing by a resolution adopted by the Committee.
2.02.
Change in Status
Except as provided in Section 2.03, a Participant shall cease to be a Participant in the Plan as of the date that he ceases to be an Executive if, as of that date, he has not satisfied the requirements to receive a retirement allowance under Article III. Despite the preceding sentence, with the written approval of, and subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by, the Committee in its sole discretion, a Participant who ceases to be an Executive before he has satisfied the requirements to receive a retirement allowance under Article III may continue to be a Participant if he continues to be an employee of the Corporation or an Affiliate.
2.03.
Change in Control
Section 2.02 to the contrary notwithstanding, each person who is a Participant on a Control Change Date shall continue to be a Participant in the Plan thereafter until the date that he ceases to be an employee of the Corporation, an Affiliate or a successor of the Corporation or an Affiliate and all of the benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant have been paid.
3.01.
Normal Retirement Allowance
(i) = 50% times the Participant's Average Compensation(determined as of his Normal Retirement Date), and
(ii) = Offset Amount.
The Normal Retirement Allowance shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, commencing as of the Participant's Normal Retirement Date and ending with the payment for the month in which the Participant dies. Payments of the Normal Retirement Allowance shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements.
(i) = 50% times the Designated Participant's Pro Rata Compensation (determined as of his Normal Retirement Date), and
(ii) = Offset Amount.
The Normal Retirement Allowance shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, commencing as of the Designated Participant's Normal Retirement Date and ending with the payment for the month in which the Designated Participant dies. Payments of the Normal Retirement Allowance shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements.
3.02.
Early Retirement Allowance
(i) = the Applicable Percentage times the Participant's Average Compensation (determined as of his Early Retirement Date), and
(ii) = the Offset Amount.
For purposes of this Section 3.02(a), the "Applicable Percentage" is equal to 50% reduced by 0.20833% for each full month that the commencement of the Participant's Early Retirement Allowance precedes the Participant's Normal Retirement Date. The Early Retirement Allowance shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, until the payment for the month in which the Participant dies. Payments of the Early Retirement Allowance shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements.
(i) = the Applicable Percentage times the Designated Participant's Pro Rata Compensation (determined as of his Early Retirement Date), and
(ii) = the Offset Amount.
For purposes of this Section 3.02(b), the "Applicable Percentage" is equal to 50% reduced by 0.20833% for each full month that the commencement of the Designated Participant's Early Retirement Allowance precedes the Participant's Normal Retirement Date. The Early Retirement Allowance shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, until the payment for the month in which the Designated Participant dies. Payments of the Early Retirement Allowance shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements.
3.03.
Change in Control Benefit
(i) = the Applicable Percentage times the Participant's Average Compensation (determined as of the date that the Participant ceases to be employed by the Corporation and its Affiliates after a Control Change Date), and
(ii) = the Offset Amount.
For purposes of this Section 3.03(a), the "Applicable Percentage" is equal to 50% reduced by 0.20833% for each full month that the Benefit Commencement Date precedes the month in which the Participant will attain age 60. The benefit payable under this Section 3.03(a) shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, commencing as of the Benefit Commencement Date and ending with the payment for the month in which the Participant dies. Payments of the benefit described in this Section 3.03(a) shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements.
(i) = the Applicable Percentage times the Participant's Pro Rata Compensation (determined as of the date that the Participant ceases to be employed by the Corporation and its Affiliates after a Control Change Date), and
(ii) = the Offset Amount.
For purposes of this Section 3.03(b), the "Applicable Percentage" is equal to 50% reduced by 0.20833% for each full month that the Benefit Commencement Date precedes the month in which the Participant will attain age 60. The benefit payable under this Section 3.03(b) shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, commencing as of the Benefit Commencement Date and ending with the payment for the month in which the Participant dies. Payments of the benefit described in this Section 3.03(b) shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements.
3.04.
Disability Retirement Allowance
Subject to the requirements of Article V and Section 8.01, a Participant shall be entitled to receive a retirement allowance under Section 3.02 if his employment with the Corporation and its Affiliates terminates on account of Total and Permanent Disability and such Total and Permanent Disability continues without interruption until the date that would have been the Participant's Early Retirement Date had he remained employed by the Corporation and its Affiliates. The retirement allowance under Section 3.02 shall commence as of the first day of the month coincident with or next following the date that would have been the Participant's earliest Early Retirement Date.
3.05.
Optional Forms of Benefit
A Participant who is entitled to receive a retirement allowance under this Article III may elect to have his benefit payable in a form other than a single life annuity. The optional forms of payment that are available under this Plan are the same optional forms of payment provided under the Retirement Plan (without regard to any requirement that the Participant's Spouse consent to such payment election) as in effect on the date that the Participant retires; provided, however, that only the Surviving Spouse may be designated under this Plan as the contingent annuitant for any form of payment that provides lifetime benefits to another person after the Participant's death. If the Participant elects an optional form of payment under this Section 3.05, any contingent annuitant or beneficiary designated in connection with that election need not be the same as any contingent annuitant or beneficiary designated under the Retirement Plan, the Excess Plan, the ANEX Plan or any other plan providing a benefit that is part of the Offset Amount. If the Participant elects an optional form of payment under this Section 3.05, the amount payable under the optional form shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the amount of the retirement allowance otherwise payable under this Article III in the form of a single life annuity. A Participant shall be entitled to elect an optional form of payment at such time and in such manner as the Administrator may decide; provided, however, that a Participant may not change his payment election after benefit payments have begun.
4.01.
Death Prior to Age 55
(i) = First: Calculate the Participant's Early Retirement Allowance under Article III using the Participant's Average Compensation as of his date of death and an Applicable Percentage equal to 37.5002%.
(ii) = Second: Calculate the Actuarial Equivalent, payable as a Joint and 50% Survivor Annuity, of the single life annuity determined in (i) above.
The Surviving Spouse's benefit is the survivor's portion of the Joint and 50% Survivor Annuity determined in (ii) above. For purposes of this Section 4.01(a), the term "Joint and 50% Survivor Annuity" means an annuity for the life of the Participant with a survivor annuity for the life of the Surviving Spouse which is equal to 50% of the amount of the annuity which is payable during the joint lives of the Participant and Surviving Spouse and which is the Actuarial Equivalent of an annuity for the life of the Participant.
The benefit payable under this Section 4.01(a) shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, commencing as of the month in which the Participant would have attained age 55 and ending with the month in which the Surviving Spouse dies. Payments of the benefit described in this Section 4.01(a) shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements. Except as provided in this Section 4.01(a), no death benefit shall be payable under this Plan on behalf of a Participant who dies before attaining age 55.
(i)= First: Calculate the Participant's Early Retirement Allowance under Article III using the Participant's Pro Rata Compensation as of his date of death and an Applicable Percentage equal to 37.5002%.
(ii) = Second: Calculate the Actuarial Equivalent, payable as a Joint and 50% Survivor Annuity, of the single life annuity determined in (i) above.
The Surviving Spouse's benefit is the survivor's portion of the Joint and 50% Survivor Annuity determined in (ii) above. For purposes of this Section 4.01(b), the term "Joint and 50% Survivor Annuity" means an annuity for the life of the Participant with a survivor annuity for the life of the Surviving Spouse which is equal to 50% of the amount of the annuity which is payable during the joint lives of the Participant and Surviving Spouse and which is the Actuarial Equivalent of an annuity for the life of the Participant.
The benefit payable under this Section 4.01(b) shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, commencing as of the month in which the Participant would have attained age 55 and ending with the month in which the Surviving Spouse dies. Payments of the benefit described in this Section 4.01(b) shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements. Except as provided in this Section 4.01(b), no death benefit shall be payable under this Plan on behalf of a Participant who dies before attaining age 55.
(i) = the benefit payable under the current SERP formula or
(ii) = the benefit that would be payable under the SERP benefit formula taking into account the participant's base salary as in effect on the date of death and his prior year's bonus (if the participant completed less than six months' service in the year of death) or his current bonus (if the participant completed at least six months' service in the year of death).
4.02.
Death on or After Age 55
(i) = First: Calculate the Participant's Early Retirement Allowance under Article III using the Participant's Average Compensation as of his date of death and an Applicable Percentage equal to 50% reduced by 0.20833% times each month that the Participant's death precedes the Participant's Normal Retirement Date.
(ii) = Second: Calculate the Actuarial Equivalent, payable as a Joint and 100% Survivor Annuity, of the single life annuity determined in (i) above.
The Surviving Spouse's benefit is the survivor's portion of the Joint and 100% Survivor Annuity determined in (ii) above. For purposes of this Section 4.02, the term "Joint and 100% Survivor Annuity" means an annuity for the life of the Participant with a survivor annuity for the Surviving Spouse which is equal to 100% of the amount of the annuity which is payable for the joint lives of the Participant and Surviving Spouse and which is the Actuarial Equivalent of an annuity for the life of the Participant.
The benefit payable under this Section 4.02 shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, commencing as of the first day of the month following the Participant's death and ending with the payment for the month in which the Surviving Spouse dies. Payments of the benefit described in this Section 4.02 shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements. Except as provided in this Section 4.02, no death benefit shall be payable under this Plan on behalf of a Participant who dies after attaining age 55 but before the commencement of a retirement allowance under Article III.
(i) = First: Calculate the Participant's Early Retirement Allowance under Article III using the Participant's Pro Rata Compensation as of his date of death and an Applicable Percentage equal to 50% reduced by 0.20833% times each month that the Participant's death precedes the Participant's Normal Retirement Date.
(ii) = Second: Calculate the Actuarial Equivalent, payable as a Joint and 100% Survivor Annuity, of the single life annuity determined in (i) above.
The Surviving Spouse's benefit is the survivor's portion of the Joint and 100% Survivor Annuity determined in (ii) above. For purposes of this Section 4.02(b), the term "Joint and 100% Survivor Annuity" means an annuity for the life of the Participant with a survivor annuity for the Surviving Spouse which is equal to 100% of the amount of the annuity which is payable for the joint lives of the Participant and Surviving Spouse and which is the Actuarial Equivalent of an annuity for the life of the Participant.
The benefit payable under this Section 4.02(b) shall be payable in equal or nearly equal monthly installments, or more frequently based on the payroll practices of the Corporation and its Affiliates, commencing as of the first day of the month following the Participant's death and ending with the payment for the month in which the Surviving Spouse dies. Payments of the benefit described in this Section 4.02(b) shall be reduced in accordance with income and employment tax withholding requirements. Except as provided in this Section 4.02(b), no death benefit shall be payable under this Plan on behalf of a Participant who dies after attaining age 55 but before the commencement of a retirement allowance under Article III.
4.03.
Death After Retirement
If a Participant dies after the commencement of a retirement allowance under Article III, all payments from this Plan shall cease with the payment made for the month in which the Participant dies if the Participant was receiving a retirement allowance under this Plan in the form of a single life annuity. If the Participant elected an optional form of payment as provided in Section 3.05 and dies after the commencement of a retirement allowance under Article III, the amount of benefit, if any, payable under this Plan following the Participant's death shall be determined on the basis of the optional form of payment selected by the Participant.
No benefit will be payable to a Participant or Surviving Spouse under the Plan unless the Participant is a Participant on the date he ceases to be an employee of the Corporation or an Affiliate or a successor.
6.01.
Generally
The Plan shall be administered by the Administrator. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Administrator may adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the Plan. The Administrator's discretion to perform or consent to any act or to interpret the Plan is exclusive and shall be final and conclusive if all similarly situated Participants are treated in a consistent manner.
6.02.
Indemnification
The Corporation shall indemnify and save harmless the Administrator against any and all expenses and liabilities arising out of the administration of the Plan, excepting only expenses and liabilities arising out of his own willful misconduct. Expenses against which the Administrator shall be indemnified hereunder shall include without limitation, the amount of any settlement or judgment, costs, counsel fees, and related charges reasonably incurred in connection with a claim asserted, or a proceeding brought or settlement of a claim. The foregoing right of indemnification shall be in addition to any other rights to which the Administrator may be entitled.
6.03.
Determining Benefits
In addition to the powers hereinabove specified, the Administrator shall have the power to compute and certify the amount and kind of benefits from time to time payable to or on behalf of Participants under the Plan, to authorize all disbursements for such purposes, and to determine whether a Participant or Surviving Spouse is entitled to a benefit under the Plan.
6.04.
Cooperation
To enable the Administrator to perform its functions, the Corporation and its Affiliates shall supply full and timely information to the Administrator on all matters relating to the compensation of all Participants, their retirement, death or other reason for termination of employment, and such other pertinent facts as the Administrator may require.
6.05.
Claims
It is not necessary to file a claim in order to receive Plan benefits.
On receipt of a claim for Plan benefits, the Administrator must respond in writing within ninety days. If necessary, the Administrator's first notice must indicate any special circumstances requiring an extension of time for the Administrator's decision. The extension notice must indicate the date by which the Administrator expects to render a decision; an extension of time for processing may not exceed ninety days after the end of the initial period.
If a claim is wholly or partially denied, the Administrator must give written notice within the time provided in the preceding paragraph. An adverse notice must specify each reason for denial. There must be specific reference to provisions of the Plan or related documents on which the denial is based. If additional material or information is necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim, it must be described and there must be an explanation of why that material or information is necessary. Adverse notice must disclose appropriate information about the steps that the claimant must take if he wishes to submit the claim for review. If notice that a claim has been denied is not furnished within the time required in the preceding paragraph, the claim is deemed denied.
The full value of a payment made according to the provisions of the Plan satisfies that much of the claim and all related claims under the Plan against the Administrator and the Corporation and its Affiliates, each of whom, as a condition to a payment from it or directed by it, may require the Participant, Surviving Spouse, beneficiary or contingent annuitant or legal representative to execute a receipt and release of the claim in a form determined by the person requesting the receipt and release.
6.06.
Review of Claims
The Committee must review a claimant's proper written request for review of a denied claim. The Committee must receive the written request before sixty-one days after the claimant's receipt of notice that a claim has been denied according to the preceding Plan Section. The claimant and an authorized representative are entitled to be present and heard if any hearing is used as part of the review.
The Committee must determine whether there will be a hearing. Before any hearing, the claimant or a duly authorized representative may review all Plan documents and other papers that affect the claim and may submit issues and comments in writing. The Committee must schedule any hearing to give sufficient time for this review and submission, giving notice of the schedule and deadlines for submissions.
The Committee must advise the claimant in writing of the final determination after review. The decision on review must be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, and it must include specific reasons for the decision and specific references to the pertinent provisions of the Plan or related documents on which the decisions is based. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the written advice must be rendered within sixty days after the request for review is received, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing. If an extension is necessary, the decision must be rendered as soon as possible but no later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review. If the Committee has regularly scheduled meetings at least quarterly, the following rules govern the time for the decision after review. If the claimant's written request for review is received more than thirty days before a Committee meeting, the decision of the Committee must be rendered at the next meeting after the request for review is received. If the claimant's written request for review is received thirty days or less before a Committee meeting, the decision of the Committee must be rendered at the Committee's second meeting after the request for review has been received. If special circumstances (such as the need to hold a hearing) require an extension of time for processing, the decision of the Committee must be rendered not later than the Committee's third meeting after the request for review has been received. If an extension of time for review is required, written notice of the extension must be furnished to the claimant before the extension begins. If notice that a claim has been denied on review is not received by the claimant within the time required in this paragraph, the claim is deemed denied on review.
6.07.
Delegation of Committee Responsibilities
The Committee, in its discretion, may delegate to one or more officers of the Corporation or an Affiliate all or part of the Committee's authority and duties under the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee may not delegate its authority or duties under Article II, Article VII or Section 6.06. The Committee may revoke or amend the terms of a delegation in accordance with the preceding sentence but such action shall not invalidate any prior actions of the Committee's delegate or delegates that were consistent with the terms of the Plan and the prior delegation.
7.01.
Reservation of Rights
Except as otherwise specifically provided, the Corporation reserves the right to terminate, amend or modify this Plan wholly or partially at any time and from time to time. Such right to terminate, amend or modify the Plan shall be exercised by the Committee or its delegate. Notwithstanding the preceding, with respect to an affected Participant, the Plan may not be amended, modified or terminated after a Change in Control unless the affected Participant agrees to such amendment, modification or termination in writing.
7.02.
Limitation on Actions
The rights of the Corporation set forth in the preceding Section are subject to the condition that unless required by regulatory authorities governing the Corporation or its Affiliates, the Committee or its delegate shall take no action to terminate the Plan or decrease the benefit that would become payable or is payable, as the case may be, with respect to a Participant or his Surviving Spouse after the Participant has satisfied the requirements for an Early Retirement Allowance (regardless of whether he has retired) or the Participant or his Surviving Spouse has become entitled to a benefit under the Plan.
7.03.
Effect of Termination
Except as otherwise provided in this Article VII, upon the termination of this Plan by the Committee, the Plan shall be of no further force or effect, and neither the Corporation or its Affiliates or the Administrator nor the Participant or his Surviving Spouse shall have any further obligation or right under this Plan. Likewise, except as otherwise provided in this Article VII, the rights of any individual who was a Participant and who ceases to be a Participant shall be forfeited on the date that the individual ceases to be a Participant.
8.01.
Limitation on Benefits
8.02.
Unfunded Plan
The Corporation and its Affiliates have only a contractual obligation to make payments of the benefits described in the Plan. All benefits are to be satisfied solely out of the general corporate assets of the Corporation and its Affiliates which shall remain subject to the claims of its creditors. No assets of the Corporation or its Affiliates will be segregated or committed to the satisfaction of its obligations to any Participant or Surviving Spouse under this Plan. If the Corporation or an Affiliate, in its sole discretion, elects to purchase life insurance on the life of a Participant in connection with the Plan, the Participant must submit to a physical examination, if required by the insurer, and otherwise cooperate in the issuance of such policy or his rights under the Plan will be forfeited.
8.03.
Other Benefits and Agreements
The benefits, if any, provided for a Participant or a Surviving Spouse under the Plan are in addition to any other benefits available to such persons under any other plan or program of the Corporation for its employees, and, except as may otherwise be expressly provided for, the Plan shall supplement and shall not supersede, modify or amend any other plan or program of the Corporation or an Affiliate in which a Participant is participating.
8.04.
Restrictions on Transfer of Benefits
No right or benefit under the Plan shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void. No right or benefit hereunder shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the person entitled to such benefit. If any Participant or his Surviving Spouse should become bankrupt or attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber or charge any right to a benefit hereunder, then such right or benefit, in the discretion of the Administrator, shall cease and terminate, and, in such event, the Administrator may hold or apply all or part of the benefit of such Participant or Surviving Spouse in such manner and in such portion as the Administrator may deem proper.
8.05.
No Guarantee of Employment
The Plan does not in any way limit the right of the Corporation or an Affiliate at any time and for any reason to terminate the Participant's employment or such Participant's status as an officer of the Corporation or an Affiliate. In no event shall the Plan by its terms or implications constitute an employment contract of any nature whatsoever between the Corporation or an Affiliate and a Participant.
8.06.
Successors
The Plan shall be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns; subject to the powers set forth in Article VII, and upon a Participant and his Surviving Spouse and either of their assigns, heirs, executors and administrators.
8.07.
Construction
Headings are given for ease of reference and must be disregarded in interpreting the Plan. Masculine pronouns wherever used shall include feminine pronouns and the use of the singular shall include the plural.
8.08.
Governing Law
This Plan shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia (other than its choice-of-laws provisions) except to the extent that the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia are preempted by the laws of the United States.
Effective as of December 31, 1998, Crestar Financial Corporation ("Crestar") was merged into a wholly owned subsidiary of SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust") and Crestar and its affiliates became part of the SunTrust controlled group. For purposes of this Plan, a "change in control" occurred upon the date the merger agreement between Crestar and SunTrust was signed, July 10, 1998. Upon the "change in control" and after the actual merger, SunTrust has continued to honor the provisions of this Plan and has paid benefits when and as they have become due. Several Crestar executives were subject to benefit cutbacks as provided by this Plan and their agreements are attached to this Plan as exhibits.
The Plan as reflected in this document contains the original document and all amendments adopted since then. When reviewing this document, and considering the period after December 31, 1998, Crestar Financial Corporation should be read to mean SunTrust Banks, Inc. or its successor and Crestar Bank should be read to mean SunTrust Bank or its successor. Effective December 29, 1998, Crestar Bank became Plan sponsor of this Plan and all other plans funded through the Crestar Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans Trust, pursuant to actions of the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors of Crestar. SunTrust Bank as successor to SunTrust Bank is now sponsor.
SunTrust has caused its duly authorized officer to sign this document on this , to incorporate amendments made up to December 31, 2008, to the Crestar Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Plan, which was originally effective and last restated as of January 1, 1995.
31 day of December 2008
st
SUNTRUST BANK
By: Title:
/s/ Donna D. Lange
SVP, Corporate Benefits Director
Exhibit I-1
The undersigned hereby acknowledge their understanding of and agreement to the following:
This Acknowledgment and Agreement is effective as of July 20, 1998.
PARTICIPANT
Peter F. Nostrand
/
Peter F. Nostrand/
CRESTAR FINANCIAL CORPORATION
By:
/Ross W. Dorneman/
     
Ross W. Dorneman
SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
By:
/Mary T. Steele/
     
Mary T. Steele
Exhibit I-2
The undersigned hereby acknowledge their understanding of and agreement to the following:
This Acknowledgment and Agreement is effective as of July 20, 1998.
PARTICIPANT
James P. Breen
/James P. Breen/
     
CRESTAR FINANCIAL CORPORATION
By:
/Ross W. Dorneman/
     
Ross W. Dorneman
SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
By:
/Mary T. Steele/
     
Mary T. Steele
Exhibit I-3
The undersigned hereby acknowledge their understanding of and agreement to the following:
This Acknowledgment and Agreement is effective as of July 20, 1998.
PARTICIPANT
William G. Foster
/William G. Foster/
     
CRESTAR FINANCIAL CORPORATION
By:
/Ross W. Dorneman/
     
Ross W. Dorneman
SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
By:
/Mary T, Steele/_
     
Mary T. Steele
WHEREAS, SunTrust Bank (the "Corporation") currently maintains the Crestar Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan;
WHEREAS, the Corporation now considers it desirable to amend the Plan to meet the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended);
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Plan is hereby amended effective as of January 1, 2009, to add an Appendix A to read as follows:
1. . The terms of the Plan in effect on October 3, 2004 shall govern the time and form of distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A (the "Grandfathered Benefits").
Pre-2005 Deferrals
2. . To the extent that benefits under the Plan are subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A ("409A Benefits"), the Plan is intended to comply with such section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (collectively, "Section 409A"). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention. The terms of this Appendix A shall apply to distributions of 409A Benefits and not Grandfathered Benefits. Any provision of the Plan not in this Appendix that addresses distribution of benefits shall not apply to 409A Benefits.
409A Compliance
3. . Subject to Paragraph 4 and absent any effective elections under Paragraph 7, a Participant's 409A Benefits determined under the Plan shall be distributed, as set forth below, in a single life annuity commencing upon the earlier of: (i) the date a Participant becomes Disabled; or (ii) the date a Participant Separates from Service.
Distributions
(a) . In the event the Participant's Separation from Service occurs first:
Separation from Service
(1) If such Separation from Service occurs prior to the Participant's attainment of age fifty-five (55), payment shall commence in the second month after the date the Participant attains age fifty-five (55); or
(2) If such Separation from Service occurs on or after the Participant's attainment of age fifty-five (55), payment shall commence in the second month after the Participant Separates from Service.
(b) . In the event a Participant's Disability occurs first, payment shall commence in the month after the date the Participant attains age sixty-five (65).
Disability
4. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that a Participant is a Key Employee as of the date of his or her Separation from Service, any distributions to such Participant upon his or her Separation from Service shall not commence earlier than six months following the date of such Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death) (the "Key Employee Delay"). Amounts payable to the Participant during such period of delay shall be accumulated and paid in the seventh month following the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, in the month after the Participant's death).
Key Employee Delay
5. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event of the death of the Participant before any benefit payments under the Plan have been made to the Participant, the amount of the pre-retirement death benefit determined under the Plan (if any) will be distributed to the Participant's beneficiary in a single life annuity commencing in the month after the date of the Participant's death (provided that any payments that would occur before such month shall be paid as scheduled). In the event of the death of the Participant after any benefit payments have commenced, death benefits under the Plan will be payable to the Participant's beneficiary only to the extent provided under the form of distribution that has commenced.
Distributions Upon Death
6. . If a Participant's 409A Benefits are payable after the date of a Participant's Separation from Service pursuant to Paragraph 3(a) (including as a result of the Key Employee Delay), interest shall accrue from the date of determination of such amount in the same manner and at the same rate as would accrue on the Personal Pension Account under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time, until payment of such amount commences under this Appendix.
Interest
7. . Notwithstanding any prior elections or Plan provisions to the contrary, a Participant who was an employee of the Corporation and its affiliates (including on a paid leave of absence) may have made an election to receive his or her 409 Benefits under the Plan in any permitted form of payment offered by the Committee. Any such election must have become irrevocable on or before December 31, 2008 and must have been made in accordance with the procedures and distribution rules established by the Committee and rules under Section 409A.
Special One-Time Election
8. . Subject to the requirements of Paragraphs 4 and 7, a Participant may elect the manner in which his or her 409A Benefits under the Plan shall be paid from the optional forms of life annuities available under the Retirement Plan in accordance with the procedures and distribution rules established by the Committee and rules under Section 409A; provided, however, that a Participant may not change his payment election after benefit payments have begun. If elected, any 409A Benefits paid in a life annuity form other than a single life annuity shall be Actuarially Equivalent to the single life annuity benefit that would have been paid to such Participant.
Permitted Form of Payment Options
9. . If the Participant's 409A Benefits under the Plan are includible in income pursuant to Section 409A, such benefits shall be distributed immediately to the Participant.
Effect of Early Taxation
10. . No amendment of the Plan shall apply to Grandfathered Benefits, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Section 409A to the Grandfathered Benefits. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of 409A Benefits shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in this Appendix, unless the Corporation determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination in accordance with the requirements under Section 409A. Upon termination of the Plan, no further benefit accruals shall occur.
409A Requirements on Amendment or Termination
11. . All capitalized terms used in this Appendix and not defined herein shall have the same meaning as in the Plan. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Appendix whenever such capitalized terms are used:
Definitions
(a) . Actuarial Equivalent or Actuarially Equivalent means a form of benefit payment having an equivalent value.
Actuarial Equivalent
(b) . Disabled or Disability means a Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant's employer and, in addition, has begun to receive benefits under the Corporation's Long-Term Disability Plan.
Disability
(c) . Key Employee means an employee treated as a "specified employee" as of his Separation from Service under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) (i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to Section (5) thereof)) if the common stock of the Corporation or an affiliate is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Section 409A using a December 31 identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the 12-month period beginning on the April 1 following the identification date.
Key Employee
(d) . Separation from Service or Separates from Service means a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A.
Separation from Service
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this amendment to be executed this day of December, 2008.
31
st
SUNTRUST BANK
By: Title:
/s/ Donna D. Lange
SVP, Corporate Benefits Director

Exhibit 10.7
WHEREAS, SunTrust Bank (the "Corporation") currently maintains the National Commerce Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "Plan");
WHEREAS, the Corporation now considers it desirable to amend the Plan to meet the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended);
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Plan is hereby amended effective as of January 1, 2009, to add an Appendix A to read as follows:
1. . The terms of the Plan in effect on October 3, 2004 shall govern the time and form of distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A (the "Grandfathered Benefits").
Pre-2005 Deferrals
2. . To the extent that benefits under the Plan are subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A ("409A Benefits"), the Plan is intended to comply with such section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (collectively, "Section 409A"). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention. The terms of this Appendix A shall apply to distributions of 409A Benefits and not Grandfathered Benefits. Any provision of the Plan not in this Appendix that addresses distribution of benefits shall not apply to 409A Benefits.
409A Compliance
3. . Subject to Paragraph 4 and absent an effective election under Paragraph 7 or 8, a Participant's 409A Benefits determined under the Plan shall be distributed, as set forth below, in a single life annuity commencing upon the earlier of: (i) the date a Participant becomes Disabled; or (ii) the date a Participant Separates from Service.
Distributions
(a) . In the event the Participant's Separation from Service occurs first:
Separation from Service
(1) If such Separation from Service occurs prior to the Participant's attainment of age fifty-five (55), payment shall commence in the second month after the date the Participant attains age fifty-five (55); or
(2) If such Separation from Service occurs on or after the Participant's attainment of age fifty-five (55), payment shall commence in the second month after the Participant Separates from Service.
(b) . In the event a Participant's Disability occurs first, payment shall commence in the month after the date the Participant attains age sixty-five (65).
Disability
4. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that a Participant is a Key Employee as of the date of his or her Separation from Service, any distributions to such Participant upon his or her Separation from Service shall not commence earlier than six months following the date of such Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death) (the "Key Employee Delay"). Amounts payable to the Participant during such period of delay shall be accumulated and paid in the seventh month following the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, in the month after the Participant's death).
Key Employee Delay
5. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event of the death of the Participant before any benefit payments under the Plan have been made to the Participant, the amount of the pre-retirement death benefit determined under the Plan (if any) will be distributed to the Participant's beneficiary in a single life annuity commencing in the month after the date of the Participant's death (provided that any payments that would occur before such month shall be paid as scheduled). In the event of the death of the Participant after any benefit payments have commenced, death benefits under the Plan will be payable to the Participant's beneficiary only to the extent provided under the form of distribution that has commenced.
Distributions Upon Death
6. . If a Participant's 409A Benefits are payable after the date of a Participant's Separation from Service pursuant to Paragraph 3(a) (including as a result of the Key Employee Delay), interest shall accrue from the date of determination of such amount in the same manner and at the same rate as would accrue on the Personal Pension Account under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time, until payment of such amount commences under this Appendix.
Interest
7. . Notwithstanding any prior elections or Plan provisions to the contrary, a Participant who was an employee of the Corporation and its affiliates (including on a paid leave of absence) may have made an election to receive his or her 409 Benefits under the Plan in any permitted form of payment offered by the Committee. Any such election must have become irrevocable on or before December 31, 2008 and must have been made in accordance with the procedures and distribution rules established by the Committee and rules under Section 409A.
Special One-Time Election
8. . In addition to the requirements the Committee may establish, a Participant may make a subsequent deferral election to change the form of payment for his or her 409A Benefits on or after January 1, 2009 (each, a "Subsequent Deferral Election") only if the following conditions are satisfied:
Subsequent Deferral Election
(a) The election may not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made;
(b) In the case of an election to change the time or form of a distribution under Paragraph 3(a), a distribution may not be made earlier than at least five (5) years from the date the distribution would have otherwise been made; and
(c) In the case of an election to change the time or form of a distribution related to a payment at a specified time or pursuant to a fixed schedule, the election must be made at least twelve (12) months before the date the distribution is scheduled to be paid.
Any election (including changes solely among Actuarial Equivalent life annuities) with respect to the form of payment under the Plan after the Participant's third Subsequent Deferral Election shall be null and void and have no force or effect. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Subsequent Deferral Election solely to change the form of payment from one life annuity to another Actuarial Equivalent life annuity offered by the Committee shall not be subject to the conditions set forth in Paragraphs 8(a)-(c) above.
9. . Subject to the requirements of Paragraphs 4, 7 and 8, a Participant may elect the manner in which his or her 409A Benefits under the Plan shall be paid from among the options offered under the Basic Plan in accordance with the procedures and distribution rules established by the Committee and rules under Section 409A; provided, however, that a Participant may not change his payment election after benefit payments have begun. If elected, any 409A Benefits paid in a life annuity form other than a single life annuity shall be Actuarially Equivalent to the single life annuity benefit that would have been paid to such Participant.
Permitted Form of Payment Options
10. . If the Participant's 409A Benefits under the Plan are includible in income pursuant to Section 409A, such benefits shall be distributed immediately to the Participant.
Effect of Early Taxation
11. . No amendment of the Plan shall apply to Grandfathered Benefits, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Section 409A to the Grandfathered Benefits. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of 409A Benefits shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in this Appendix, unless the Corporation determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination in accordance with the requirements under Section 409A. Upon termination of the Plan, no further benefit accruals shall occur.
409A Requirements on Amendment or Termination
12. . All capitalized terms used in this Appendix and not defined herein shall have the same meaning as in the Plan. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Appendix whenever such capitalized terms are used:
Definitions
(a) . Actuarial Equivalent or Actuarially Equivalent means a form of benefit payment having an equivalent value.
Actuarial Equivalent
(b) . Disabled or Disability means a Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant's employer and, in addition, has begun to receive benefits under the Corporation's Long-Term Disability Plan.
Disability
(c) . Key Employee means an employee treated as a "specified employee" as of his Separation from Service under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) (i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to Section (5) thereof)) if the common stock of the Corporation or an affiliate is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Section 409A using a December 31 identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the 12-month period beginning on the April 1 following the identification date.
Key Employee
(d) . Separation from Service or Separates from Service means a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A.
Separation from Service
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this amendment to be executed this day of December, 2008.
31
st
SUNTRUST BANK
By: Title:
/s/ Donna D. Lange
SVP, Corporate Benefits Director

Exhibit 10.8
WHEREAS, SunTrust Bank (the "Corporation") currently maintains the National Commerce Financial Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan");
WHEREAS, the Corporation now considers it desirable to amend the Plan to meet the applicable requirements of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended) (the "Code");
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Plan is hereby amended effective as of January 1, 2009, to add an Appendix A to read as follows:
1. . The terms of the Plan in effect on October 3, 2004 shall govern the time and form of distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A (the "Grandfathered Benefits").
Pre-2005 Deferrals
2. . To the extent that benefits under the Plan are subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A ("409A Benefits"), the Plan is intended to comply with such section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention. The terms of this Appendix A shall apply to distributions of any 409A Benefits and not Grandfathered Benefits. Any provision of the Plan not in this Appendix that addresses distribution of benefits shall not apply to 409A Benefits.
409A Compliance
3. . Subject to Paragraph 4, a Participant's 409A Benefits, if any, shall be distributed in a lump sum within 30 days of the Participant's Separation from Service.
Distributions
4. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that a Participant is a Key Employee as of the date of his Separation from Service, his lump sum distribution shall be paid in the seventh month following the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, in the month after the Participant's death).
Key Employee Delay
5. . If the Participant's benefits under the Plan are includible in income pursuant to Code section 409A, such benefits shall be distributed immediately to the Participant.
Effect of Early Taxation
6. . No amendment of the Plan shall apply to Grandfathered Benefits, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Code section 409A to the Grandfathered Benefits. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of 409A Benefits shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in this Appendix, unless the Corporation determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination in accordance with the requirements under Code section 409A.
409A Requirements on Amendment or Termination
7. . All capitalized terms used in this Appendix and not defined herein shall have the same meaning as in the Plan. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Appendix whenever such capitalized terms are used:
Definitions
(a) . Key Employee means an employee treated as a "specified employee" as of his Separation from Service under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) (i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to Section (5) thereof)) if the common stock of the Corporation or an affiliate is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Code section 409A using a December 31 identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the 12-month period beginning on the April 1 following the identification date.
Key Employee
(b) . Separation from Service or Separates from Service means a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code section 409A.
Separation from Service
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this amendment to be executed this day of December, 2008.
31
st
SUNTRUST BANK
By: Title:
/s/ Donna D. Lange
SVP, Corporate Benefits Director

Exhibit 10.9
WHEREAS, SunTrust Bank (the "Corporation") currently maintains the National Commerce Financial Corporation Equity Investment Plan (the "Plan");
WHEREAS, the Corporation now considers it desirable to amend the Plan to meet the applicable requirements of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended) (the "Code");
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Plan is hereby amended effective as of January 1, 2009, to add an Appendix A to read as follows:
1. . The terms of the Plan in effect on October 3, 2004 shall govern the time and form of distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A (the "Grandfathered Benefits").
Pre-2005 Deferrals
2. . To the extent that benefits under the Plan are subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A ("409A Benefits"), the Plan is intended to comply with such section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention. The terms of this Appendix A shall apply to distributions of any 409A Benefits and not Grandfathered Benefits. Any provision of the Plan not in this Appendix that addresses distribution of benefits shall not apply to 409A Benefits.
409A Compliance
3. . Subject to Paragraph 4, a Participant's 409A Benefits, if any, shall be distributed in a lump sum within 30 days of the Participant's Separation from Service.
Distributions
4. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that a Participant is a Key Employee as of the date of his Separation from Service, his lump sum distribution shall be paid in the seventh month following the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, in the month after the Participant's death).
Key Employee Delay
5. . If the Participant's benefits under the Plan are includible in income pursuant to Code section 409A, such benefits shall be distributed immediately to the Participant.
Effect of Early Taxation
6. . No amendment of the Plan shall apply to Grandfathered Benefits, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Code section 409A to the Grandfathered Benefits. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of 409A Benefits shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in this Appendix, unless the Corporation determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination in accordance with the requirements under Code section 409A.
409A Requirements on Amendment or Termination
7. . All capitalized terms used in this Appendix and not defined herein shall have the same meaning as in the Plan. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Appendix whenever such capitalized terms are used:
Definitions
(a) . Key Employee means an employee treated as a "specified employee" as of his Separation from Service under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) (i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to Section (5) thereof)) if the common stock of the Corporation or an affiliate is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Code section 409A using a December 31 identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the 12-month period beginning on the April 1 following the identification date.
Key Employee
(b) . Separation from Service or Separates from Service means a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code section 409A.
Separation from Service
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this amendment to be executed this day of December, 2008.
31
st
SUNTRUST BANK
By: Title:
/s/ Donna D. Lange
SVP, Corporate Benefits Director

Exhibit 10.10
WHEREAS, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Corporation") currently maintains the Crestar Financial Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan For Outside Directors of Crestar Financial Corporation and Crestar Bank (the "Plan");
WHEREAS, the Corporation now considers it desirable to amend the Plan to meet the applicable requirements of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended) (the "Code");
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Plan is hereby amended effective as of January 1, 2009, to add an Appendix A to read as follows:
1. . The terms of the Plan in effect on October 3, 2004 shall govern the time and form of distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A (the "Grandfathered Benefits").
Pre-2005 Deferrals
2. . To the extent that benefits under the Plan are subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A ("409A Benefits"), the Plan is intended to comply with such section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention. The terms of this Appendix A shall apply to distributions of any 409A Benefits and not Grandfathered Benefits. Any provision of the Plan not in this Appendix that addresses distribution of benefits shall not apply to 409A Benefits.
409A Compliance
3. . Subject to Paragraph 4, a Participant's 409A Benefits, if any, shall be distributed in a lump sum within 30 days of the Participant's Separation from Service.
Distributions
4. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that a Participant is a Key Employee as of the date of his Separation from Service, his lump sum distribution shall be paid in the seventh month following the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, in the month after the Participant's death).
Key Employee Delay
5. . If the Participant's benefits under the Plan are includible in income pursuant to Code section 409A, such benefits shall be distributed immediately to the Participant.
Effect of Early Taxation
6. . No amendment of the Plan shall apply to Grandfathered Benefits, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Code section 409A to the Grandfathered Benefits. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of 409A Benefits shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in this Appendix, unless the Corporation determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination in accordance with the requirements under Code section 409A.
409A Requirements on Amendment or Termination
7. . All capitalized terms used in this Appendix and not defined herein shall have the same meaning as in the Plan. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Appendix whenever such capitalized terms are used:
Definitions
(a) . Key Employee means an employee treated as a "specified employee" as of his Separation from Service under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) (i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to Section (5) thereof)) if the common stock of the Corporation or an affiliate is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Code section 409A using a December 31 identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the 12-month period beginning on the April 1 following the identification date.
Key Employee
(b) . Separation from Service or Separates from Service means a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code section 409A.
Separation from Service
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this amendment to be executed this day of December, 2008.
31
st
SUNTRUST BANK
By: Title:
/s/ Donna D. Lange
SVP, Corporate Benefits Director
Section
Page
1. 
Purpose.
Crestar Financial Corporation and its subsidiary, Crestar Bank (collectively, the "Corporation"), adopted a plan under which the Corporation's Directors who were not Employees could defer all of either or both of the components of their Compensation. This Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors of Crestar Financial Corporation and Crestar Bank (the "Plan") was adopted effective January 1, 1983, and was last amended and restated December 13, 1983, subject to the provisions of Section 12. This Plan is intended to constitute a deferred compensation plan for corporate directors' fees in accordance with Revenue Ruling 71-419, 1971-2 C.B. 220.
Effective as of December 31, 1998, Crestar Financial Corporation was merged into a wholly owned subsidiary of SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust") and the Crestar and its affiliates became part of the SunTrust controlled group. Effective as of January 1, 1999, non-Employee Directors who did not become members of the SunTrust Board of Directors were allowed to continue making deferrals under this Plan if they continued to serve on the Board of Directors of the Corporation and they had elected to defer for the 1998 Plan Year. The effective date of the last deferral made under this Plan was December 31, 2003 for compensation earned in 2004. Thereafter, no additional deferrals have been made and no future deferrals are contemplated. The Plan as reflected in this document contains the 1983 amendment and restatement adopted by the Corporation with amendments adopted after that date. The last amendment before this current restatement was adopted in December 1998. When reviewing this document, Crestar Financial Corporation should be read to mean SunTrust Banks, Inc. or its successor and Crestar Bank should be read to mean SunTrust Bank or its successor.
2. 
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this Plan and to the Deferral Election Forms.
(a)  means a person or persons or other entity designated on a Beneficiary Designation Form by a Participant as allowed in Subsection 6(d) and Subsection 7(f) of this Plan to receive Deferred Benefit payments. If there is no valid designation by the Participant, or if the designated Beneficiary or Beneficiaries fail to survive the Participant or otherwise fail to take the Benefit, the Participant's Beneficiary is the first of the following who survives the Participant: a Participant's spouse (the person legally married to the Participant when the Participant dies); the Participant's children in equal shares; the Participant's other surviving issue, ; the Participant's parents; and the Participant's estate.
Beneficiary or Beneficiaries
per
stirpes
(b)  means a form acceptable to the Chairman of the Compensation Committee or his designee used by a Participant according to this Plan to name his Beneficiary or Beneficiaries who will receive all Deferred Benefit payments under this Plan if he dies.
Beneficiary Designation Form
(c)  means that schedule established by the Compensation Committee for each Deferral Year to determine the annual payment amounts attributable to Deferred Income Benefits. Each Deferral Year's Benefit Adjustment Schedule will be constructed by applying an adjustment factor established by the Committee periodically to the related Benefit Schedule. Thus, payments beginning earlier than age 65 will be reduced on a present value basis for each year that the Participant's age when payments begin is less than age 65. Payments beginning after the Participant is 66 will be increased on an annually compounded basis by a fixed percentage for each year that the Participant's age when payments begin is greater than age 65. The application of any Benefit Adjustment Schedule may be limited as provided in Subsection 7(c) of this Plan.
Benefit Adjustment Schedule
(d)  means the schedule established by the Compensation Committee for a Deferral Year as the annual payment amounts attributable to a Deferred Income Benefit under this Plan. The Benefit Schedule reflects the payments at age 65 per a specified amount (for example, per $1,000) of Compensation deferred as a Deferred Income Benefit according to a Deferral Election Form and according to Section 7 of this Plan. Any new Benefit Schedule established by the Compensation Committee for a Deferral Year applies to all Deferral Election Forms with respect to the applicable Deferral Year.
Benefit Schedule
(e)  means the board of directors of Crestar Financial Corporation and Crestar Bank according to law and each entity's governing documents.
Board
(f)  means a Member's Meeting Fees and Retainer Fee for the Deferral Year.
Compensation
(g)  means the Corporation's executive body bearing the title of Compensation Committee, constituted according to the Corporation's governing documents.
Compensation Committee
(h)  means both Crestar Financial Corporation and Crestar Bank, collectively.
Corporation
(i)  means a document governed by the provisions of Section 4 of this Plan, including the portion that is the Distribution Election Form and the related Beneficiary Designation Form that applies to all of that Participant's Deferred Benefits under the Plan.
Deferral Election Form
(j)  means a calendar year for which a Member has an operative Deferral Election Form.
Deferral Year
(k)  means either a Deferred Cash Benefit or a Deferred Income Benefit under the Plan for a Member who has submitted an operative Deferral Election Form pursuant to Section 4 of this Plan.
Deferred Benefit
(l)  means that bookkeeping record established for each Participant who elects a Deferred Cash Benefit under this Plan. A Deferred Cash Account is established only for purposes of measuring a Deferred Cash Benefit and not to segregate assets or to identify assets that may or must be used to satisfy a Deferred Cash Benefit. A Deferred Cash Account will be credited with the Participant's Compensation deferred as a Deferred Cash Benefit according to a Deferral Election Form and according to Section 6 of this Plan. A Deferred Cash Account will be credited periodically with amounts based upon interest rates established by the Compensation Committee under Subsection 6(b(b)) of this Plan.
Deferred Cash Account
(m)  means the Deferred Benefit elected by a Participant under Section 4 that results in payments governed by Section 6.
Deferred Cash Benefit
(n)  means the Deferred Benefit elected by a Participant under Section 4 that results in payments governed by Section 7. The amount and duration of a Participant's payments under each Deferred Income Benefit are determined for each Deferral Year according to the Participant's Deferred Income Benefit Record for that Deferral Year, which is based upon the Benefit Schedule and Benefit Adjustment Schedule for that Deferral Year established under Section 7 of this Plan by the Compensation Committee.
Deferred Income Benefit
(o)  means that bookkeeping record established for each Deferred Income Benefit attributable to a Participant who elects a Deferred Income Benefit under this Plan. A Deferred Income Benefit Record is only for purposes of accounting for a Deferred Income Benefit and not to segregate assets or to identify assets that may or must be used to satisfy a Deferred Income Benefit. A Deferred Income Benefit Record will be credited according to the Participant's Deferral Election Form and according to Subsection 7(d(d)) of this Plan.
Deferred Income Benefit Record
(p)  means those duly named members of the Board.
Directors
(q)  means that part of a Deferral Election Form used by a Participant according to this Plan to establish the duration of deferral and the frequency of payments of a Deferred Benefit. If a Deferred Benefit has no Distribution Election Form that is operative according to Section 4, then distribution of that Deferred Benefit is governed by Subsections 6(c) and (d), if it is a Deferred Cash Benefit, or by Subsections 7(e) and (f), if it is a Deferred Income Benefit.
Distribution Election Form
(r)  means the date established by this Plan as the date before which a Member must submit a valid Deferral Election Form to the Compensation Committee. For each Deferral Year, the Election Date is December 31 unless an earlier date is set by the Compensation Committee.
Election Date
(s)  means an individual with whom either Crestar Financial Corporation or Crestar Bank has an employer-employee relationship as determined for Federal Insurance Contribution Act purposes and Federal Unemployment Tax Act purposes, including Subsection 3401(c) of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations promulgated under that Subsection.
Employee
(t)  means the portion of a Director's Compensation that is based upon his attendance at Board meetings and meetings of the Corporation's committees, according to the Corporation's established rules and procedures for compensating Directors.
Meeting Fees
(u)  means Directors who are not simultaneously Employees.
Members
,
Effective January 1, 1999
the above definition is amended to read as follows:
means Directors who are not simultaneously Employees or members of the board of directors of SunTrust Banks, Inc. and who also deferred under this Plan in the 1998 Deferral Year and in each Deferral Year prior to the time for which the determination is being made.
Members
(v) , with respect to any Deferral Year, means a Member whose Deferral Election Form is operative for that Deferral Year according to Section 4 of this Plan.
Participant
(w)  means this Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors of Crestar Financial Corporation and Crestar Bank.
Plan
(x)  means that portion of a Director's Compensation that is fixed and paid without regard to his attendance at meetings.
Retainer Fee
, means the same as it does under section 2(1) of the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. 77B(1), except when it refers to an Employer Security. An Employer Security means a Security issued by the Corporation or by an Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) Affiliate. A contract to which ERISA section 408(b) (5) applies is not treated as a Security for purposes of this Plan.
(y) Effective January 1, 1988
Security
(z) , , or , with respect to a Participant, mean cessation of his relationship with the Corporation as a Director whether by death or severance for any other reason.
Terminate
Terminating
Termination
:
Effective October 23, 1998 the above definition is amended to read as follows
, , or with respect to a Participant, means cessation of his or her relationship with Crestar Financial Corporation as a member of the Board and cessation of his or her relationship with Crestar Bank as a member of the Board.
Terminate
Terminating
Termination
,
3. 
Participation.
A Member becomes a Participant for any Deferral Year by filing a valid Deferral Election Form according to Section 4 before the Election Date preceding that Deferral Year, but only if his Deferral Election Form is operative according to Section 4.
4. 
Deferral Election.
A deferral election is valid when a Deferral Election Form is completed, signed by the electing Member, and received by the Compensation Committee Chairman. Deferral elections are governed by the provisions of this section.
(a) A Participant may receive a Deferred Benefit for any Deferral Year only if he is a Member at the beginning of that Deferral Year.
(b) Before each Deferral Year's Election Date, each Member will be provided with Deferral Election Forms and a Beneficiary Designation Form. Under one or both Deferral Election Forms for a single Deferral Year, a Member may elect before the Election Date to defer the receipt of his entire Retainer Fee or all of his Meeting Fees or all of his Compensation for the Deferral Year. Each Distribution Election Form must provide for the deferral of its covered Deferred Benefit at least until after the Member is 65 or until he Terminates, if that is before he is 65. The duration of a deferral may be different for his Deferred Cash Benefit and his Deferred Income Benefit. A Member may not elect a Deferred Income Benefit for the Deferral Year in which he becomes 66 or for Deferral Years after that, but he may always elect a Deferred Cash Benefit.
(c) A Member may complete a Deferral Election Form for either a Deferred Cash Benefit or a Deferred Income Benefit for his Retainer Fee and a different Deferral Election Form for his Meeting Fees, or he may complete a single Deferral Election Form for his entire Compensation. A Member may not divide his Retainer Fee between Deferral Election Forms, and he may not divide his Meeting Fees between Deferral Election Forms.
(d) A Deferral Election Form that covers a Member's Meeting Fees must cover his entire Meeting Fees for the Deferral Year. A Deferral Election Form that covers a Member's Retainer Fee must cover his entire Retainer Fee for the Deferral Year.
(e) At such times and on such terms and conditions as may be established by the Compensation Committee, a Participant may elect to convert all or a portion of his Deferred Cash Benefit made under the Plan to a Deferred Income Benefit. No such election may be made or approved which would affect or otherwise change the frequency or commencement of any such Deferred Cash Benefit.
(f) Each Distribution Election Form is part of the Deferral Election Form on which it appears or to which it states that it is related. The Compensation Committee may allow a Participant to file one Distribution Election Form for all of his Deferred Cash Benefits and one for all of his Deferred Income Benefits. The provisions of Subsection 2((q)) apply to any Deferred Benefit under this Plan if there is no operative Distribution Election Form for that Deferred Benefit.
(g) If it does so before the last business day of the Deferral Year, the Compensation Committee may reject any Deferral Election Form or any Distribution Election Form or both, and it is not required to state a reason for any rejection. However, the Committee's rejection of any Deferral Election Form or any Distribution Election Form must be based upon action taken without regard to any vote of the Member whose Deferral Election Form or Distribution Election Form is under consideration, and the Committee's rejections must be made on a uniform basis with respect to similarly situated Members. Except as provided in Section 0, if the Compensation Committee rejects a Deferral Election Form, the Member must be paid the amounts he would then have been entitled to receive if he had not submitted the rejected Deferral Election Form.
:
Effective January 1, 1985, Subsection
4(g)
is amended to read as follows
(g) If it does so before the last business day of the Deferral Year, the Compensation Committee may wholly or partially reject any Deferral Election Form or any Distribution Election Form or both, and it is not required to state a reason for any rejection. However, the Committee's whole or partial rejection of any Deferral Election Form or any Distribution Election Form must be based upon action taken without regard to any vote of the Member whose Deferral Election Form or Distribution Election Form is under consideration, and the Committee's rejections must be made on a uniform basis with respect to similarly situated Members. Except as provided in Section 13, if the Compensation Committee wholly or partially rejects a Deferral Election Form, the Member must be paid the amounts he would then have been entitled to receive if he had not been entitled to submit the Deferral Election Form as to the whole or part rejected.
(h) A Member may not revoke a Deferral Election Form or a Distribution Election Form after the Deferral Year begins. Any revocation before the beginning of the Deferral Year is the same as a failure to submit a Deferral Election Form or a Distribution Election Form (as the case may be). Any writing signed by a Member expressing an intention to revoke his Deferral Election Form or a related Distribution Election Form and delivered to a member of the Compensation Committee before the close of business on the last business day preceding the Deferral Year is a revocation.
5. 
Effect of No Election.
A Member who has not submitted a valid Deferral Election Form to the Compensation Committee before the relevant Election Date may not defer his Compensation for the Deferral Year under this Plan. The Deferred Benefit of a Member who submits a valid Deferral Election Form but fails to submit a valid Distribution Election Form for that Deferred Benefit before the relevant Election Date or who otherwise has no valid Distribution Election Form for that Deferred Benefit is governed by Subsection 2(q).
6. 
Deferred Cash Benefits and Distributions.
(a) Deferred Cash Benefits will be set up in a Deferred Cash Account for each Participant and credited with interest at rates determined by the Compensation Committee. A Deferred Cash Benefit attributable to a Retainer Fee is credited to the Participant's Deferred Cash Account on the February 1 of the Deferral Year. A Deferred Cash Benefit attributable to a Meeting Fee is credited to the Participant's Deferred Cash Account on the first day of the month after a meeting. Interest is credited on the first day of each month based on the Deferred Cash Account balance at the end of the preceding day.
(b) Interest rates established by the Compensation Committee as the basis for additional credits to Deferred Cash Accounts will be announced periodically as specific amounts or as a variable rate linked to a specified standard. Those interest rates will apply prospectively for all current and future Deferred Cash Account balances until changed by another announcement. Interest credits are accrued annually on accumulated Deferred Cash Accounts. Interest is accrued through the end of the month preceding the month of distribution.
(c) A Deferred Cash Benefit will be paid in a lump sum unless the Participant's Deferred Cash Benefit Distribution Election Form specifies installment payments; , equal annual payments plus interest for 5, 10, 15, or 20 years. Any lump-sum payment will be paid or installment payments will begin to be paid on the February 15 of the year after the Participant's sixty-fifth birthday or earlier Termination, unless otherwise specified in a Participant's Deferred Cash Benefit Distribution Election Form. For distributions caused by Termination other than death, or for distributions that would otherwise begin because a Participant reaches age 65, the Deferred Cash Benefit Distribution Election Form may specify that payments are to commence on the February 15 following Termination or the February 15 following some specified age that is not less than the Participant's age two years from the Election Date pertaining to the applicable Deferral Year and not greater than the age at which there are no earnings limitations in order to receive full social security benefits (currently age 70).
e.g.
(d) Deferred Cash Benefits may not be assigned. A Participant may use only one Beneficiary Designation Form to designate one or more Beneficiaries for all of his Deferred Cash Benefits; such designations are revocable. Each Beneficiary will receive his portion of the Deferred Cash Account on February 15 of the Year following the Participant's death unless the Beneficiary's request for accelerated payment is approved at the Compensation Committee's discretion or unless the Beneficiary's request for a different distribution schedule is received before distributions begin and approved at the Compensation Committee's discretion. The Committee may insist that multiple Beneficiaries agree upon a single distribution method.
7. 
Deferred Income Benefits and Distributions.
(a) By electing a Deferred Income Benefit, a Member elects to be paid amounts attributable to that Deferred Income Benefit in installments for a specific number of years based upon his Deferred Income Benefit Record according to this Section determined by that Deferral Year's Benefit Schedule and Benefit Adjustment Schedule. Payments of amounts attributable to each of a Participant's Deferred Income Benefits are determined separately according to the Deferral Year for which the Deferred Income Benefit was elected.
(b) Each Deferral Year's Benefit Schedule and Benefit Adjustment Schedule will be published and made available to Members as soon as practicable after they are adopted by the Compensation Committee. Each Benefit Schedule and Benefit Adjustment Schedule must be filed with this document when adopted by the Compensation Committee. Proposed Benefit Schedules and Benefit Adjustment Schedules may be changed at the Committee's discretion until adopted by the Committee.
(c) Despite the relevant Benefit Schedule or Benefit Adjustment Schedule, at its discretion, the Compensation Committee may limit payments of amounts attributable to any Deferred Income Benefit so that a Participant who Terminates or who receives an accelerated distribution under the hardship provisions of Section 8 before he attains age 65 may not receive a rate of return greater than he would have received at age 65 based upon his Deferred Income Benefit Record at the time each distribution is made.
(d) Each of a Participant's Deferred Income Benefits will be set up in a Deferred Income Benefit Record for each Deferral Year. The first Deferred Benefit attributable to a Retainer Fee is credited to the Participant's Deferred Income Benefit Record on February 1 of the Deferral Year. A Participant's Deferred Benefits attributable to Meeting Fees are accumulated during the Deferral Year and credited to the Participant's Deferred Income Benefit Record on the first February 1 after the Deferral Year. A Participant's credit to his Deferred Income Benefit Record for Meeting Fees will be supplemented with interest credits as if his Meeting Fees had been credited to his Deferred Cash Account during the Deferral Year.
Effective January 1, 1985, Subsection
7(d)
is amended to read as follows:
(d) Each of a Participant's Deferred Income Benefits will be set up in a Deferred Income Benefit Record for each Deferral Year. Except as provided in the next sentence, the first Deferred Benefit attributable to a Retainer Fee is credited to the Participant's Deferred Income Benefit Record on February 1 of the Deferral Year. If a Member has elected a Deferred Income Benefit for his Retainer Fee for a Deferral Year, and if that Member's Retainer Fee is increased after the beginning of that Deferral Year, for as long as it deems it administratively useful, the Compensation Committee may elect to treat the portion of that increase that is not rejected according to Subsection 4(f) as if it were a Meeting Fee according to the next sentence (that is, the Deferred Benefit attributable to the increase may be accumulated for as long as the Compensation Committee deems it administratively useful and then credited to the Participant's Deferred Income Benefit). A Participant's Deferred Benefits attributable to Meeting Fees are accumulated during the Deferral Year and credited to the Participant's Deferred Income Benefit Record on the first February 1 after the Deferral Year.
(e) A Deferred Income Benefit will be paid out in equal annual installments based on the Participant's Deferred Income Benefit Record at the time each distribution is made and based on the related Deferred Income Benefit Distribution Election Form. Deferred Income Benefit payments may not begin before the year after the Participant is 55. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, Deferred Income Benefit payments begin on the February 15 of the year after a Participant's Termination (or earlier attainment of age 65), unless otherwise specified in his related Distribution Election Form. For distributions caused by Termination other than death, or for distributions that would otherwise begin because a Participant reaches age 65, the Deferred Income Benefit Distribution Election Form may specify that payments are to begin the February 15 following Termination or the February 15 following some specified age that is not less than 55 and not greater than the age at which there are no earnings limitations in order to receive full social security benefits (currently age 70).
(f) Deferred Income Benefits may not be assigned. A Participant may use only one Beneficiary Designation Form to designate one or more Beneficiaries for all of his Deferred Income Benefits; such designations are revocable. If a Participant dies before receiving all of his Deferred Income Benefit payments under all of his Deferral Election Forms, the Participant's Beneficiaries will receive the remaining payments and other survivors' benefits, as follows:
(1) If a Participant is not over age 65 and dies before Termination, his Beneficiaries will receive payments attributable to his Deferred Income Benefits determined as if he had Terminated at age 65 according to the Benefit Schedules and determined in duration by the related Distribution Election Forms. Such Beneficiaries will also receive on February 15 following the Participant's death, a lump-sum benefit equal in the aggregate to one-half of each of the original credits to his Deferred Income Benefit Record.
(2) If a Participant over age 65 dies before his Deferred Income Benefit payments begin, his Beneficiaries will receive payments attributable to his Deferred Income Benefits adjusted for commencement beyond age 65 in accordance with the related Benefit Adjustment Schedules. The Deferred Income Benefit payments will be at the times and for as long as specified in the related Distribution Election Forms. Such Beneficiaries will also receive on February 15 of the year following the Participant's death, a lump-sum benefit equal in the aggregate to one-half of each of the original credits to his Deferred Income Benefit Record.
(3) If a Participant dies after his Deferred Income Benefit payments begin, any remaining payments attributable to his Deferred Income Benefits will be continued to his Beneficiaries. Such Beneficiaries will also receive on February 15 of the year following the Participant's death, a lump-sum benefit equal in the aggregate to one-half of each of the original credits to his Deferred Income Benefit Record.
8. 
Hardship Distributions.
(a) At its sole discretion and at the request of a Participant before or after the Participant's Termination, or at the request of any of the Participant's Beneficiaries after the Participant's death, the Compensation Committee may accelerate and pay all or part of any amount attributable to a Participant's Deferred Benefits under this Plan. Accelerated distributions may be allowed only in the event of a financial emergency beyond the Participant's or Beneficiary's control and only if disallowance of a distribution would create a severe hardship for the Participant or Beneficiary. An accelerated distribution must be limited to the amount determined by the Compensation Committee to be necessary to satisfy the financial emergency. An accelerated distribution to a Beneficiary is also limited to the amount of the survivors' benefit payable.
(b) For purposes of an accelerated distribution of a Deferred Income Benefit under this section, the Deferred Income Benefit's value is determined by the relevant Deferred Income Benefit Record at the time of the distribution and by taking into account the Participant's age and the related Benefit Adjustment Schedule.
(c) Distributions under this section must first be made from the Participant's Deferred Cash Account before accelerating the distribution of any amount attributable to a Deferred Income Benefit. If distribution of any amount attributable to a Deferred Income Benefit is accelerated, the most recent Deferred Income Benefit must be exhausted first, followed in succession by exhaustion of each next-most-recent Deferred Income Benefit.
(d) A distribution under this section is in lieu of that portion of the Deferred Benefit that would have been paid otherwise. A Deferred Cash Benefit is adjusted for a distribution under this Section by reducing the Participant's Deferred Cash Account balance by the amount of the distribution. A Deferred Income Benefit is adjusted for a distribution under this Section by reducing the annual payments that would have been paid by the percentage that the distribution bears to the Deferred Income Benefit's maximum value (adjusted for any earlier distribution under this Section) based on the Participant's age at the time of distribution except as modified in paragraph (a) for Beneficiary distributions.
9. 
Corporation's Obligation.
Except as provided in Subsection 12(b), the Plan is unfunded. The Plan is funded only according to Subsection 12(b)b). Until the Plan is funded, a Deferred Benefit is at all times a mere contractual obligation of the Corporation. Until the Plan is funded, a Participant and his Beneficiaries have no right, title, or interest in the Deferred Benefits or any claim against them. Except as provided in Subsection 12((b)b), the Corporation will not segregate any funds or assets for Deferred Benefits nor issue any notes or security for the payment of any Deferred Benefit.
10. 
Control by Participant.
A Participant has no control over Deferred Benefits except according to his Deferral Election Forms, his Distribution Election Forms, and his Beneficiary Designation Form.
11. 
Claims Against Participant's Deferred Benefits.
A Deferred Cash Account and Deferred Income Benefit Record relating to a Participant under this Plan are not subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to do so is void. A Deferred Benefit is not subject to attachment or legal process for a Participant's debts or other obligations. Nothing contained in this Plan gives any Participant any interest, lien, or claim against any specific asset of the Corporation. Until the Plan is funded according to Subsection 12(b), a Participant or his Beneficiary has no rights other than as a general creditor.
12. 
Amendment or Termination.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section, this Plan may be altered, amended, suspended, or terminated at any time by the board of directors of Crestar Financial Corporation.
(a) This Plan is effective when the Internal Revenue Service rules to the satisfaction of the Corporation's counsel and the Compensation Committee that the Corporation may deduct payments of Deferred Benefits and that a Participant's Deferred Benefit is not taxable to him until it is paid. The Plan may be amended as deemed necessary by the Corporation's counsel and the Compensation Committee in order to obtain favorable rulings from the Internal Revenue Service. The Plan may be operated according to its terms (as amended periodically) and as directed by the Compensation Committee until it is effective. Once the Plan is effective, the board of directors of Crestar Financial Corporation may alter, amend, suspend, or terminate this Plan at any time. However, except for a termination of the Plan caused by the determination of the board of directors of Crestar Financial Corporation that the laws upon which the Plan is based have changed in a manner that negates the Plan's objectives, that board may not alter, amend, suspend, or terminate this Plan without the majority consent of all Directors who are Employees if that action would result either in a distribution of all Deferred Benefits in any manner other than as provided in this Plan or that would result in immediate taxation of Deferred Benefits to Participants. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Board of Directors of Crestar Financial Corporation requests a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that any amendment to the Plan, subsequent to the date the Plan became effective, does not adversely affect Deferred Benefits elected hereunder after the effective date of any such amendment, and the Internal Revenue Service declines to rule favorably on any such amendment or to rule favorably only if the Board of Directors of Crestar Financial Corporation makes amendments to the Plan not acceptable to such Board, the Board, in its sole discretion, may accelerate the distribution of part or all amounts attributable to affected Deferred Benefits hereunder.
(b) Despite Subsection 12(a), (, , "if there is a Control Change"), the Corporation must immediately make a lump-sum contribution to a trustee under a trust agreement by transferring assets with a fair-market value equal to (1) the value (determined at the nearest month end) of the Deferred Cash Accounts plus (2) the value of an amount sufficient to fund at that time payment of amounts attributable to one hundred percent of the Deferred Income Benefits when they are due plus (3) a reasonable allowance for all future administration fees. The trust agreement must contain provisions sufficient (in the opinion of either the Internal Revenue Service or counsel selected by the Corporation) to allow the Participants (or a substantial number of Participants) to continue to defer income taxation on their Deferred Benefits until they are distributed according to this Plan. In that case, the board of directors of Crestar Financial Corporation may amend the Plan only by such action as may be necessary or desirable to assure those payments to the trust fund. If the Internal Revenue Service refuses to give the required opinion on such a trust, and if counsel selected by the Corporation is of the opinion that no such trust can be created, all Deferred Benefits under this Plan must be paid to Participants in lump-sum distributions within a reasonable time after such Control Change. In all events, any such trust must provide Participants who are income-taxed on their entitlements with funds sufficient to pay the income taxes.
if there is a change in the voting control of the Corporation that the Board does not recommend to the shareholders
effective January 1, 1988
the preceding italicized language is amended to read
,
Effective April 24, 1991
Subsection
12(b)
is amended to read as follows:
(b) Despite subsection 12(a), upon a Control Change or upon unexpected taxation as described in section 5.01(d) of the Crestar Financial Corporation Outside Directors Trust Agreement, the Corporation must immediately cause a lump-sum distribution to or on behalf of each Participant from the Crestar Financial Corporation Outside Directors Trust, paying all Deferred Benefits under this Plan, according to the Crestar Financial Corporation Outside Directors Trust Agreement. In addition, each Deferred Benefit must be enhanced according to subsection 12(e) to compensate Participants for the economic loss caused by having to pay taxes earlier than expected. For these purposes, an enrolled actuary must calculate the present value, including the enhancement, of each Participant's Deferred Benefits.
Effective January 1, 1988, the following Subsection
12(c)
is added to the Plan:
(c) For purposes of this Plan, a Control Change occurs if
Control Change.
(1) any person (within the meaning of sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of Securities of Crestar Financial Corporation ("CFC") representing thirty percent or more of the combined voting power of CFC's then outstanding Securities; or
(2) during any period of two consecutive calendar years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute CFC's board of directors cease for any reason to constitute a majority of CFC's board of directors, unless the election (or the nomination for election by CFC's shareholders) of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period; and approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period; and
(3) in the case of an ownership change described in paragraph (1), a majority of the directors in office immediately before the ownership change and who are not Members determine, within ten days of the ownership change, that a Control Change has occurred.
Effective April 24, 1991, Subsection
12(c)
is amended to read as follows:
(c) . For purposes of this Plan, a Control Change occurs if any of the circumstances described in this subsection's paragraphs occurs.
Control Change
(1) Any Person, together with all Affiliates and Associates of that Person ("Person," "Affiliate," and "Associate" as defined in or under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), becomes directly or indirectly the Beneficial Owner (as defined under section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of Securities representing at least thirty percent of Crestar Financial Corporation's then outstanding Securities entitled to vote generally in the election of the Crestar Financial Corporation board of directors.
(2) During any period of two consecutive calendar years, the Continuing Directors cease for any reason to constitute a majority of Crestar Financial Corporation's board of directors. For purposes of this paragraph, means any member of the Crestar Financial Corporation board of directors if
Continuing Director
A Crestar Financial Corporation board member may not satisfy the requirements of this paragraph if that member was nominated for election or elected by board members who are elected by or recommended for election by a Person (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) described in paragraph (1) or the surviving or purchasing corporation described in paragraph (3).
(3) Crestar Financial Corporation enters into a definitive agreement to merge or consolidate Crestar Financial Corporation with or into another corporation or to sell or otherwise dispose of 50% or more of Crestar Financial Corporation's assets;
AND
Effective April 24, 1991, the following Subsection
12(d)
is added to the Plan:
(d) . The Crestar Financial Corporation Outside Directors Trust must be funded according to this subsection's two paragraphs.
Funding Policy
(1) . Upon a Control Change, the Corporation must contribute to the Crestar Financial Corporation Outside Directors Trust amounts necessary, based on the calculation required according to subsection 12(e), to fund all unfunded Deferred Benefits, including the tax equalization enhancements required according to subsection 12(e). Those required contributions may be in the form of cash or other property.
Required Contributions Upon a Control Change
(2) It is the Corporation's intent that its discretionary contributions to the Crestar Financial Corporation Outside Directors Trust be made in accordance with this funding policy, which is intended to establish guidelines for those discretionary contributions. The Compensation Committee will review discretionary contributions on an annual basis.
Discretionary Contributions Before a Control Change.
Effective April 24, 1991, the following Subsection
12(e)
is added to the Plan:
(e) . Payments described in this Plan subsection are required whenever a Participant or a Participant's Beneficiary receives a distribution of Deferred Benefits that has been made earlier than expected because of a Control Change or because of unexpected taxation as described in section 5.01(d) of the Crestar Financial Corporation Outside Directors Trust Agreement.
Payment calculation and enhancement
(1) Payments to or on behalf of a Participant according to this Plan subsection include an enhancement of that Participant's Deferred Benefits intended to allow the Participant to be in essentially the same after-tax (and after penalties) economic position as would have prevailed if the benefit distributions had occurred at the time and in the amounts otherwise expected. For purposes of this Plan section, the after-tax income just mentioned refers to income after any and all taxation (income taxes, excise taxes, and other taxes) by any taxing authority (federal, state, local, or otherwise), whether attributable to all or part of the Participant's entitlement under this Plan.
Intent.
(2) . To determine the amount of any payment due according to this Plan section, the Compensation Committee or its designee may periodically identifyand record the results of those determinations as a new or revised exhibit 12(e) to this Planthe formula deemed necessary by the Compensation Committee or its designee to quantify the payment entitlement described in the preceding paragraph, including factors such as the time at which benefits would have been paid under this Plan, investment earnings that would have accrued on funds that would have accumulated, until that benefit-payment time, and any other factor deemed important by the Compensation Committee or its designee. As provided in subsection 12(b), the Compensation committee or its designee must name an enrolled actuary (i.e., an actuary whose certification of benefit liabilities, funding, and the like would be acceptable to the Internal Revenue Service for a plan subject to Code section 412) to make independent determinations required by this Plan section. That actuary may do as much or as little investigation as the actuary deems necessary to reach its conclusions. The actuary's reasonable fees and expenses are a Plan expense and must be paid or reimbursed according to this Plan's terms. The actuary's determinations and conclusions are final unless changed by the Compensation Committee. Until the Compensation Committee causes an exhibit 12(e) to be added to this Plan, the present value of each Participant's Deferred Benefit must be calculated and adjusted, according to this paragraph's definitions, to recognize the taxation of investment return over what would have been the deferral period.
Formula for calculations
means the federal tax rate on the highest level of taxable earnings in the year of distribution.
Marginal Tax Rate (MTR)
means the state tax rate on the highest level of taxable earnings in the year of distribution.
State Marginal Tax Rate (SMTR)
means the PBGC Immediate Annuity Rate plus 1% for the month preceding the month of distribution.
Discount Rate (DR)
means the Discount Rate multiplied by the product of one minus the State Marginal Tax Rate reduced by one minus the State Marginal Tax Rate times the Marginal Tax Rate. (i.e., DR*[1-SMTR-(1-SMTR)*MTR].
Discount Rate for Premature Distribution
means the discounted value at the date of distribution of Deferred Benefits using the Discount Rate for Premature Distribution.
Present Value (PV)
(3) . The Compensation Committee or its designee must name a certified public accountant to calculate the amount of a Participant's Deferred Benefit entitlement according to this Plan subsection. The accountant's calculations must be based on the formula determined according to the preceding paragraph. The calculations and results must be communicated in writing to the Participant (or the Participant's representative) whose benefit is in question for the determination. If the Participant (or the representative, on behalf of the Participant) communicates to the Compensation Committee or its designee a written challenge to the accuracy of the calculations, the Compensation Committee or its designee may accede to the challenge or name a second certified public accountant to review the calculation and challenge; the determination of the second accountant is final. The reasonable fees and expenses of any certified public accountants named by the Compensation Committee or its designee according to this subsection are a Plan expense and must be paid or reimbursed according to this Plan's terms.
Determination of payment amounts
13. 
Health Examination.
The Corporation, acting through the Compensation Committee, reserves the right to require a health or physical examination (and establish other reasonable requirements) as a condition to accepting a Deferred Income Benefit Deferral Election Form and to modify or deny a Participant's Deferred Income Benefit and any survivors' benefits based upon the results of the examination or requirements. A Deferred Income Benefit Deferral Election Form modified or rejected after a health or physical examination must be treated according to the Member's special election on that Form.
14. 
Notices.
Notices and elections under this Plan must be in writing. A notice or election is deemed delivered if it is delivered personally or if it is mailed by registered or certified mail to the person at his last known business address.
15. 
Waiver.
The waiver of a breach of any provision in this Plan does not operate as and may not be construed as a waiver of any later breach.
16. 
Assignments.
A Participant's interest in Deferred Benefits under this Plan is not assignable by a Participant or Beneficiary. The Corporation may assign its responsibilities and obligations under this Plan to anyone with or without notice to Participants; provided, however, that the Corporation does not have the right to assign its obligation to pay Deferred Benefits, including its obligation to make a lump-sum contribution or distribution under Subsection 12(b), without the prior approval of all Participants or Beneficiaries entitled to receive benefit payments under this Plan; any attempted improper assignment is void. If such approval is granted, when a Participant receives notice that the Corporation has properly assigned one or more of its obligations under this Plan regarding that Participant, the Corporation is discharged from that obligation.
17. 
Construction.
This Plan is created, adopted, and maintained according to the laws of Virginia (except its choice-of-law rules) except to the extent that those laws are superseded by the laws of the United States of America. It is governed by those laws in all respects. Headings and captions are only for convenience; they do not have substantive meaning. If a provision of this Plan is not valid or not enforceable, that fact in no way affects the validity or enforceability of any other provision. Use of the one gender includes all, and the singular and plural include each other.
SunTrust Banks, Inc., on behalf of itself and its wholly owned subsidiary, SunTrust Bank, has caused its duly authorized officer to sign this document on this , to incorporate amendments made through December 31, 2008, to the Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors of Crestar Financial Corporation, which was originally approved as of December 6, 1982 and last restated as of December 7, 1983.
31 day of December 2008
st
SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
By: Title:
/s/ Donna D. Lange
SVP, Corporate Benefits Director

Exhibit 10.11
Page
This document is a restatement of the Crestar Financial Corporation Directors' Equity Program, originally effective as of January 1, 1996, as approved by shareholders at the duly called annual meeting of Crestar Financial Corporation ("Crestar") on April 26, 1996. This restatement also includes subsequent amendments adopted through December 31, 2008.
Effective December 31, 1998, Crestar was merged into and with SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust") and SunTrust became the sponsor of this Plan. Pursuant to the terms of the Plan, all Participants became fully vested in their Equity Award Accounts on the Control Change Date. After the merger, no additional Equity Awards were granted and after the 1998 plan year, no additional elective deferrals were allowed. The Plan as contained in this document includes the original plan with amendments adopted through 1999, when the final amendment precluded any additional deferrals.
When reviewing this document, Crestar Financial Corporation or Company should be read to mean SunTrust Banks, Inc. or its successor.
The Crestar Financial Corporation Directors' Equity Program is intended to assist the Company in promoting a greater identity of interest between the Company's non-employee directors and its shareholders and to assist the Company in attracting and retaining non-employee directors by affording Participants an opportunity to share in the future success of the Company. The Plan is also intended to constitute a deferred compensation program for corporate directors' fees.
PURPOSE
.
Effective December 20, 1996, the definition of Director was amended to read as follows:
means a duly elected or appointed member of the Board who is not an employee of the Company or an affiliate or subsidiary of the Company, excluding any member of the Board who is required to transfer, assign or pay his or her Retainer Fee to the member's employer or firm.
Director
Effective September 26, 1997, the definition of Director was amended to read as follows:
means a duly elected or appointed member of he Board who is not an employee of he Company or an affiliate or subsidiary of the Company, excluding any member of the Board who is required to transfer, assign or pay his or her benefits under the Plan to a the member's employer or firm.
Director
Effective as of 10/23/98, this definition was amended to read as follows:
, , or , with respect to a Participant, means cessation of his or her relationship with the Company as a member of the Board and cessation of his or her relationship with Crestar Bank as a member of the Crestar Bank board of directors.
Terminate
Terminating
Termination
Each Participant's interest in his or her Equity Award Account shall be 100% vested and nonforfeitable as of a Control Change Date (as such term is defined in the Crestar Financial Corporation 1993 Stock Incentive Plan).
7. 
DISTRIBUTION
8. 
HARDSHIP DISTRIBUTIONS
.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, SunTrust Banks, Inc. has caused this restated Plan to be executed by its duly authorized officer on the 31 day of December 2008.
st
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
By: /s/ Donna D. Lange Title: SVP, Corporate Benefits Director

Exhibit 10.12
WHEREAS, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Corporation") currently maintains a number of stock plans, many of which were inherited from predecessors as a result of mergers and acquisitions and the names of which are listed on the Exhibit I appended hereto and incorporated herein by reference; and
WHEREAS, there may be outstanding grants of stock, options, SARs, restricted stock or some other form of equity award; and
WHEREAS, the Corporation now considers it desirable to amend the Plans to meet the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended);
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that each of the Plans list on Exhibit I is hereby amended, effective as of January 1, 2009, to add an Appendix A to read as follows:
1. . To the extent that amounts payable under this Plan are subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A, the Plan is intended to comply with such section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (collectively, "Section 409A"). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention.
409A Compliance
2. . No provision of the Plan (including any change in control provisions) shall affect the time or form of payment of any Stock Unit or other award under the Plan which is subject to Section 409A. And the grantee of a Stock Unit or other award under the Plan which is subject to Section 409A shall not be permitted to reduce the number of shares in his award or grant to satisfy the grantee's tax withholding obligations.
Effect on Stock Units and Other Awards Subject to 409A
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this amendment to be executed this day of December, 2008.
31
st
SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
By: Name: Title:
/s/ Donna D. Lange
Donna D. Lange
SVP, Corporate Benefits Director
EXHIBIT I

Exhibit 10.13
WHEREAS, SunTrust Bank (the "Corporation") currently maintains the Crestar Financial Corporation Deferred Compensation Program Under Incentive Compensation Plan of Crestar Financial Corporation and Affiliated Corporations (the "Plan"), originally approved as of December 6, 1982 and established by United Virginia Bankshares, predecessor to Crestar Financial Corporation ("Crestar");
WHEREAS, the Corporation now considers it desirable to amend the Plan to meet the applicable requirements of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended) (the "Code");
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Plan is hereby amended effective as of January 1, 2009, to add an Appendix A to read as follows:
1. . The terms of the Plan in effect on October 3, 2004 shall govern the time and form of distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A (the "Grandfathered Benefits").
Pre-2005 Deferrals
2. . To the extent that benefits under the Plan are subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A ("409A Benefits"), the Plan is intended to comply with such section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention. The terms of this Appendix A shall apply to distributions of any 409A Benefits and not Grandfathered Benefits. Any provision of the Plan not in this Appendix that addresses distribution of benefits shall not apply to 409A Benefits.
409A Compliance
3. . Subject to Paragraph 4, a Participant's 409A Benefits, if any, shall be distributed in a lump sum within 30 days of the Participant's Separation from Service.
Distributions
4. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that a Participant is a Key Employee as of the date of his Separation from Service, his lump sum distribution shall be paid in the seventh month following the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, in the month after the Participant's death).
Key Employee Delay
5. . If the Participant's benefits under the Plan are includible in income pursuant to Code section 409A, such benefits shall be distributed immediately to the Participant.
Effect of Early Taxation
6. . No amendment of the Plan shall apply to Grandfathered Benefits, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Code section 409A to the Grandfathered Benefits. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of 409A Benefits shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in this Appendix, unless the Corporation determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination in accordance with the requirements under Code section 409A.
409A Requirements on Amendment or Termination
7. . All capitalized terms used in this Appendix and not defined herein shall have the same meaning as in the Plan. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Appendix whenever such capitalized terms are used:
Definitions
(a) . Key Employee means an employee treated as a "specified employee" as of his Separation from Service under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) (i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to Section (5) thereof)) if the common stock of the Corporation or an affiliate is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Code section 409A using a December 31 identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the 12-month period beginning on the April 1 following the identification date.
Key Employee
(b) . Separation from Service or Separates from Service means a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code section 409A.
Separation from Service

Exhibit 10.14
WHEREAS, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Corporation") currently maintains the SunTrust Banks Inc. 2004 Stock Plan (the "Plan");
WHEREAS, the Corporation now considers it desirable to amend the Plan to meet the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended);
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Plan is hereby amended, effective as of January 1, 2009, to add an Appendix A to read as follows:
1. . To the extent that amounts payable under this Plan are subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A, the Plan is intended to comply with such section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (collectively, "Section 409A"). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention.
409A Compliance
2. . No provision of the Plan (including Section 12) shall affect the time or form of payment of any Stock Unit or other award under the Plan which is subject to Section 409A. And the grantee of a Stock Unit or other award under the Plan which is subject to Section 409A shall not be permitted the withholding election described in Section 14.
Effect on Stock Units and Other Awards Subject to 409A
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this amendment to be executed this 31 day of December, 2008.
st
SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
By: /s/ Donna D. Lange Name: Donna D. Lange Title: SVP, Corporate Benefits Director


