FILE:STI/STI-8K-20100823131833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On August 23, 2010, SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Registrant") announced the final results of the cash tender offer (the "Tender Offer") by SunTrust Bank to purchase up to $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of certain of its currently outstanding subordinated debt securities. A copy of the news release announcing the results of the Tender Offer is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
All information in the news release speaks as of the date thereof and the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update said information in the future. In addition, the Registrant disclaims any inference regarding the materiality of such information which otherwise may arise as a result of its furnishing such information under this item of this report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
August 23, 2010
ATLANTA SunTrust Banks, Inc. (NYSE: STI) announced today the final results of SunTrust Bank's cash tender offer (the "Tender Offer") to purchase up to $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount (the "Maximum Tender Amount") of certain of its currently outstanding subordinated debt securities (the "Notes"). The Tender Offer expired at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on August 20, 2010.
The total principal amount of Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn was $947,586,000, which exceeded the Maximum Tender Amount. Since SunTrust Bank (the "Company") has accepted for payment only such portion of the Notes that does not result in purchasing Notes with an aggregate principal amount above the Maximum Tender Amount, the Company has accepted for purchase all $244,965,000 in principal amount of validly tendered Notes in Acceptance Priority Level 1, $505,035,000 of principal amount of validly tendered Notes in Acceptance Priority Level 2 and no Notes in Acceptance Priority Level 3, in accordance with the terms set forth in the Offer to Purchase dated July 26, 2010. The pro-ration factor for Notes in Acceptance Priority Level 2 is 0.847421. All Notes validly tendered and not accepted will be returned to investors as soon as possible. Settlement will occur today; accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the settlement date will be paid in cash on all validly tendered and accepted Notes.
 
 
Note. Pursuant to the terms to the Offer to Purchase, the Company will not purchase any 7.25% Subordinated Notes Due 2018 and, accordingly, no information is given with respect to these notes.
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and UBS Securities LLC acted as joint dealer managers for the Tender Offer. Global Bondholder Services Corporation acted as Information Agent. Contact information for the dealer managers and the Information Agent is listed on the back cover of the Offer to Purchase.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell with respect to any securities.
Important Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain forward-looking statements. Statements regarding the expected execution and timing of the Tender Offer are forward-looking statements. Also, any statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking statement. These statements often include the words "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "targets," "initiatives," "potentially," "probably," "projects," "outlook," or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as "may," "will," "should," "would," and "could." Forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of management and on information currently available to management. Such statements speak as of the date hereof, and we do not assume any obligation to update the statements made herein or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future events.
Forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on such statements. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our 10-K and in other periodic reports that we file with the SEC.
About SunTrust
SunTrust Banks, Inc., headquartered in Atlanta, is one of the nation's largest banking organizations, serving a broad range of consumer, commercial, corporate and institutional clients. As of June 30, 2010, SunTrust had total assets of $170.7 billion and total deposits of $118.7 billion. The Company operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high-growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states and a full array of technology-based, 24-hour delivery channels. The Company also serves clients in selected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit, trust and investment services. Through various subsidiaries the Company provides mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage, investment management, equipment leasing and investment banking services. SunTrust's Internet address is suntrust.com.


