FILE:STI/STI-8K-20110106162834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Compensation Plan Amendments. SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Company" or the "Registrant") adopted certain amendments on December 31, 2010 to the following compensation plans in which its named executive officers participate or may participate in the future. The changes generally pertain to either the closing of the SERP to new participants, the expansion of eligibility requirements for certain nonqualified plans, and various conforming changes to the nonqualified plans consistent with changes made to the qualified retirement plan. The following summaries of these amendments are qualified in their entirety by reference to each respective agreement, as amended, each of which is filed as an exhibit to this report and incorporated into this report by reference. In addition, the Registrant disclaims any inference regarding the materiality of such information which otherwise may arise as a result of its filing such information in this report on Form 8-K. SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. The Company amended and restated this plan, effective January 1, 2011, to reflect changes to the definition of "eligible employee" by offering the plan to employees who participate in the Management Incentive Plan and are of a certain minimum salary grade (providing for broader participation than previously), to provide that participants earning benefits under the Restoration Plan (see below) will receive a Company contribution under this plan based on the participants eligible compensation under the Restoration Plan. The amendment also provides that Company contributions made on behalf of participants hired on or after January 1, 2011 will be subject to a two-year cliff vesting schedule (to be consistent with the qualified 401(k) plan). The Committee also amended the Plan to address SERP benefits transferred to this plan in the case of an employee who has a status change and is no longer eligible to participate in the SERP. SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Plan. The Company amended and restated this plan, effective January 1, 2010 (except as otherwise indicated) so that it would be consistent with certain changes made to the qualified retirement plan as follows: revised the definition of compensation for benefit purposes, changed the death benefits for active participants from a 50% joint and survivor benefit to a 100% joint and survivor benefit, and provided that beginning in 2011 newly eligible participants with only a Personal Pension Account under the qualified retirement plan will receive their benefit upon separation from service rather than age 55. This plan was also amended to change the eligibility requirements. Prior to 2011, an employee became eligible under the plan upon designation by the Compensation Committee. The plan was amended, effective 2011, to provide that employees of a certain salary grade automatically participate in the plan upon the completion of one year of service. SunTrust Banks, Inc. Restoration Plan. On December 31, 2010, the Company adopted t he SunTrust Banks, Inc. Restoration Plan (the "Restoration Plan") effective January 1, 2011. Like the ERISA Excess Plan, the Restoration Plan is a nonqualified defined benefit cash balance plan designed to restore benefits to certain employees that are limited under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code which are not otherwise provided for under the ERISA Excess Plan. In order to be eligible for the Restoration Plan, an employee generally must be of a certain minimum salary grade, must be recommended by the CEO, and be approved by the Compensation Committee. The benefit formula under the Restoration Plan is the same as the Personal Pension Account under the qualified retirement plan. The purpose of the plan is to restore such benefits to the extent limited by the Internal Revenue Code or limits in the Excess Plan. A participant will be 100% vested in his Restoration Plan benefit after completing ten (10) years of service and attaining age sixty (60). Restoration Plan benefits will be paid as a lump sum up on separation from service following satisfaction of the vesting requirements unless the participant previously elected to receive the benefit as of the annuity forms of payment under the plan. None of the Companys named executive officers will participate in the Restoration Plan in 2011. SunTrust Banks, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. The Company amended and restated this plan, effective January 1, 2010 (except as otherwise indicated) to clarify the calculation of Tier 2 benefits, change the death benefits for Tier 2 active participants from a 50% joint and survivor benefit to a 100% joint and survivor benefit (to be consistent with changes made to the qualified retirement plan) and to address the treatment of SERP benefits in the case of an employee who has a status change and is no longer eligible to participate in the plan. Other Compensation Agreements. 2011 Form of Salary Share Agreement. The Compensation Committee amended the form of Salary Share Awar d Agreement effective January 1, 2011. The new form imposes a single holding period, and extends the holding period for new grants to March 15, 2012. Form of Change In Control Agreement. The Compensation Committee adopted a revised form of Change in Control Agreement for use with new participants. This form of agreement is revised to omit any tax gross-up.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
10.1 SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2011. 10.2 SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2010. 10.3 SunTrust Banks, Inc. Restoration Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2011. 10.4 SunTrust Banks, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2010. 10.5 2011 Form of SunTrust Banks, Inc. Salary Share Award Agreement. 10.6 Form of SunTrust Banks, Inc. Change in Control Agreement (without excise tax gross up).
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

The SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan is hereby amended and restated effective January 1, 2011 (the "Plan"), and except as otherwise specifically noted, continues to provide a nonqualified and unfunded deferred compensation program to Eligible Employees pursuant to the terms and provisions set forth below, as subsequently amended from time to time. The Plan, as amended and restated in this document, reflects certain design changes adopted in 2010. In addition, the Plan was previously amended and restated effective January 1, 2010 to reflect authorized design changes in connection with the December 31, 2009 merger of the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Excess Plan (the "401(k) Excess Plan") and the prior SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Prior Deferred Compensation Plan"), which were both previously amended and restated effective January 1, 2009 for compliance with section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code").
SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust") originally established the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan effective October 1, 1999, by combining and restating the SunTrust Management Incentive Plan Deferred Compensation Plan Fund (the "MIP Fund") and the SunTrust Performance Unit Plan Deferred Compensation Plan (the "PUP Fund"). All accounts in the MIP Fund and PUP Fund existing as of September 30, 1999 became subject to the terms of the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan. The Prior Deferred Compensation Plan was established to provide a single deferred compensation plan as the means whereby participants in the SunTrust Management Incentive Plan ("MIP") and the SunTrust Performance Unit Plan ("PUP") could defer receipt of all or a portion of their MIP awards and PUP awards as well as future awards provided by certain select bonus and incentive programs.
SunTrust established the 401(k) Excess Plan to provide benefits to certain highly compensated employees that were not otherwise allowed under SunTrust's qualified 401(k) plan due to the limitations of Code sections 401(a)(17), 402(g) and 415(c). Effective July 1, 1999, the Crestar Additional Nonqualified Executive Plan (the "ANEX Plan"), a deferral plan similar to the 401(k) Excess Plan, was merged into the 401(k) Excess Plan and the existing account balances attributable to both the 401(k) Excess Plan and the ANEX Plan as of June 30, 1999, were frozen as to future contributions and renamed the "Excess Plan Frozen Balance" and the "ANEX Frozen Balance," respectively.
The terms of the Plan, as set forth herein, shall govern the deferral and distribution of Eligible Income (as defined below) earned after 2009 with respect to services performed on and after January 1, 2010. In addition, the distribution of all amounts earned prior to 2010 and deferred under the 401(k) Excess Plan or the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan, including the benefits under the prior plans as described above, shall be made in accordance with the terms of the 401(k) Excess Plan and the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect immediately prior to the merger of these two plans on December 31, 2009, including any "grandfathered amounts" that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under each plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) (the "Grandfathered Amounts"). Benefits earned under the 401(k) Excess Plan and the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan prior to 2010 have been maintained in separate accounts. As provided by the Plan Administrator, all amounts credited under the Plan, including amounts credited under the 401(k) Excess Plan and the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan prior to 2010, shall be subject to the investment provisions set forth in Article 4. The relevant terms of the 401(k) Excess Plan and the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan, including the provisions relating to the Grandfathered Amounts, on December 31, 2009 are summarized in Addenda A and B, respectively.
The Plan is intended (1) to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (except with respect to any Grandfathered Amounts), (2) to be "a plan which is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA, and (3) to comply with certain other regulatory requirements imposed upon SunTrust and its Affiliates, as described in Section 9.12. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with these intentions.
The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Article 2 whenever such capitalized terms are used throughout this Plan (except for Addenda A and B):
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant is subject to the terms of a change in control agreement with SunTrust (the "Change in Control Agreement") at the time of his termination of employment with SunTrust or an Affiliate, solely for purposes of such Participant's benefits under the Plan, "Cause" shall have the meaning provided in the Change in Control Agreement.
Eligible Income deferred by a Participant under the Plan shall be credited to the Participant's Account as soon as practicable after the amounts would have otherwise been paid to the Participant.
Subject to the limitation above, each Participant's Company Contribution Account shall be credited with Company Contributions as earned on a pay period basis after the total of such Participant's Eligible Income from SunTrust or an Affiliate reaches the annual compensation limit under Code section 401(a)(17) for the Plan Year.
Executed this day of December, 2010.
      
Title: Title:
      
      
H:\015100\00020\STI DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN (2011 RESTATEMENT)V5  FINAL.DOC
D
The following provisions in this Addendum A summarize the distribution and certain other rules in effect during the stated periods under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Excess Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009 (the "401(k) Excess Plan"). However, nothing in this Addendum A shall change or alter the terms of the 401(k) Excess Plan in effect as of any date. All capitalized terms in this Addendum A shall be defined in accordance with the terms of the 401(k) Excess Plan as in effect immediately prior to the plan merger with the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Prior Deferred Compensation Plan") on December 31, 2009, and all Section references in this Addendum A shall refer to Sections in this Addendum A or the Section of the 401(k) Excess Plan in effect as of a certain date.
Distribution of amounts deferred (and earnings thereon) under the 401(k) Excess Plan that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A) prior to 2005 and that are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A (the "401(k) Excess Plan Grandfathered Amounts") shall be made in accordance with the terms of the 401(k) Excess Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004, and as summarized in Part A1 of this Addendum A.
Distribution of amounts deferred (and earnings thereon) under the 401(k) Excess Plan that were earned for services performed during the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2009 ("401(k) Excess Plan 2005-2009 Amounts") shall be made in accordance with the terms of the 401(k) Excess Plan as in effect immediately prior to the plan merger with the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan on December 31, 2009, and as summarized in Part A2 of this Addendum A.
If a Participant dies after having received one or more installments but before all installment payments have been made, the remaining annual installment payments shall be paid to his Beneficiary at the same time they would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. The Beneficiary may request an accelerated payment in the form of a lump-sum cash payment by making a written request to the Compensation Committee prior to the January 1 of the calendar year in which the benefit will be paid. The Compensation Committee has sole discretion and authority to approve or deny the Beneficiary's request.
The following provisions in this Addendum B summarize the distribution and certain other rules in effect during the stated periods under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated effective January 1, 2009 (the "Prior Deferred Compensation Plan"). However, nothing in this Addendum B shall change or alter the terms of the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan in effect as of any date. All capitalized terms in this Addendum B shall be defined in accordance with the terms of the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect immediately prior to the plan merger with the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Excess Plan (the "401(k) Excess Plan") on December 31, 2009, and all Section references in this Addendum B shall refer to Sections in this Addendum B or the Section of the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan in effect as of a certain date.
Distribution of amounts deferred (and earnings thereon) under the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A) prior to 2005 and that are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A (the "Prior Deferred Compensation Plan Grandfathered Amounts") shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004, and as summarized in Part B1 of this Addendum B.
Distribution of amounts deferred (and earnings thereon) under the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan that were earned for services performed during the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2009 or that were earned for services prior to 2005 and vested after 2004 (the "Prior Deferred Compensation Plan 2005-2009 Amounts") shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Prior Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect immediately prior to the plan merger with the 401(k) Excess Plan on December 31, 2009, and as summarized in Part B2 of this Addendum B.
A Participant's Award to which an in-service distribution election applies pursuant to this Section B1-6.3 shall be maintained as a sub-account of the Participant's Account unless all of the Participant's Awards deferred pursuant to this Plan are subject to an in-service distribution election with the same Designated Distribution Date. Awards deferred and not subject to an in-service distribution election are distributed pursuant to Section B1-6.1 or B1-6.2.
If a Participant dies after having received one or more installment payments but before all installment payments have been made, the remaining annual installment payments shall be paid to his Beneficiary at the same time they would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. The Beneficiary may request an accelerated payment in the form of a lump-sum cash payment by making a written request to the Committee prior to the January 1 of the calendar year in which the benefit will be paid. The Committee has sole discretion and authority to approve or deny the Beneficiary's request.
H:\015100\00020\2011 DCP SUNTRUST ADDENDA.DOC

(a) Excess Plan Participant Before 2008 Receiving
Traditional Benefit 4
(b) Excess Plan Participant Before 2008 Receiving
PPA Benefit 5
(c) Excess Plan Participant After 2007 Receiving
Traditional Benefit 5
(d) Excess Plan Participant After 2007 Receiving
PPA Benefit 5
(e) Tier 1 Participants Receiving Excess Plan
(1) Excess Plan Participant Before 2008
Receiving Traditional Benefit 12
(2) Excess Plan Participant Before 2008
Receiving PPA Benefit 12
(3) Excess Plan Participant After 2007
Receiving Traditional Benefit 13 (4) Excess Plan Participant After 2007
(4) Excess Plan Participant After 2007
(b) Initial Distribution Election for Newly
SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the "Corporation") hereby amends and restates the SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Retirement Plan (the "Plan"), effective as of January 1, 2010. This Plan was originally effective as of August 13, 1996. The purpose of this Plan is to restore to certain executives of the Corporation and its Affiliates those retirement benefits that cannot be paid from the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan ("Retirement Plan") as a result of the limitations imposed by sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code").
The Plan is amended and restated in this document, effective as of January 1, 2010. It is intended to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (except with respect to amounts covered by ). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention.
Appendix B
All capitalized terms used in this Plan and not defined in this document (including an Appendix) shall have the same meaning as in the Corporation's Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Article 2 whenever such capitalized terms are used throughout this Plan:
(a) the Participant's willful and continued failure to perform his job duties in a satisfactory manner after written notice from the Corporation to Participant and a thirty (30) day period in which to cure such failure;
(b) the Participant's conviction of a felony or engagement in a dishonest act, misappropriation of funds, embezzlement, criminal conduct or common law fraud;
(c) the Participant's material violation of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics of the Corporation or the Code of Conduct of an Affiliate;
(d) the Participant's engagement in an act that materially damages or materially prejudices the Corporation or an Affiliate or the Participant's engagement in activities materially damaging to the property, business or reputation of the Corporation or an Affiliate; or
(e) the Participant's failure and refusal to comply in any material respect with the current and any future amended policies, standards and regulations of the Corporation, any Affiliate and their regulatory agencies, if such failure continues after written notice from the Corporation to the Participant and a thirty (30) day period in which to cure such failure, or the determination by any such governing agency that the Participant may no longer serve as an officer of the Corporation or an Affiliate.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant is subject to the terms of a change in control agreement with the Corporation (the "Change in Control Agreement") at the time of his termination of employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate, solely for purposes of such Participant's benefits under the Plan, "Cause" shall have the meaning provided in the Change in Control Agreement.
(a) A Participant in this Plan with an accrued Excess Benefit at December 31, 2007, who accrues a benefit under the Retirement Plan after 2007 under the Traditional Benefit formula has an Excess Benefit in this Plan equal to the sum of:
Excess Plan Participant Before 2008 Receiving Traditional Benefit.
The Excess Plan Traditional Benefit is calculated using actual service and base salary (or benefits base), if applicable, each as recognized under the terms of the Retirement Plan.
(b) A Participant in this Plan with an accrued Excess Benefit at December 31, 2007, who accrues a benefit under the Retirement Plan after 2007 under the PPA Benefit formula has an Excess Benefit in this Plan equal to the sum of:
Excess Plan Participant Before 2008 Receiving PPA Benefit.
Notwithstanding anything in the Retirement Plan to the contrary, for purposes of this Section 2.14(b), a Participant who is named on and who would otherwise have PPA Compensation in the 2010 Plan Year that is less than the Annual Compensation Limit shall have his PPA Compensation include the dollar amount set forth by the Participant's name in for 2010 up to the Annual Compensation Limit. Such dollar amount represents the value of "salary shares" that the Committee has denominated as part of each such Participant's 2010 base salary to be used in calculating benefits under this Plan.
Appendix C
Appendix C
(c) A Participant who enters this Plan after 2007 and who accrues a benefit under the Retirement Plan after 2007 under the Traditional Benefit formula has an Excess Benefit based on the Traditional Benefit formula beginning on the date of the Participant's commencement of participation in this Plan. The Excess Benefit and the offset Retirement Plan benefit will be calculated using the Participant's actual service earned beginning on the date of participation in this Plan and base salary (or benefits base, if applicable) earned both before and after the date of participation in this Plan.
Excess Plan Participant After 2007 Receiving Traditional Benefit.
(d) A Participant who enters this Plan after 2007 and who accrues a benefit under the Retirement Plan after 2007 under the PPA Benefit formula has an Excess Plan PPA Benefit based on pay credits earned beginning on the date of the Participant's commencement of participation in this Plan and total years of vesting service with the Corporation and its Affiliates earned before, during and after participation in this Plan. The PPA Benefit offset which is used to calculate the Excess Plan PPA Benefit is also calculated using pay credits earned beginning on the date of participation in this Plan and total years of vesting service. Notwithstanding anything in the Retirement Plan to the contrary, for purposes of this Section 2.14(d), a Participant who is named on and who would otherwise have PPA Compensation in the 2010 Plan Year that is less than the Annual Compensation Limit shall have his PPA Compensation include the dollar amount set forth by the Participant's name in for 2010 up to the Annual Compensation Limit. Such dollar amount represents the value of "salary             shares" that the Committee has denominated as part of each such Participant's 2010 base salary to be used in calculating benefits under this Plan.
Excess Plan Participant After 2007 Receiving PPA Benefit.
Appendix C
Appendix C
(e) A Tier 1 Participant who began participating in this Plan before 2008 and who accrues benefits under the Traditional Benefit formula under the Retirement Plan after 2007 has an Excess Benefit in this Plan based on the sum of the following:
Tier 1 Participant Receiving Excess Plan Traditional Benefit.
The Excess Plan Traditional Benefit is calculated using actual service and base salary (or benefits base), if applicable. The Annual Compensation Limit does not apply to Tier 1 Participants.
2.20 means the period of delay in distribution set forth in Section 4.4.
Key Employee Delay
2.25 means the calendar year.
Plan Year
2.31 means each Participant listed on .
Tier 1 Participant
Appendix A
The distribution provisions of this Article 4 shall apply only to amounts subject to Code section 409A. Distribution rules applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are summarized in .
Appendix B
(a) In the event the Participant's Separation from Service occurs first:
Separation from Service.
(b) In the event a Participant's Disability occurs first, payment shall be made in the month after the date the Participant attains age sixty-five (65).
Disability.
(a) Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, in the event of the death of the Participant after his or her Vested Date and before any benefit payments under the Plan have been made to the Participant, the amount of the pre-retirement death benefit determined below in Section 4.5(b) will be distributed to the Participant's Beneficiary in a lump sum in the month after the date of the Participant's death (provided that any payments that would occur before such month shall be paid as scheduled). In the event of the death of the Participant after any benefit payments have been made in a form elected by the Participant under Sections 4.6 or 4.7, death benefits under the Plan will be payable to the Participant's Beneficiary only to the extent provided under the form of distribution elected by the Participant.
Payment of Death Benefit.
(b) Effective January 1, 2008, for all Participants who are vested and die before receiving any benefit payments under this Plan, the survivor benefit payable under this Plan based on the Excess Benefit other than Grandfathered Amounts shall be determined as follows:
Calculation of Pre-Retirement Death Benefit.
(a) Notwithstanding any prior elections or Plan provisions to the contrary, a Participant who was an employee of the Corporation and its Affiliates (including on a paid leave of absence) may have made an election to receive all or a specified portion of his or her Excess Benefit in any permitted form of payment provided in Section 4.8(b). Any such election must have become irrevocable on or before December 31, 2008 and must have been made in accordance with the procedures and distribution rules established by the Committee and rules under Code section 409A. If elected, any benefit paid in a form other than a life only annuity shall be Actuarially Equivalent to the life only annuity benefit that would have been paid to such Participant.
Special One-Time Election.
(b) Effective January 1, 2011, if an individual becomes a Newly Eligible Employee, the Committee, or its delegate, has the sole discretion to determine whether such individual may file an initial distribution election for the Excess Benefit under the Plan. Under certain limited circumstances, the Newly Eligible Employee may elect the form of payment from among the forms provided in Section 4.8(b) for the payment of the Excess Benefit in accordance with the procedures established by the Committee, provided such election is delivered to the Committee no later than thirty (30) days after the first day of the calendar year immediately following the first year such Newly Eligible Employee accrues a benefit under the Plan in accordance with Treas. Reg.  1.409A-2(a)(7)(iii). In the event of an initial distribution election under this Section 4.6(b), such election shall apply to the entire Excess Benefit under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 4.6(b) shall not apply to a Newly Eligible Employee who (1) is receiving salary shares in the first year he accrues a benefit under the Plan, or (2) terminates from employment with the Corporation and its Affiliates prior to making an election under this section.
Initial Distribution Election for Newly Eligible Employee.
(a) The election may not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made;
(b) In the case of an election to change the time or form of a distribution under Section 4.3, a distribution may not be made earlier than at least five (5) years from the date the distribution would have otherwise been made; and
(c) In the case of an election to change the time or form of a distribution related to a payment at a specified time or pursuant to a fixed schedule, the election must be made at least twelve (12) months before the date the distribution is scheduled to be paid.
Any election (including changes solely among the Annuity Options) with respect to the form of payment under the Plan after the Participant's third Subsequent Deferral Election shall be null and void and have no force or effect. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Subsequent Deferral Election solely to change the form of payment from one Annuity Option to another Annuity Option listed in Section 4.8(b) shall not be subject to the conditions set forth in Sections 4.7(a)-(c) above. In the event any portion of the Excess Benefit is ultimately payable in a lump sum after the Participant made one or more Subsequent Deferral Elections under this Section 4.7, interest shall accrue on such portion during the period commencing on the Participant's Separation from Service and ending on the date of payment at the same rate as would accrue on the Personal Pension Account under the Retirement Plan until such amount is paid or commences under this Article 4.
(a) Lump sum; or
(b) One of the following Annuity Options the payments under which shall be determined as the Actuarial Equivalent of the single life annuity; provided, however, the options listed in (3)  (6) are only available on or after a Participant's Earliest Retirement Date (as defined in the Retirement Plan):
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may make any payments under this Plan subject to forfeiture on such terms and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances to protect the interests of the Corporation. Further, if the Participant is terminated from employment with the Corporation or one of its Affiliates for Cause, the Committee in its discretion may forfeit entirely any benefits payable under this Plan. Forfeiture under this Article 5 shall be in addition to any other remedies which may be available to the Corporation or an Affiliate at law or in equity.
All benefits payable under the terms of this Plan shall be paid by the Corporation from its general assets. No person shall have any right or interest or claim whatsoever to the payment of a benefit under this Plan from any person whomsoever other than the Corporation, and no Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right or interest whatsoever to the payment of a benefit under this Plan which is superior in any manner to the right of any other general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation.
Participation in this Plan does not grant to any individual the right to remain an employee of the Corporation or any Affiliate for any specific term of employment or in any specific capacity or at any specific rate of compensation.
A Participant, a spouse or a Beneficiary under this Plan shall have no right or power whatsoever to alienate, commute, anticipate or otherwise assign at law or equity all or any portion of any benefit otherwise payable under this Plan, and the Corporation shall have the right, in the event of any such action, to terminate permanently the payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, any Participant, spouse or Beneficiary who attempts to do so.
The Corporation intends that this Plan come within the various exceptions and exemptions to ERISA for a plan maintained for a "select group of management or highly compensated employees" as described in ERISA sections 201(2), 301(a) (3), and 401(a) (1), and any ambiguities in this Plan shall be construed to affect that intent.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of the Plan shall apply to the Grandfathered Amounts, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Code section 409A to the Grandfathered Amounts.
Executed this day of December, 2010.
      
The following list of Participants each shall be a Tier 1 Participant:
Distribution of Grandfathered Amounts shall be made in accordance with the Plan terms as in effect on October 3, 2004 (the "Grandfathered Terms") and as summarized in this . Capitalized terms used in this , but not defined herein, will have the same meaning as defined by the Plan in effect on October 3, 2004.
Appendix B
Appendix B
B.1 .
Timing and Amount
B.2 .
Form of Benefit
B.3 .
Survivor Benefit
B.4 .
Administration, Amendment and Termination
The Committee shall have all powers necessary to administer this Plan, to amend this Plan from time to time in any respect whatsoever and to terminate this Plan at any time; provided, however, that any such amendment or termination shall not be applied retroactively to deprive a Participant of benefits accrued under this Plan to the date of such amendment or termination. The Committee also shall have the power to delegate the exercise of all or any part of such powers to such other person or persons as the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances. This Plan shall be binding on any successor in interest to the Corporation.
On December 30, 2009, the Committee approved "salary shares" as part of the 2010 base salary for certain designated executives and directed that a portion of the value of such "salary shares" be recognized as base salary for purposes of calculating benefits under certain employee benefit plans, including this Plan. Accordingly, the following rules apply to the executives named in the table below who are Participants in the 2010 calendar year.
For purposes of calculating the Excess Benefit under Section 2.14(b) or Section 2.14(d), each Participant named in the table below who receives "salary shares" in 2010 as part of his base salary shall have the dollar amount set forth by his name included as part of his PPA Compensation. Such dollar value shall be pro rated, restricted or limited to the extent required by the terms of the Plan in calculating the Excess Benefit. Except as provided below, the Plan shall not recognize any additional amount of, or value for, "salary shares."
H:\015100\PLAN DOCUMENTS\NONQUALIFIED PLANS\RESTATED PLANS\ERISA EXCESS PLAN\2010 ERISA EXCESS PLAN RESTATEMENTV4  FINAL.DOC

The SunTrust Restoration Plan is hereby adopted effective January 1, 2011 by SunTrust Banks, Inc. to provide supplemental retirement benefits to Eligible Employees pursuant to the terms and provisions set forth below.
The Plan is intended (1) to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder, and (2) to be "a plan which is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with these intentions.
All capitalized terms used in this Plan and not defined in this document shall have the same meaning as in the Qualified Plan. Wherever used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth:
"" means the bookkeeping account established by the Company for each Participant in the Plan. A Participant's Account shall be utilized solely as a device for the determination and measurement of the amount of the Restoration Benefit to be paid to the Participant pursuant to this Plan. A Participant's Account shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind.
Account
"" means any corporation or other entity that is treated as a single employer with the Company under section 414 of the Code.
Affiliate
"" means the limit equal to the product of two (2) times the limit under Code section 401(a)(17) in effect for the Plan Year.
Annual Compensation Limit
"" means one of the Actuarial Equivalent annuity forms set forth in Section 4.6(b).
Annuity Option
"" means the date a Participant (or his beneficiary in the case of death) is first scheduled to receive a payment of the Restoration Benefit accrued under the Plan.
Benefit Commencement Date
"" means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
CEO
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" means the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors or such other committee as may be appointed by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Committee
"" means SunTrust Banks, Inc. or any successor corporation or other entity.
Company
"" means the amount an Eligible Employee's compensation for a Plan Year determined as the difference between (1) the Eligible Employee's PPA Compensation for the Plan Year but determined without regard to the limitation imposed under Code section 401(a)(17), minus (2) the Annual Compensation Limit for such Plan Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during a Newly Hired Eligible Employee's first year of participation in the Plan, the amount of Compensation shall be determined under subsection (1) of the immediately preceding sentence without regard to the Annual Compensation Limit. The Plan will not prorate the Annual Compensation Limit for a Participant who participates in the Plan for less than a full Plan Year.
Compensation
"" means the applicable semi-monthly period from the first day of a calendar month through the 15th of the month, or from the 16th of the month through the last day of the month.
Crediting Period
"" means the date of an Employee's first day of active employment with the Company or an Affiliate.
Date of Hire
"" means a Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant's employer and, in addition, has begun to receive benefits under SunTrust's Long-Term Disability Plan. The Participant will not be entitled to disability benefits under Section 3.4 if his impairment was caused by military service; an act of war, riot or civil insurrection; or employment with or service for any entity other than the Company or an Affiliate.
Disabled
"" means an Employee, generally, in Grade 57 or higher, who is recommended by the CEO, and who is approved by the Committee for participation in the Plan. The approval of the Committee regarding whether an Employee is an Eligible Employee shall be final and binding for all Plan purposes.
Eligible Employee
"" means an individual who is a regular employee on the U.S. payroll of the Company or its Affiliates. The term "Employee" shall not include a person hired as an independent contractor, leased employee, consultant, or a person otherwise designated by the Company or an Affiliate as not eligible to participate in the Plan, even if such person is determined to be an "employee" of the Company or an Affiliate by any governmental or judicial authority.
Employee
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
"" means an initial distribution election regarding the form of payment of a Particiapnt's Restoration Benefit pursuant to Section 4.5(a).
Initial Distribution Election
"" mean the credits made to Participants' Accounts, as such term is defined in Section 3.3.
Interest Credits
"" means an Employee treated as a "specified employee" as of his Separation from Service under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) (, a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to section (5) thereof)) if the common stock of the Company or an Affiliate is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Code section 409A using a December 31 identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the twelve (12) month period beginning on the April 1 following the identification date.
Key Employee
i.e.
"" means an individual who is hired by the Company or an Affiliate, who is not a current or former Employee and who meets the criteria for an Eligible Employee on his Date of Hire.
Newly Hired Eligible Employee
"" means an Eligible Employee with an accrued benefit under the Plan.
Participant
"" mean the credits made to Participants' Accounts, as such term is defined in Section 3.2.
Pay Credits
"" means the SunTrust Restoration Plan, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.
Plan
"" means the party responsible for administering the Plan, or its delegate, as provided in Section 5.1.
Plan Administrator
"" means the calendar year.
Plan Year
"" means the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan, as amended and restated from time to time, and any successor plan.
Qualified Plan
"" means the benefit defined in Article III.
Restoration Benefit
"" or "" means a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code section 409A.
Separation from Service
Separates from Service
"" means an election to change the time or form of payment of a Participant's Restoration Benefit pursuant to Section 4.5(b).
Subsequent Distribution Election
"" means the date a Participant becomes 100% vested in his Restoration Benefit, as such term is defined in Section 3.5.
Vested Date
"" means a Participant's whole and partial "Years of Vesting Service," as defined in the Qualified Plan. If a Participant became an Eligible Employee in connection with a corporate merger or acquisition, the Plan Administrator shall determine upon the date such Participant becomes an Eligible Employee to what extent, if any, such Participant's service with the predecessor employer shall be included as Vesting Service under this Plan.
Vesting Service
Participation in the Plan shall be limited to Eligible Employees. The Plan Administrator, or its delegate, shall notify any Employee of his status as an Eligible Employee at such time and in such manner as the Plan Administrator shall determine.
3.1 . An Eligible Employee shall become entitled to receive the benefits determined under this Article III on and after the first day of the month following the date he becomes an Eligible Employee (the "Restoration Benefit"). An Account shall be established for each Participant. The Account shall be credited with Pay Credits and Interest Credits pursuant to the provisions of this Article III. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Newly Hired Eligible Employee shall not earn or accrue any benefits under this Article III until the first day of the month following or coincident with the 31st day after his Date of Hire.
Amount of Restoration Benefit
3.2 . Pay Credits shall be determined and credited in accordance with this Section 3.2 to the Account of each Participant who is an Eligibile Employee during a Plan Year ("Pay Credits"). Pay Credits shall be determined for each Participant as the amount obtained by multiplying such Participant's Compensation received during a Crediting Period by the percentage, based on the Participant's Points, indicated in the table below. Pay Credits shall be credited to a Participant's Account as of the last day of each Crediting Period during the Plan Year in which he receives Compensation. If a Participant terminates employment with the Company and all Affiliates and is subsequently rehired by the Company or an Affiliate, such Employee shall not accrue any additional Pay Credits following his or her reemployment unless the Committee again approves him as an Eligible Employee.
Pay Credits
3.3 . As of the last day of each Crediting Period, each Account shall be credited with an Interest Credit ("Interest Credits") equal to the product of the Account balance as of the end of the prior Crediting Period multiplied by the rate which, if compounded each Crediting Period for an entire calendar year, would yield an effective annual rate equal to the interest rate applicable to the Plan Year in which such Crediting Period begins. The applicable interest rate for a Plan Year shall be equal to the monthly average for 30-year Treasury bond rates for the month of December in the immediately preceding Plan Year, as published in the Federal Reserve Statistical Release. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the applicable interest rate for each Plan Year shall not be lower than 3%. Participants shall continue to receive Interest Credits to their Accounts through the end of the Crediting Period immediately preceding their Benefit Commencement Date.
Interest Credits
3.4 . A Participant who becomes Disabled while employed as an Eligible Employee shall continue to be eligible to receive Pay Credits, based on his Compensation, until the time he or she ceases to receive benefits under an Employer-sponsored long-term disability program, or, if earlier, as of the time he or she elects to receive distribution of his or her benefits under the Qualified Plan. Such Participant's Points shall be updated annually in accordance with the Qualified Plan. For purposes of this Section 3.4, Compensation shall be determined by replacing PPA Compensation in the definition of Compensation (as set forth in Article I) with PPA Compensation determined in accordance with Section 1.38B(c) of the Qualified Plan.
Disability Benefit
3.5 . A Participant shall be 100% vested in his Restoration Benefit on the date he completes ten (10) years of Vesting Service and reaches age sixty (60) (the "Vested Date"), provided that such Participant remains employed by the Company or an Affiliate through such date.
Vesting
3.6 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event a Participant changes from a position as an Eligible Employee to one that is not an Eligible Employee for any reason, such Participant shall not receive any additional Pay Credits following the date of such change; provided, however, such Participant shall continue to earn Interest Credits until the Benefit Commencement Date and shall continue to vest in the Restoration Benefit during his continued service as an Employee.
Change in Position Prior to Distribution Event
3.7 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no benefit will be payable to or on behalf of a Participant who terminates employment with the Company and all Affiliates before his Vested Date.
Separation Before Vested Date
4.1 . Absent an effective election under Section 4.5, the Partcipant's Restoration Benefit shall normally be distributed to him in a lump sum payment during the second month after the month in which the the Participant Separates from Service. Notwithstanding any elections by a Participant, if the amount of a Participant's Restoration Benefit is less than the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code at the time the Participant Separates from Service, the benefit shall be distributed in a lump sum payment during the second month after the month in which the the Participant Separates from Service.
Distribution Upon Separation
4.2 . In the event that a Participant is a Key Employee as of the date of his or her Separation from Service, any distributions to such Participant under Section 4.1 shall not commence earlier than six (6) months following the date of such Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death). Amounts otherwise payable to the Participant during such period of delay shall be accumulated and paid in the seventh month following the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the first day of the month after the Participant's death). Interest Credits shall continue to accrue on the Restoration Benefit during the period of delay following the Participant's Separation from Service until the Benefit Commencement Date.
Key Employee
4.3 . Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant becomes Disabled prior to his or her Separation from Service, the Restoration Benefit will be distributed in a lump sum payment in the month after the month in which the Participant attains age sixty-five (65).
Distribution Upon Disability
4.4 . Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, in the event of the death of the Participant before benefits have commenced, the Restoration Benefit will be distributed in a lump sum payment in the second month after the month of death to the Participant's beneficiary. In the event of the death of the Participant after benefits have commenced in a form elected by the Participant under section 4.5, death benefits under the Plan will be payable to the Participant's beneficiary in accordance with the form of distribution elected by the Participant. A Participant shall designate his beneficiary in a writing delivered to the Plan Administrator prior to death in accordance with procedures established by the Plan Administrator. If a Participant has not properly designated a beneficiary or if no designated beneficiary is living on the date of distribution, such amount shall be distributed to the Participant's estate.
Distributions Upon Death
4.5 . In order to elect to change the time or form of distribution of the Restoration Benefit, a Participant shall file an Initial Distribution Election or Subsequent Distribution Election, written or electronic, in accordance with procedures established by the Plan Administrator. A distribution election under this Section 4.5 shall become irrevocable on the date the election is filed with the Plan Administrator.
Changes in Time or Form of Distribution
Any election (including changes solely among the Annuity Options) with respect to the form of payment under the Plan after the Participant's third Subsequent Distribution Election shall be null and void and have no force or effect. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Subsequent Distribution Election solely to change the form of payment from one Annuity Option to another Annuity Option listed in Section 4.6(b) shall not be subject to the conditions set forth in Sections 4.5(b)(i)-(iii) above. In the event the Restoration Benefit is payable after the Participant made one or more Subsequent Distribution Elections under this Section 4.5(b), Interest Credits shall continue to accrue on the Restoration Benefit following the Participant's Separation from Service until the Benefit Commencement Date.
4.6 . Subject to the requirements of Sections 4.2 and 4.5, the Participant may elect the manner in which his or her vested Restoration Benefit shall be paid from between the following options:
Permitted Form of Payment Options
(a) Lump sum; or
(i) single life annuity;
(v) 10-Year Certain and Life; or
(vi) 20-Year Certain and Life.
4.7 . If the Participant's benefits under the Plan are includible in income pursuant to Code section 409A, such benefits shall be distributed immediately to the Participant.
Effect of Early Taxation
4.8 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment to a Participant under the Plan shall be delayed upon the Plan Administrator's reasonable anticipation of one or more of the following events:
Permitted Delays
provided, that any payment delayed pursuant to this Section 4.8 shall be paid in accordance with Code section 409A.
5.1 . The Company is the sponsor of the Plan, and the Committee is the Plan Administrator responsible for the operation and administration of the Plan.
General Administration
5.2 . The Plan Administrator shall have sole discretionary authority for the operation, interpretation and administration of the Plan. All determinations and actions of the Plan Administrator within its discretionary authority shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, except that the Plan Administrator may revoke or modify a determination or action it determines was previously made in error. In addition to the implied powers and duties that may be needed to carry out the administration of the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall have the following specific powers and responsibilities:
Responsibility of Administrator
5.3 . The Plan Administrator shall maintain books and records for purposes of this Plan, which shall be subject to the supervision and control of the Plan Administrator. SunTrust shall pay the general expenses of administering this Plan. The Plan Administrator shall be entitled to rely conclusively upon all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports furnished by any actuary, accountant, controller, counsel or other person employed or engaged by the Company with respect to the Plan.
Books, Records and Expenses
5.4 . Neither the Plan Administrator nor any delegate who is an employee of the Company or an Affiliate shall receive any additional compensation for his services as Plan Administrator or delegate.
Compensation
5.5 . The Company (to the full extent permissible under law and consistent with its charters and bylaws) shall indemnify and hold harmless the Plan Administrator, each individual member of the Plan Administrator and any Employee authorized to act on behalf of the Plan Administrator, the Company or an Affiliate under this Plan for any liability, loss, expense, assessment or other cost of any kind or description whatsoever, including legal fees and expenses, which they actually incur for their acts and omissions, past, current or future, in the administration of the Plan.
Indemnification
5.6 . The Plan Administrator shall establish a reasonable claims procedure consistent with the requirements under the Department of Labor regulations under section 503 of ERISA.
Claims
6.1 . The Company expects to continue this Plan indefinitely, but reserves the right to amend or discontinue the Plan should it deem such an amendment or discontinuance necessary or desirable. The Company hereby authorizes and empowers the Committee, as Plan Administrator, to amend this Plan in any manner that is consistent with the purpose of this Plan as set forth in this document, without further approval of the Company's Board of Directors, and to delegate authority to amend this Plan to one or more appropriate members of the Committee or officers of the Company, except as to any matter that the Committee determines may result in a material increased cost to the Company or its Affiliates, in which case the consent of the Committee shall be required. No amendment or discontinuance of this Plan shall reduce the vested balances credited to any Participant's Account as of the date such amendment is adopted or the date of such discontinuance.
Right to Amend or Terminate Plan
6.2 . If the Company terminates the Plan, distribution of balances in Accounts shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time as provided in Article IV, unless the Company determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination of the Plan in accordance with the requirements under Code section 409A. Upon termination of the Plan, no further benefits shall be credited under the Plan.
Distribution of Accounts
7.1 . The headings and subheadings in this Plan have been set forth for convenience of reference only and have no substantive effect whatsoever. Whenever any words in this document are used in the masculine, they shall be construed as though they were used in the feminine in all cases where they would so apply; and whenever any words in this document are used in the singular or in the plural, they shall be construed as though they were used in the plural or in the singular, as the case may be, in all cases where they would so apply.
Construction
7.2 . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or illegal for any reason, any illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, but the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had never been inserted.
Severability
7.3 . A Participant, a spouse or a beneficiary under this Plan shall have no right or power whatsoever to alienate, commute, anticipate or otherwise assign at law or equity all or any portion of any benefit otherwise payable under this Plan, and the Company shall have the right, in the event of any such action, to terminate permanently the payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, any Participant, spouse or beneficiary who attempts to do so.
No Alienation or Assignment
7.4 . If any person entitled to a distribution under the Plan is deemed by the Plan Administrator to be incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for such payment, then, unless and until a claim for such payment shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person, the Plan Administrator may provide for all or part of such payment to be made to any other person or institution then contributing toward or providing for the care and maintenance of such person. Any such payment shall be a payment for the account of such person and a complete discharge of any liability of the Company, its Affiliates and the Plan to the extent of such payment.
Incapacity of Recipient
7.5 . Each Participant shall keep the Plan Administrator informed of his current address and the current address of his designated beneficiary. The Plan Administrator shall not be obligated to search for the whereabouts of any person if the location of a person is not made known to the Plan Administrator.
Unclaimed Benefits
7.6 . Participation in this Plan does not grant to any individual the right to remain in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate for any specific term of employment or in any specific capacity or at any specific rate of compensation.
Not a Contract of Employment
7.7 .
Unfunded Plan
7.8 . The Company or other payor may withhold from a benefit payment under the Plan or from a Participant's wages in order to meet any federal, state, or local tax withholding obligations with respect to Plan benefits. The Company or other payor may also accelerate and pay a portion of a Participant's benefits in a lump sum equal to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act ("FICA") tax imposed and the income tax withholding related to such FICA amounts. The Company or other payor shall report Plan payments and other Plan-related information to the appropriate governmental agencies as required under applicable laws.
Taxes
7.9 . This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor of the Company and any successor shall be deemed substituted for the Company under this Plan and shall assume the rights, obligations and liabilities of the Company hereunder and be obligated to perform the terms and conditions of this Plan. As used in this Plan, the term "successor" shall include any person, firm, corporation or other business entity or related group of such persons, firms, corporations or business entities which at any time, whether by merger, purchase, reorganization, liquidation or otherwise, or by means of a series of such transactions, acquires all or substantially all of the assets or business of the Company.
Binding Effect
7.10 . The Plan and all actions taken pursuant to the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia (excluding its conflict-of-interest laws) except to the extent such laws are superseded by federal law.
Governing Law
7.11 . Regulatory agencies and federal laws and regulations may impose restrictions on the Company and its Affiliates with respect to the payment of compensation and benefits to certain employees who may be Participants in this Plan. These restrictions may be in the form of absolute prohibitions or penalties, which may include tax penalties on the Company and its Affiliates or on certain Participants. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan document, the Company may reduce, eliminate or delay the payment of a Participant's benefits under this Plan or may take actions that subject such benefits to monetary or tax penalties, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion to be required under federal laws or regulations applicable to the Company and its Affiliates. In such event, neither the Company nor its Affiliates shall have any liability for such reduction, elimination, delay or penalty. Any delay in payment of a Participant's benefits under this Plan will comply with Section 4.8.
Regulatory Requirements
Executed this day of December, 2010.
      
H:\015100\00020\STI  SUNTRUST RESTORATION BENEFITS PLANV6.DOC

SunTrust Banks, Inc. hereby amends and restates the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as last amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009 in the form of this SunTrust Banks, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan amended and restated as of January 1, 2010 (the "Plan"). Except as otherwise specifically provided in this document, the terms of this Plan shall apply only to a Participant who terminates employment with SunTrust and all Affiliates after 2004 and has not commenced receiving payment of the benefits under the Plan prior to January 1, 2009. During the period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, the Plan has operated in reasonable good faith compliance with Code section 409A and the transitional guidelines set forth in official IRS guidance. The Plan is maintained to provide a targeted level of post-retirement income for certain executives of SunTrust and its Affiliates and to supplement the benefits provided under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan and the SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Retirement Plan.
This Plan is intended to better enable SunTrust to deliver more competitive levels of total retirement income to its senior executives; to aid in the recruitment and retention of critical executive talent; and to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder (except with respect to Grandfathered Amounts). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with these intentions.
All capitalized terms used in this Plan and not defined in this document (including an Exhibit) shall have the same meaning as in SunTrust's Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. The following capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Article 2 whenever such capitalized terms are used throughout this Plan:
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant is subject to the terms of a change in control agreement with SunTrust (the "Change in Control Agreement") at the time of his termination of employment with SunTrust or an Affiliate, solely for purposes of such Participant's benefits under the Plan, "Cause" shall have the meaning provided in the Change in Control Agreement.
For purposes of this Section 2.23(a)(1), the term "Reduction Factor" means 96.3%.
Provided, that in no event shall the SERP Benefit for a Tier 2 Participant with an accrued benefit as of December 31, 2007 be less than (iv) or (v), whichever is greater (the "Tier 2 Minimum Benefit"), minus (vi), where:         .
If any benefit payable under A through D is payable in a form other than a life only annuity or such benefit is payable at a time other than the date as of which the SERP Benefit is paid, such benefit will be converted to a life only annuity payable as of the same date as the SERP Benefit using the actuarial factors then in effect to make such conversions under the Retirement Plan.
For purposes of this Section 2.23(b), "present value" is determined using the same interest rate and mortality assumptions used for calculating lump sum payments under the Retirement Plan as in effect on December 31, 1995, including the interest rate published by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC"), and when the PBGC rate is no longer published, the interest rate will be (i) the rate that would be used to calculate a lump sum paid from the Retirement Plan less (ii) the average monthly difference between the PBGC rate and the Retirement Plan rate for the five (5) year period ending on the date the PBGC rate was last published.
Each executive of SunTrust or an Affiliate who is eligible for one or more benefits under this Plan will be a Participant in this Plan to the extent of the benefits for which he or she is eligible and will remain a Participant until all such benefits are paid to or on behalf of such Participant or forfeited in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
The Committee will designate those executives who are eligible for a SERP Benefit and will also designate each eligible executive as a Tier 1 Participant or a Tier 2 Participant. After December 31, 2010, SunTrust does not expect to add any new Participants to this Plan.
Subject to Article 13, the Committee in its absolute discretion may revoke or change any such designation at any time but no such revocation or change will be applied retroactively to deprive an individual of vested benefits accrued under this Plan to the date of such revocation or change. Eligibility for an Other Retirement Arrangement Benefit will depend upon the terms of the applicable Other Retirement Arrangement.
4.1 .
Amount
4.2 . A Participant's entire vested SERP Benefit under this Plan (other than Grandfathered Amounts) will be paid at the time and in the form determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of the SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Retirement Plan, including any required six-month delay in payment for Key Employees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a lump sum is payable to a Participant designated in , the amount of the lump sum will be calculated in accordance with the special lump sum calculation in Section 2.23(b). If the SERP Benefit is payable after the date of a Participant's Separation from Service (including as a result of the six month delay in payment for a Key Employee), interest shall accrue from the date of determination of such amount in the same manner and at the same rate as would accrue on the Personal Pension Account under the Retirement Plan until payment commences.
Time and Form of Benefit Payable to Participants
Exhibit B
"Present value" is determined using the actuarial factors then in effect under the Retirement Plan to calculate lump sums or, if applicable, the factors under Section 2.23(b).
If a Participant who is eligible for an Other Retirement Arrangement Benefit terminates employment with SunTrust and all Affiliates on or after the date the Participant is vested in such benefit, his or her eligibility for the Other Retirement Arrangement Benefit, if any, to which such Participant is entitled and the eligibility for any survivor benefits payable on such Participant's behalf under such Other Retirement Arrangement shall be determined under the terms of such Other Retirement Arrangement; provided, however, to the extent any portion of such Other Retirement Arrangement Benefit or survivor benefits is subject to Code section 409A, the time and form of payment of such amounts shall be determined in accordance with Section 4.2.
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may make any payments under this Plan subject to forfeiture on such terms and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances to protect the interests of SunTrust. Further, if the Participant is terminated from employment with SunTrust or one of its Affiliates for Cause, the Committee in its discretion may forfeit entirely any benefits payable under this Plan. Forfeiture under this Article 6 shall be in addition to any other remedies which may be available to SunTrust or an Affiliate at law or in equity.
All benefits payable under the terms of this Plan shall be paid by SunTrust from its general assets. No person shall have any right or interest or claim whatsoever to the payment of a benefit under this Plan from any person whomsoever other than SunTrust, and no Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right or interest whatsoever to the payment of a benefit under this Plan which is superior in any manner to the right of any other general and unsecured creditor of SunTrust.
Participation in this Plan does not grant to any individual the right to remain an employee of SunTrust or any Affiliate for any specific term of employment or in any specific capacity or at any specific rate of compensation.
A Participant, a spouse or a Beneficiary under this Plan shall have no right or power whatsoever to alienate, commute, anticipate or otherwise assign at law or equity all or any portion of any benefit otherwise payable under this Plan, and SunTrust shall have the right, in the event of any such action, to terminate permanently the payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, any Participant, spouse or Beneficiary who attempts to do so.
SunTrust intends that this Plan come within the various exceptions and exemptions to ERISA for a plan maintained for a "select group of management or highly compensated employees" as described in ERISA sections 201(2), 301(a) (3), and 401(a) (1), and any ambiguities in this Plan shall be construed to affect that intent.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of the Plan shall apply to the Grandfathered Amounts, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" under Code section 409A to the Grandfathered Amounts.
Reimbursement of reasonable costs and expenses under this Section 13.8 shall be administered consistent with the following additional requirements as set forth in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv): (1) a Participant's eligibility for benefits in one year will not affect a Participant's eligibility for benefits in any other year; (2) any reimbursement of eligible expenses will be made on or before the last day of the year following the year in which the expense was incurred; and (3) a Participant's right to benefits is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. In the event the Participant is a Key Employee, reimbursement for benefits under this Section 13.8 shall commence in the seventh month following the date of the Participant's Separation from Service. No reimbursement shall be made under this Section 13.8 for the same expenses that are reimbursed to a Participant under any other agreement between the Participant and SunTrust or an Affiliate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, SunTrust has caused this amended and restated Plan to be executed by its duly authorized officer to evidence its adoption hereof effective as of January 1, 2010.
SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
By: Donna D. Lange Title:
Date:
(SEAL)
Exhibit A
Pursuant to Section 2.14, Other Retirement Arrangement means the following plan, program, arrangement or agreement (a) that is maintained by SunTrust or an Affiliate, (b) that provides a benefit calculated as a defined-benefit type benefit and (c) in which a Participant also participates:
Exhibit B
The Committee has designated the following Participants as eligible for the Special Lump Sum calculation described in Section 2.23(b) of the Plan document:
Exhibit C
On December 30, 2009, the Committee approved "salary shares" as part of the 2010 base pay for certain designated executives and directed that a portion of the value of such "salary shares" be recognized as base pay for purposes of calculating benefits under certain employee benefit plans, including this Plan. Accordingly, the following rules apply to the executives named in the table below who are Participants in the 2010 calendar year.
For purposes of calculating SERP Compensation, as defined in Section 2.24 of the main text of this Plan, of a Tier 1 or Tier 2 Participant who is named in the following table, his base salary for the 2010 calendar year shall include the dollar amount set forth by his name. The dollar amount represents a portion of the value of the "salary shares" the Participant is expected to receive in 2010 as part of his base salary. Such dollar value shall be pro rated, restricted or limited to the extent required by the terms of the Plan in calculating and applying SERP Compensation. The Plan shall not recognize any additional amount of, or value for, "salary shares."
*This value for Mr. Wells is also used in the Crestar SERP benefit formula.
**This value for Mr. Hill is not used in the Crestar SERP benefit formula.
Exhibit D
The Committee designated the following executives as Tier 1 and Tier 2 Participants:
The following individuals who were former key officers of National Commerce Financial Corporation or its affiliates were designated by the Committee as Tier 2 Participants:
Exhibit E
The Committee designated the Participants listed below as being 100% vested in their SERP Benefits.
Exhibit F
The Committee designated the Participants listed below as eligible for the special retirement reduction described in Section 4.1(b)(4) and in Section 4.3(c)(2)(iii):
H:\015100\PLAN DOCUMENTS\NONQUALIFIED PLANS\RESTATED PLANS\SERP\STI  SERP 2010 RESTATEMENTV13  FINAL.DOC

Exhibit 10.5
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
2009 Stock Plan
SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust"), a Georgia corporation, pursuant to action of the Compensation Committee ("Committee") and in accordance with the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan ("Plan"), has determined that going forward and until the Committee determines otherwise Grantee's base salary will be payable partly in cash and partly in stock units. The Committee therefore grants these stock units (the "Stock Units") to Grantee as a periodic payment of the stock portion of Grantee's salary, net of applicable withholdings and other deductions. Beginning with the first full biweekly pay period that commencing January 1, 2011, and continuing thereafter until the Committee determines otherwise, Executive's total base salary on a semi-monthly basis shall be $[ ], of which $[ ] shall be paid in cash and the remainder of which shall be paid in Stock Units, in each case net of applicable withholdings and other deductions. Each Stock Unit represents the right to receive a payment in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of SunTrust Common Stock, $1.00 par value, at a future date and time, subject to the terms of this Salary Share Stock Unit Agreement. This Salary Share Stock Unit Agreement (the "Salary Agreement") evidences this grant, which has been made subject to all the terms and conditions set forth on the attached Terms and Conditions and in the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan (the "Plan").
The number of Stock Units to be paid to Executive as part of Executive's semi-monthly salary shall be determined in the following manner: First, the salary amount to be paid in Stock Units shall be divided by the reported closing price on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") for a share of SunTrust common stock on the pay date for the relevant pay period (or, if not a NYSE trading day, on the immediately preceding such trading day) to determine the gross number of Stock Units to be awarded to Grantee. Next, the dollar amount of applicable tax withholdings and other deductions shall be determined, and shall be divided by the reported closing price on the NYSE for a share of SunTrust common stock on the pay date for the relevant pay period (or, if not a NYSE trading day, on the immediately preceding such trading day) to determine the number of Stock Units to be retained and cancelled by the Company in lieu of such taxes and other deductions. Finally, an account shall be credited on behalf of Grantee for the net amount of Stock Units described in the preceding two sentences.  
 1. . The Stock Units to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed granted as of each respective semi-monthly pay date (the ("Grant Date"). Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Grantee's salary shall be payable in accordance with SunTrust's regular payroll practice for similarly situated employees, as in effect from time to time.
EFFECTIVE DATE
 2. . Once awarded, the Stock Units will be fully vested and not subject to the risk of forfeiture or any requirement of future service.
VESTING
 3. .
GRANTEE'S RIGHTS PRIOR TO PAYMENT
(a) The Stock Unit award will not include any rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents.
(b) Nothing in the Plan, this Agreement, or the Stock Units shall be construed to give the Grantee any rights as a shareholder of SunTrust, including the right to vote or receive dividends. The Grantee shall be an unsecured general creditor of SunTrust with respect to any cash payment relating to Stock Units, and any payment provided pursuant to this Agreement shall be made from SunTrust's general assets.
(c) The Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, exchanged, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered. If Grantee is deceased at the time the Stock Units are settled, SunTrust will make such payment to the executor or administrator of Grantee's estate or to Grantee's other legal representative as determined in good faith by SunTrust.
 4. . Each such Stock Unit award will be settled in cash on the Settlement Date. The "Settlement Date" shall mean the earlier of: (a) March 15, 2012; (b) the date of Grantee's death; or (c) the date SunTrust repays all of its obligations under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (other than common stock purchase warrants). The amount to be paid on settlement of the Stock Units will be equal to the number of Stock Units being settled multiplied by the reported closing price on the NYSE for a share of SunTrust common stock on the settlement date (or, if not a NYSE trading day, on the immediately preceding such trading day). The value of the Stock Units shall be paid in a cash lump sum on the Settlement Date. For purposes of this  4, the value of each Stock Unit will equal the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Settlement Date.
PAYMENT OF AWARD
 5. . Upon the payment of any Stock Units, SunTrust's obligation to deliver cash to settle the Stock Units shall be subject to the satisfaction of applicable tax withholding requirements, including federal, state, and local requirements. The Grantee must pay to SunTrust any applicable federal, state or local withholding tax due as a result of such payment. Where Grantee has not previously satisfied all applicable withholding tax obligations, SunTrust will, at the time the tax withholding obligation arises in connection herewith, retain an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum amount of taxes then required to be withheld by the Company in connection therewith from any amounts then payable hereunder to Grantee. If any withholding is required prior to the time amounts are payable to Grantee hereunder, the withholding will be taken from other compensation then payable to Grantee or as otherwise determined by SunTrust.
WITHHOLDING
 6. . Nothing in the Plan or this Salary Agreement or any related material shall give the Grantee the right to continue in the employment of SunTrust or any Subsidiary or adversely affect the right of SunTrust or any Subsidiary to terminate the Grantee's employment with or without cause at any time.
NO EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS
 7. . Notwithstanding anything in the Agreement, SunTrust will not be required to comply with any term or condition of the Agreement if and to the extent prohibited by law, including but not limited to federal banking and securities regulations, or as otherwise directed by one or more regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over SunTrust or any of its subsidiaries. In particular, SunTrust shall have the right to refuse to pay any amount or under this Salary Agreement if SunTrust acting in its absolute discretion determines that the payment of such amount, issuance or transfer of such Stock might violate any applicable law or regulation.
OTHER LAWS
 8. .
MISCELLANEOUS
(a) This Salary Agreement shall be subject to all of the provisions, definitions, terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and any interpretations, rules and regulations promulgated by the Committee from time to time, all of which are incorporated by reference in this Salary Agreement. If the Plan and this Agreement are inconsistent, the provisions of the Plan will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and this Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company.
(b) The Plan and this Salary Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia (without regard to its choice-of-law provisions).
(c) Any written notices provided for in this Salary Agreement that are sent by mail shall be deemed received three (3) business days after mailing, but not later than the date of actual receipt. Notices shall be directed, if to Grantee, at Grantee's address indicated by SunTrust's records and, if to SunTrust, at SunTrust's principal executive offices.
(d) It is the intention of the parties that this Agreement and the awards made pursuant to the Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code to the extent, if any, that such provisions are applicable to the Agreement, and the Agreement will be administered by SunTrust in a manner consistent with this intent. If any payments or benefits hereunder may be deemed to constitute nonconforming deferred compensation subject to taxation under the provisions of Section 409A, Grantee agrees that SunTrust may, without the consent of Grantee, modify the Agreement and the awards made pursuant to this Agreement to the extent and in the manner SunTrust deems necessary or advisable or take such other action or actions, including an amendment or action with retroactive effect, that SunTrust deems appropriate in order either to preclude any such payments or benefits from being deemed "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A or to provide such payments or benefits in a manner that complies with the provisions of Section 409A such that they will not be taxable thereunder.
(e) If one or more of the provisions of this Salary Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed retroactively to permit this Salary Agreement to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Salary Agreement and the Plan.
(f) This Salary Agreement (which incorporates the terms and conditions of the Plan) constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Salary Agreement supersedes all prior discussions, negotiations, understandings, commitments and agreements with respect to such matters.

This Change in Control Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into by and between SunTrust Banks, Inc., a Georgia corporation ("SunTrust"), and ("Executive").
      
WHEREAS, Executive is employed by SunTrust or provides services directly or indirectly to SunTrust as a senior executive of SunTrust or one, or more than one, SunTrust Affiliate; and
WHEREAS, the Board and the Compensation Committee decided that SunTrust should provide certain benefits to Executive in the event Executive's employment is terminated without Cause or Executive resigns for Good Reason following a Change in Control; and
WHEREAS, this Agreement sets forth the benefits which the Board and the Compensation Committee have decided SunTrust shall provide under such circumstances and the terms and conditions under which the Board and the Compensation Committee have decided that such benefits shall be provided.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements contained in this Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, SunTrust and Executive hereby agree as follows:
1.1 . The term "Board" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean the Board of Directors of SunTrust.
Board
1.2 . The term "Cause" for purposes of this Agreement shall (subject to  1.2(e)) mean:
Cause
(a) The willful and continued failure by Executive to perform satisfactorily the duties of Executive's job;
(b) Executive is convicted of a felony or has engaged in a dishonest act, misappropriation of funds, embezzlement, criminal conduct or common law fraud;
(c) Executive has engaged in a material violation of the SunTrust Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or the Code of Conduct of a SunTrust Affiliate; or
(d) Executive has engaged in any willful act that materially damages or materially prejudices SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate or has engaged in conduct or activities materially damaging to the property, business or reputation of SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate; provided, however,
(e) No such act, omission or event shall be treated as "Cause" under this Agreement unless (i) Executive has been provided a detailed, written statement of the basis for SunTrust's belief that such act, omission or event constitutes "Cause" and an opportunity to meet with the Compensation Committee (together with Executive's counsel if Executive chooses to have Executive's counsel present at such meeting) after Executive has had a reasonable period in which to review such statement and, if the allegation is under  1.2(a), has had at least a thirty (30) day period to take corrective action and (ii) the Compensation Committee after such meeting (if Executive meets with the Compensation Committee) and after the end of such thirty (30) day correction period (if applicable) determines reasonably and in good faith and by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Compensation Committee then in office at a meeting called and held for such purpose that "Cause" does exist under this Agreement.
1.3 . The term "Change in Control" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean a change in control of SunTrust of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act as in effect at the time of such "change in control", provided that such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as (i) any "person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act), is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, of securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power for election of directors of the then outstanding securities of SunTrust or any successor of SunTrust; (ii) during any period of two consecutive years or less, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board cease, for any reason, to constitute at least a majority of the Board, unless the election or nomination for election of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period; (iii) there is a consummation of any reorganization, merger, consolidation or share exchange as a result of which the common stock of SunTrust shall be changed, converted or exchanged into or for securities of another corporation (other than a merger with a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunTrust) or any dissolution or liquidation of SunTrust or any sale or the disposition of 50% or more of the assets or business of SunTrust; or (iv) there is a consummation of any reorganization, merger, consolidation or share exchange unless (A) the persons who were the beneficial owners of the outstanding shares of the common stock of SunTrust immediately before the consummation of such transaction beneficially own more than 65% of the outstanding shares of the common stock of the successor or survivor corporation in such transaction immediately following the consummation of such transaction and (B) the number of shares of the common stock of such successor or survivor corporation beneficially owned by the persons described in  1.3(iv)(A) immediately following the consummation of such transaction is beneficially owned by each such person in substantially the same proportion that each such person had beneficially owned shares of SunTrust common stock immediately before the consummation of such transaction, provided (C) the percentage described in  1.3(iv)(A) of the beneficially owned shares of the successor or survivor corporation and the number described in  1.3(iv)(B) of the beneficially owned shares of the successor or survivor corporation shall be determined exclusively by reference to the shares of the successor or survivor corporation which result from the beneficial ownership of shares of common stock of SunTrust by the persons described in  1.3(iv)(A) immediately before the consummation of such transaction.
Change in Control
1.4 . The term "Code" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
1.5 . The term "Compensation Committee" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board.
Compensation Committee
1.6 . The term "Confidential or Proprietary Information" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean any secret, confidential, or proprietary information of SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate (not otherwise included in the definition of Trade Secret in  1.23 of this Agreement) that has not become generally available to the public by the act of one who has the right to disclose such information without violating any right of SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate.
Confidential or Proprietary Information
1.7 . The term "Current Compensation Package" for purposes of  3.1(c)(1) of this Agreement shall mean the sum of the amounts described in  1.7(a) and in  1.7(b) as follows:
Current Compensation Package
(a) . Executive's highest annual base salary from SunTrust and any SunTrust Affiliate which (but for any salary deferral election) is in effect at any time during the one-year period which ends on the date Executive's employment with SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate terminates under the circumstances described in  3.1 or  3.6.
Base Salary
(b) .
Bonus Award
(1) . If Executive participates in the MIP at termination, the amount described in this  1.7(b) shall (subject to  1.7(b)(2)) be the greater of (i) Executive's target annual bonus under the MIP for the calendar year in which Executive's employment with SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate terminates under the circumstances described in  3.1 or  3.6, or (ii) the average of the annual bonus earned by Executive (disregarding any deferral) for the 3 full calendar years in which Executive participated in the MIP (or, if less, the number of full calendar years in which Executive participated in the MIP) which immediately precede the calendar year in which Executive's employment so terminates. If Executive was not eligible to participate in the MIP at termination, but participates in a FIP, the amount described in this  1.7(b)(1) shall (subject to  1.7(b)(2)) be the greater of (i) Executive's target annual bonus under the FIP for the calendar year in which Executive's employment with SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate terminates under the circumstances described in  3.1 or  3.6, or (ii) the average of the annual bonus earned by Executive (disregarding any deferral) for the three (3) full calendar years in which Executive participated in the FIP (or, if less, the number of full calendar years in which Executive participated in the FIP) which immediately precede the calendar year in which Executive's employment so terminates. In the event Executive was not eligible to participate in the MIP or any FIP at termination, the amount described in this  1.7(b)(1) shall (subject to  1.7(b)(2)) be the last annual bonus earned by Executive (disregarding any deferral).
General Rule
(2) .
Exceptions to General Rule
(i) . If Executive participates in a FIP but not in the MIP, or if Executive is not eligible to participate in the MIP or any FIP at termination, the amount described in this  1.7(b) shall not exceed the amount which would have been described in  1.7(b)(1) if Executive instead had been a participant in the MIP.
No MIP
(ii) . SunTrust shall determine the amount which would have been described in  1.7(b)(1) if Executive had been a participant in the MIP based on the target bonus or, if greater, the projected bonus for a MIP participant, or for a class of such participants, whose duties, responsibilities and compensation match, or most closely match, Executive's duties, responsibilities and compensation before Executive's employment terminated.
Determination Rules
1.8 . The term "Disability Termination" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean a termination of Executive's employment exclusively as a result of an event causing such Executive to become eligible to receive disability income benefits under SunTrust's long term disability plan or any successor to or replacement for such plan.
Disability Termination
1.9 . The term "Exchange Act" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
1.10 . The term "FIP" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean an alternative functional incentive plan which provides a short-term bonus or commissions to certain Executives that are not eligible to participate in the MIP.
FIP
1.11 . The term "Good Reason" for purposes of this Agreement shall (subject to  1.11(e)) mean:
Good Reason
(a) SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate after a Change in Control but before the end of Executive's Protection Period reduces Executive's base salary or opportunity to receive comparable incentive compensation or bonuses without Executive's express written consent;
(b) SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate after a Change in Control but before the end of Executive's Protection Period reduces the scope of Executive's principal or primary duties, responsibilities or authority, without Executive's express written consent;
(c) SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate at any time after a Change in Control but before the end of Executive's Protection Period (without Executive's express written consent) transfers Executive's primary work site from Executive's primary work site on the date of such Change in Control or, if Executive subsequently consents in writing to such a transfer under this Agreement, from the primary work site which was the subject of such consent, to a new primary work site which is outside the "standard metropolitan statistical area" which then includes Executive's then current primary work site unless such new primary work site is closer to Executive's primary residence than Executive's then current primary work site; or
(d) SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate after a Change in Control but before the end of Executive's Protection Period fails (without Executive's express written consent) to continue to provide to Executive health and welfare benefits, deferred compensation and retirement benefits, stock option and restricted stock grants that are in the aggregate comparable to those provided to Executive immediately prior to the Change in Control; provided, however,
(e) No such act or omission shall be treated as "Good Reason" under this Agreement unless:
(1) (i) Executive delivers to the Compensation Committee a detailed, written statement of the basis for Executive's belief that such act or omission constitutes Good Reason, (ii) Executive delivers such statement before the later of (A) the end of the ninety (90) day period which starts on the date there is an act or omission which forms the basis for Executive's belief that Good Reason exists or (B) the end of the period mutually agreed upon for purposes of this  1.11(e)(1)(ii) in writing by Executive and the Chairman of the Compensation Committee, (iii) Executive gives the Compensation Committee a thirty (30) day period after the delivery of such statement to cure the basis for such belief and (iv) Executive actually submits Executive's written resignation to the Compensation Committee during the sixty (60) day period which begins immediately after the end of such thirty (30) day period if Executive reasonably and in good faith determines that Good Reason continues to exist after the end of such thirty (30) day period, or
(2) SunTrust states in writing to Executive that Executive has the right to treat such act or omission as Good Reason under this Agreement and Executive resigns during the sixty (60) day period which starts on the date such statement is actually delivered to Executive;
(f) If (1) Executive gives the Compensation Committee the statement described in  1.11(e)(1) before the end of the thirty (30) day period which immediately follows the end of the Protection Period and Executive thereafter resigns within the period described in  1.11(e)(1), or (2) SunTrust provides the statement to Executive described in  1.11(e)(2) before the end of the thirty (30) day period which immediately follows the end of the Protection Period and Executive thereafter resigns within the period described in  1.11(e)(2); then (3) such resignation shall be treated under this Agreement as if made in Executive's Protection Period; and
(g) If Executive consents in writing to any reduction described in  1.11(a) or  1.11(b), to any transfer described in  1.11(c) or to any failure described in  1.11(d) in lieu of exercising Executive's right to resign for Good Reason and delivers such consent to SunTrust, the date such consent is delivered to SunTrust thereafter shall be treated under this definition as the date of a Change in Control for purposes of determining whether Executive subsequently has Good Reason under this Agreement to resign under   3.1 or  3.6 as a result of any subsequent reduction described in  1.11(a) or  1.11(b), any subsequent transfer described in  1.11(c) or any subsequent failure described in  1.11(d).
1.12 . The term "Gross Up Payment" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean a payment to or on behalf of Executive which shall be sufficient to pay (i) any excise tax described in  9 in full, (ii) any federal, state and local income tax and social security and other employment tax on the payment made to pay such excise tax as well as any additional taxes on such payment and (iii) any interest or penalties assessed by the Internal Revenue Service on Executive which are related to the payment of such excise tax unless such interest or penalties are attributable to Executive's willful misconduct or negligence.
Gross Up Payment
1.13 . The term "Key Employee" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean an employee treated as a "specified employee" (as defined under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i)) of SunTrust or its affiliates (any member of its controlled group, as determined under Code Section 414(b), (c), or (m)) as of his or her Separation from Service if SunTrust or any affiliate's common stock is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise (i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof)). Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Code Section 409A using a December 31 identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the 12-month period beginning on the April 1 following the identification date.
Key Employee
1.14 . The term "Key Employee Delay" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean the period of delay set forth in  3.1.
Key Employee Delay
1.15 . The term "MIP" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Management Incentive Plan or, if there is any material change in the terms, operation or administration of such plan following a Change in Control, any successor to such plan in which Executive is eligible to participate and which provides an opportunity for a short-term bonus for Executive which is comparable to the opportunity which Executive had under such plan before such Change in Control or, if Executive reasonably determines that there is no such plan in which Executive is eligible to participate but SunTrust or a parent corporation maintains a short term bonus plan for the benefit of senior executives which provides for such an opportunity, such other plan as agreed to by Executive and the Compensation Committee.
MIP
1.16 . The term "Protection Period" for purposes of this Agreement shall (subject to  1.11(f)) mean the two (2) year period which begins on a Change in Control.
Protection Period
1.17 . The term "Restricted Period" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean the period which starts on the date Executive's employment by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate terminates under circumstances which require SunTrust to make the payments and provide the benefits described in  3 and which ends on the earlier of (a)(i) the first anniversary of such termination date for purposes of  5 and (ii) the second anniversary of such termination date for all other purposes under this Agreement, or (b) on the first date following such a termination on which SunTrust either breaches any obligation to Executive under  3 or no longer has any obligation to Executive under  3.
Restricted Period
1.18 or . The term "Separation from Service" or "Separates from Service" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code Section 409A.
Separation from Service
Separates from Service
1.19 . The term "Severance Period" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean the two (2) year period described in  3.2.
Severance Period
1.20 . The term "SunTrust" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean SunTrust Banks, Inc. and any successor to SunTrust.
SunTrust
1.21 . The term "SunTrust Affiliate" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean any corporation which is a subsidiary corporation (within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code) of SunTrust but excluding a corporation which has subsidiary corporation status under Section 424(f) of the Code exclusively as a result of SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate holding stock in such corporation as a fiduciary with respect to any trust, estate, conservatorship, guardianship or agency.
SunTrust Affiliate
1.22 . The term "Term" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean the period described in  2.2.
Term
1.23 . The term "Trade Secret" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean information, including, but not limited to, technical or nontechnical data, a formula, a pattern, a compilation, a program, a device, a method, a technique, a drawing, a process, financial data, financial plans, product plans, or a list of actual or potential customers or suppliers that:
Trade Secret
(a) derives economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to, and not being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, and
(b) is the subject of reasonable efforts by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate to maintain its secrecy.
2.1 . This Agreement shall be effective on the date of this Agreement as set forth in the signature section of this Agreement (the "Effective Date").
Effective Date
2.2 .
Term
(a) . The Term of this Agreement shall be the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending (subject to  2.2(b),  2.2(c) and  2.2(d)) on the third anniversary of such date.
Original Term
(b) . The Term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended for one additional year effective as of the first anniversary of the Effective Date and extended for one additional year each successive anniversary of the Effective Date thereafter unless either Executive or SunTrust delivers to the other at least 90 days advance written notice before an anniversary date that there will be no such one year extension as of the next anniversary date or any anniversary date thereafter.
Anniversary Date Extensions
(c) .
Other Extensions
(1) If Executive's Protection Period starts before the Term of this Agreement (as extended, if applicable, under  2.2(b)) expires, the Term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended until the expiration of such Protection Period.
(2) If Executive's employment terminates during Executive's Protection Period under the circumstances described in  3.1, if Executive's employment terminates under the circumstances described in  3.6 before the Term of this Agreement (as extended, if applicable, under  2.2(b)) expires, or if this Agreement is not assigned in accordance with  10.1, the Term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended until the earlier of (i) the date Executive agrees that all SunTrust's obligations to Executive under this Agreement have been satisfied in full or (ii) the date a final determination is made pursuant to  8 that SunTrust has no further obligations to Executive under this Agreement.
(d) . Unless  3.6 applies, this Agreement automatically terminates upon Executive's termination of employment before a Change in Control, and no benefits under this Agreement shall be due or payable to Executive as a result of such Executive's termination from SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate.
Termination Before Change in Control
3.1 . If a Change in Control occurs during the Term of this Agreement and either:
General
(a) SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate terminates Executive's employment without Cause during Executive's Protection Period; or
(b) Executive resigns for Good Reason during Executive's Protection Period; then
(c) SunTrust shall pay or provide to Executive the payments and benefits described below.
(1) . SunTrust shall pay Executive two (2) times Executive's Current Compensation Package. The amounts payable under this  3.1(c)(1) (the "Severance Amount") shall be paid in cash to Executive in a single lump sum sixty (60) days after Executive's Separation from Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Executive is a Key Employee, the Severance Amount shall be paid in a lump sum on the first day of the seventh month following the date on which Executive Separates from Service (or, if earlier, the first day of the month after Executive's death) (the "Key Employee Delay"). During the Key Employee Delay, interest shall accrue on the Severance Amount at the "prime rate" as reported by SunTrust Bank or its successor on the date Executive Separates from Service or, if such rate is not reported on such date, such rate as so reported on the last business day before Executive Separates from Service.
Cash Payment
(2) . Notwithstanding the terms of any plan or agreement under which an option was granted, each outstanding stock option granted to Executive by SunTrust shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable on the date Executive's employment so terminates and Executive shall be deemed to continue to be employed by SunTrust for the period described in  3.4 for purposes of determining when Executive's right to exercise each such option expires; provided, however, in no event shall Executive's right to exercise the option extend beyond the earlier of (i) the latest date upon which the option could have expired by its original terms under any circumstances; or (ii) the tenth (10) anniversary of the original date of grant.
Stock Options
th
(3) . Any restrictions on any outstanding restricted or performance stock grants or restricted or performance stock unit awards, if any, to Executive by SunTrust shall immediately expire and Executive's right to such stock or stock units shall be non-forfeitable notwithstanding the terms of any plan or agreement under which such grants or awards were made.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
(4) . SunTrust shall promptly pay Executive any earned but unpaid base salary and bonus, shall promptly pay Executive for any earned but untaken vacation and shall promptly reimburse Executive for any incurred but unreimbursed expenses which are otherwise reimbursable under SunTrust's expense reimbursement policy as in effect for senior executives immediately before Executive's employment so terminates.
Earned but Unpaid Salary, Bonus and Vacation
(5) . Payments under this  3.1(c)(5) shall reduce any amounts otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the MIP or FIP, as applicable, at the end of the calendar year in which Executive terminates employment. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any portion of the amounts set forth below that have been elected or scheduled to be deferred and credited under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan or any other nonqualified plan maintained by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate shall not be paid under this  3.1(c)(5).
Bonus Award
(i) . If Executive participates in the MIP, SunTrust shall pay Executive within thirty (30) days after Executive's employment terminates a portion of Executive's target bonus or, if greater, Executive's projected bonus under the MIP for the calendar year in which Executive's employment terminates, where (a) Executive's projected bonus shall be no less than the bonus which would have been projected under the projection procedures in effect under the MIP on the date of the Change in Control, and (b) such portion shall be determined by multiplying such target bonus or, if greater, such projected bonus by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of days Executive is employed in such calendar year and the denominator of which shall be the number of days in such calendar year.
MIP
(ii) . If Executive was not eligible to participate in the MIP, but participates in a FIP, SunTrust shall (subject to the exception to this general rule set forth in  3.1(c)(5)(iii)) pay Executive within 30 days after Executive's employment terminates a portion of Executive's target bonus or, if greater, Executive's projected bonus under the FIP for the calendar year in which Executive's employment terminates, where (a) Executive's projected bonus shall be no less than the bonus which would have been projected under the projection procedures in effect under the FIP on the date of the Change in Control, and (b) such portion shall be determined by multiplying such target bonus or, if greater, such projected bonus by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of days Executive is employed in such calendar year and the denominator of which shall be the number of days in such calendar year.
FIP
(iii) .
Limitations to FIP
(A) . If Executive participates in a FIP but not in the MIP, the payment made to Executive under  3.1(c)(5)(ii) shall not exceed the payment which would have been made to Executive if Executive instead had been a participant in the MIP.
No MIP
(B) . SunTrust shall determine the payment which would have been made to Executive under  3.1(c)(5)(i) if Executive had been a participant in the MIP based on the target bonus or, if greater, the projected bonus for a MIP participant, or for a class of such participants, whose duties, responsibilities and compensation match, or most closely match, Executive's duties, responsibilities and compensation before a Change in Control.
Determination Rules
3.2 . If Executive's employment terminates under the circumstances described in  3.1 or  3.6, SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate for the two (2) year period which begins on the date of such termination of Executive's employment (the "Severance Period") shall provide to Executive medical, dental and life insurance benefits which are similar in all material respects as those benefits provided under SunTrust's employee benefit plans, policies and programs to senior executives of SunTrust who have not terminated their employment (collectively, the medical and dental benefits referred to hereinafter as the "Welfare Benefits"). If SunTrust cannot provide such benefits under SunTrust's employee benefit plans, policies and programs, SunTrust either shall provide such benefits to Executive outside such plans, policies and programs at no additional expense or tax liability to Executive or shall reimburse Executive for Executive's cost to purchase such benefits and for any tax liability for such reimbursements.
Continuing Benefit Coverage
To the extent the continuation of the Welfare Benefits under  3.2 is, or ever becomes, taxable to Executive and to the extent the Welfare Benefits continue beyond the period in which Executive would be entitled (or would, but for this Agreement, be entitled) to continuation coverage under a group health plan of SunTrust under Code Section 4980B (COBRA) if Executive elected such coverage and paid the applicable premiums, SunTrust shall administer such continuation of coverage consistent with the following additional requirements as set forth in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv):
(a) Executive's eligibility for Welfare Benefits in one year will not affect Executive's eligibility for Welfare Benefits in any other year (disregarding any limit on the amount of Welfare Benefits that may be reimbursed during such continuation period);
(b) Any reimbursement of eligible expenses will be made on or before the last day of the year following the year in which the expense was incurred; and
(c) Executive's right to Welfare Benefits is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
In the event the preceding sentence applies, if Executive's applicable COBRA period lasts less than six (6) months and Executive is a Key Employee, reimbursement for Welfare Benefits shall commence on the first day after the Key Employee Delay.
3.3 . If Executive's employment terminates under the circumstances described in  3.1 or  3.6, Executive shall have a right to any benefits under any employee benefit plan, policy or program maintained by SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate (other than the MIP or a FIP and the SunTrust Severance Pay Plan) which Executive had a right to receive under the terms of such employee benefit plan, policy or program after a termination of Executive's employment without regard to this Agreement.
No Interference with Vested Benefits
3.4 . If Executive's employment terminates under the circumstances described in  3.1 or  3.6, Executive shall be deemed to have been employed by SunTrust throughout Executive's Severance Period for purposes of computing Executive's age and service credit on the date Executive's employment so terminates under any deferred compensation or welfare plan, policy or program (except a plan described in Section 401 of the Code) maintained by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate in which Executive is a participant and under which Executive's benefit, or eligibility for a benefit, is based in whole or in part on Executive's age or service, and Executive shall receive such age and service credit notwithstanding the terms of any such plan, policy or program.
Additional Age and Service Credit
3.5 . If Executive's employment terminates under the circumstances described in  3.1 or  3.6, Executive waives Executive's right, if any, to have any payment made under this  3 taken into account to increase the benefits otherwise payable to, or on behalf of, Executive under any employee benefit plan, policy or program, whether qualified or nonqualified, maintained by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate (e.g., there will be no increase in Executive's qualified pension benefit or life insurance because of compensation Executive receives under this Agreement) and, further, Executive acknowledges he has no right to any payment of severance pay and severance benefits under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Severance Pay Plan or any other severance pay plan, policy or program maintained by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate or under any individual severance agreement or employment agreement, subject to the condition that SunTrust not be relieved of any of its obligations to Executive under this  3 pursuant to  3.7 or  3.8.
No Increase in Other Benefits; No Other Severance Pay
3.6 . Executive shall be treated under  3.1 as if Executive's employment had been terminated without Cause or Executive had resigned for Good Reason during Executive's Protection Period if (1)(A) Executive's employment is terminated by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate without Cause on or after the date the shareholders of SunTrust approve any transaction described in 1.3(iii) or 1.3(iv) but before the Change in Control which results from such approval, or (B) Executive resigns for Good Reason on or after the date the shareholders of SunTrust approve any transaction described in 1.3(iii) or 1.3(iv) but before the Change in Control which results from such approval; (2) such shareholder approval occurs on or after the date this Agreement becomes effective under  2; and (3) there is a Change in Control which results from such shareholder approval. Executive shall receive the benefits set forth in  3.1(c)(1) in a single lump sum following the later of: (x) Executive's Separation from Service (with payment in accordance with  3.1(c)(1)), or (y) the date of the Change in Control. If the date of the Change in Control is the later event, payment shall be treated as made upon the lapse of a substantial risk of forfeiture under Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(1)(i) and treated as paid on the date of such Change in Control.
Termination in Anticipation of Change in Control
3.7 . Executive agrees that SunTrust will have no obligations to Executive under this  3 if Executive's employment terminates exclusively as a result of Executive's death or Executive has a Disability Termination.
Death or Disability
3.8 . Executive agrees that SunTrust will have no obligations to Executive under this  3 until Executive executes the form of release which is attached as Exhibit A to this Agreement and, further, will have no further obligations to Executive under this  3 if Executive revokes such release.
Release
4.1 Executive shall not during the Restricted Period, directly or indirectly, for himself or herself or on behalf of any Business Entity (as defined below) other than SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate, solicit or attempt to solicit any Customer for the purpose of marketing, providing, servicing, or selling, any product or service then marketed, provided, serviced, or sold by SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate in any line of business in connection with which Executive had Material Contact with such Customer. Nothing contained in this  4.1 will prohibit public advertising or public solicitations (such as television advertisements directed to the general public) of Customers, potential customers or clients of SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate in general so long as the advertising and solicitations are not specifically directed to Customers, potential customers or clients of SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate.
Restriction.
4.2 . For purposes of  4.1, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
(a) Business Entity. The term "Business Entity" shall mean any individual, partnership, association, corporation, trust, limited liability company, unincorporated organization, or any other business entity or enterprise.
(b) Customer. The term "Customer" shall mean any Business Entity to whom SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate provides any product or service, and with whom Executive had Material Contact.
(c) Material Contact. The term "Material Contact" shall mean any interaction between Executive and any Business Entity that takes place in an effort to establish, maintain, or further a business relationship on behalf of SunTrust or any SunTrust Affiliate.
Absent the Compensation Committee's written consent, Executive will not during the Restricted Period solicit to employ on Executive's own behalf or on behalf of any other person, firm or corporation, any person who was employed by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate during the term of Executive's employment by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate (whether or not such employee would commit a breach of contract), and who has not ceased to be employed by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate for a period of at least one (1) year. Nothing contained in this  5 will prohibit public advertising or public solicitations (such as want-ads directed to the general public) of any person employed during such period by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate in general so long as the advertising and solicitations are not specifically directed to any employee or former employee of SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate.
Executive hereby agrees that Executive will hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of SunTrust and each SunTrust Affiliate, and will not directly or indirectly use or disclose, any Trade Secret that Executive may have acquired during the term of Executive's employment by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate for so long as such information remains a Trade Secret.
Executive in addition agrees that during the Restricted Period Executive will hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of SunTrust and each SunTrust Affiliate, and will not directly or indirectly use or disclose, any Confidential or Proprietary Information that Executive may have acquired (whether or not developed or compiled by Executive and whether or not Executive was authorized to have access to such information) during the term of, in the course of, or as a result of Executive's employment by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate.
Executive acknowledges that the restrictions, prohibitions and other provisions set forth in this Agreement, including without limitation the Restricted Period, are reasonable, fair and equitable in scope, terms and duration; are necessary to protect the legitimate business interests of SunTrust; and are a material inducement to SunTrust to enter into this Agreement. Executive covenants that Executive will not challenge the enforceability of this Agreement nor will Executive raise any equitable defense to its enforcement. Further, Executive and SunTrust each agree not to knowingly make false or materially misleading statements or disparaging comments about the other during the Restricted Period.
Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be determined by binding arbitration in accordance with Title 9 of the United States Code and the applicable set of arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association. Judgment upon any award made in such arbitration may be entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction. All statutes of limitation which would otherwise be applicable in a judicial action brought by a party shall apply to any arbitration or reference proceeding hereunder. Neither SunTrust nor Executive shall appeal such award to or seek review, modification, or vacation of such award in any court or regulatory agency. Unless otherwise agreed, venue for arbitration shall be in Atlanta, Georgia. All of Executive's reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with such arbitration shall be paid in full by SunTrust promptly on written demand from Executive, including the arbitrators' fees, administrative fees, travel expenses, out-of-pocket expenses such as copying and telephone, court costs, witness fees and attorneys' fees; provided, however, SunTrust shall pay no more than $30,000 per year in attorneys' fees unless a higher figure is awarded in the arbitration, in which event SunTrust shall pay the figure awarded in the arbitration.
Reimbursement of reasonable costs and expenses under this  8 shall be administered consistent with the following additional requirements as set forth in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv): (1) Executive's eligibility for benefits in one year will not affect Executive's eligibility for benefits in any other year; (2) any reimbursement of eligible expenses will be made on or before the last day of the year following the year in which the expense was incurred; and (3) Executive's right to benefits is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. In the event Executive is a Key Employee, reimbursement for benefits under this  8 shall commence on the first day after the Key Employee Delay.
     
Executive's signature By: SunTrust Banks, Inc.
If SunTrust or SunTrust's independent accountants determine that any payments and benefits called for under this Agreement together with any other payments and benefits made available to Executive by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate will result in Executive being subject to an excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code or if such an excise tax is assessed against Executive as a result of any such payments and other benefits, SunTrust shall make a Gross Up Payment to or on behalf of Executive as and when any such determination or assessment is made, provided Executive takes such action (other than waiving Executive's right to any payments or benefits) as SunTrust reasonably requests under the circumstances to mitigate or challenge such tax. Any determination under this  9 by SunTrust or SunTrust's independent accountants shall be made in accordance with Section 280G of the Code and any applicable related regulations (whether proposed, temporary or final) and any related Internal Revenue Service rulings and any related case law and, if SunTrust reasonably requests that Executive take action to mitigate or challenge, or to mitigate and challenge, any such tax or assessment (other than waiving Executive's right to any payment or benefit) and Executive complies with such request, SunTrust shall provide Executive with such information and such expert advice and assistance from SunTrust's independent accountants, lawyers and other advisors as Executive may reasonably request and shall pay for all expenses incurred in effecting such compliance and any related fines, penalties, interest and other assessments. Any Gross Up Payment made to or on behalf of Executive under this  9 shall be made in compliance with Code Section 409A and by the end of the year following the year that the related taxes are remitted to the applicable taxing authority. In the event Executive is a Key Employee, reimbursement for any expenses and payment of any Gross Up Payment under this  9 shall commence on the first day after the Key Employee Delay. Reimbursement of any expenses incurred and related fines, penalties, interest and other assessments under this  9 shall be administered consistent with the additional requirements set forth in  8.
10.1 . This Agreement is for the personal services of Executive, and the rights and obligations of Executive under this Agreement are not assignable in whole or in part by Executive without the prior written consent of SunTrust. This Agreement is assignable in whole or in part to any successor to SunTrust. However, if SunTrust as part of any Change in Control transaction fails to assign SunTrust's obligations under this Agreement to SunTrust's successor or such successor fails to expressly agree to such assignment on or before the Change in Control, SunTrust shall provide to Executive the benefits described in  3 of this Agreement upon his or her Separation from Service at any time. Such benefits shall be paid or provided in accordance with the terms and requirements set forth in  3.
Assignment
10.2 . This Agreement will be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of Georgia (without reference to the choice of law principles thereof), except to the extent superseded by federal law.
Governing Law
10.3 . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
10.4 . The headings and captions used in this Agreement are used for convenience only and are not to be considered in construing or interpreting this Agreement. Any reference to a section () shall be to a section () of this Agreement unless there is an express reference to a section ( or Section) of the Code or the Exchange Act, in which event the reference shall be to the Code or to the Exchange Act, whichever is applicable.
Headings; References
10.5 . Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, this Agreement may be amended, and the observance of any term of this Agreement may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively), only with the written consent of SunTrust and Executive.
Amendments and Waivers
10.6 . Any provision of this Agreement held to be unenforceable under applicable law will be enforced to the maximum extent possible, and the balance of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect.
Severability
10.7 . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement of SunTrust and Executive with respect to the matters contemplated in this Agreement, and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements between SunTrust and Executive with respect to such transactions.
Entire Agreement
10.8 . Any notice required hereunder to be given by either SunTrust or Executive will be in writing and will be deemed effectively given upon personal delivery to the party to be notified or five (5) days after deposit with the United States Post Office by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the other party at the address set forth below or to such other address as either party may from time to time designate by ten (10) days advance written notice pursuant to this  10.8. All such written communication will be directed as follows:
Notices
If to SunTrust:
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
303 Peachtree St., NE, 30 Floor
th
Atlanta, GA 30308
If to Executive, to the most recent address Executive has provided to SunTrust for inclusion in Executive's personnel records.
10.9 . This Agreement shall be for the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, SunTrust and Executive and their respective heirs, personal representatives, legal representatives, successors and assigns, subject, however, to the provisions in  10.1 of this Agreement.
Binding Effect
10.10 . This Agreement is not an employment contract and shall not give Executive the right to continue in employment by SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate for any period of time or from time to time. Moreover, this Agreement shall not adversely affect the right of SunTrust or a SunTrust Affiliate to terminate Executive's employment with or without cause at any time.
Not an Employment Contract
, SunTrust and Executive have entered into this Agreement this day of , 2010, and such date shall be the Effective Date of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
      
     
Title: Corporate Executive Vice President
and Human Resources Director
This Waiver and Release Agreement ("Release") is entered into by and between SunTrust Banks, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and ("Executive").
      
WHEREAS, Executive and SunTrust Banks, Inc., are parties to a Change in Control Agreement ("CIC Agreement") which provides certain compensation and benefits to Executive in the event Executive's employment is terminated without Cause or Executive resigns for Good Reason in connection with a Change in Control, as those terms are defined in the CIC Agreement. Executive acknowledges that the compensation and/or benefits that Executive is to receive pursuant the CIC Agreement constitute full and adequate consideration for the promises and obligations set forth in this Release.
WHEREAS, Executive's execution of and failure to revoke this Release is a condition precedent to his or her right to receive any payments or benefits under Section 3 of the CIC Agreement, and Executive's compliance with the terms of this Release is a condition subsequent to Executive's right to receive any compensation or benefits under Section 3 of the CIC Agreement.
WHEREAS, Executive wants to waive and release SunTrust Banks, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates from liability for any claims Executive may have arising out of facts or events, known or unknown, occurring up to and including the date of execution of this Release.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and agreements contained in this Release and in the parties' CIC Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, SunTrust Banks, Inc. and Executive hereby agree as follows:
(a) Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Release shall be determined by binding arbitration in accordance with and subject to the same terms as those set forth in Section 8 of the CIC Agreement.
(b)
Executive agrees that this Release, together with the CIC Agreement, contains all the terms that are applicable to any conditions on Executive's right to receive compensation or benefits under this Release and the CIC Agreement and replaces all other agreements Executive may have with SunTrust related to these issues, except for any written qualified or nonqualified plan, incentive compensation plan, bonus plan or stock option agreement or stock award in which Executive has a vested benefit as of his or her last day of employment, and any SunTrust nonsolicitation agreement Executive may have executed previous to or while employed by SunTrust. Executive acknowledges that the terms of these plans, options or awards and nonsolicitation agreements shall remain in full force and effect following Executive's separation from SunTrust and shall not be superseded or replaced by this Release or any part thereof. Executive also agrees that this Release cannot be changed or enlarged except by a written amendment that is signed by SunTrust and Executive. If a dispute arises between SunTrust and Executive related to this Release, Executive understands that, it will be resolved in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia (without reference to the choice of law principles thereof), except to the extent superseded by federal law, and, with respect to arbitration, the Federal Arbitration Act. If any provision or portion of a provision of this Release is waived by SunTrust or Executive or is determined to be unlawful or unenforceable, the waiver or finding of unlawfulness or unenforceability will not act as a waiver or finding of unlawfulness or unenforceability of any other provision or portion of a provision of this Release.
(c)
Executive understands that this Release is not an admission by either SunTrust or Executive that any statute or law has been violated or that either SunTrust or Executive has acted improperly or violated any duty or obligation.
(d)
Executive agrees that the contents, terms and existence of this Release must be kept confidential, and that he or she will not reveal them to anyone, except Executive's spouse, attorney or accountant or unless required by law or regulatory or administrative agency, without the prior written consent of SunTrust. Executive also agrees not to make disparaging remarks related to Executive's employment with SunTrust, to SunTrust management, or to SunTrust's business operations generally at any time before or after Executive's last date of employment with SunTrust.
(e)
By signing this Release, Executive acknowledges that Executive has read and understands its terms, and that Executive has been advised to consult with an attorney about the Release and its binding effect on Executive's rights. Executive also acknowledges that he or she is satisfied with the terms of this Release, that its terms are binding on Executive and Executive's agents, personal representatives, successors and assigns, and that Executive is signing this Release on a knowing and voluntary basis. Executive understands and agrees that SunTrust has the right, without Executive's prior consent, to assign this Release to any successor, assignee, parent, affiliate, or subsidiary.
(f)
If Executive is forty (40) years old or older on the date he or she receives this Release, Executive understands that he or she is entitled to consider the terms of the Release for twenty-one (21) days after receiving it. Executive understands that he or she may sign it anytime within that twenty-one (21) day period. If Executive does not sign and return the Release on or before the twenty first (21) day after receiving it, Executive understands that he or she will not receive any payments or benefits under Section 3 of the CIC Agreement. If Executive is forty (40) years old or older on the date he or she receives this Release, Executive further understand that (i) he or she may revoke the Release within seven (7) days after signing it by delivering written notice of such revocation to Frances L. Breeden, Director of Human Resources, SunTrust Bank, SunTrust Plaza Gardens, 303 Peachtree Center Avenue, Suite 200, Mail Code GA-Atlanta-0636G, Atlanta, Georgia 30303 (Facsimile: 404-658-4294), (ii) the Release cannot become effective and enforceable until after the revocation period expires and (iii) Executive cannot receive any payments or benefits under the CIC Agreement if Executive revokes it within the seven (7) day period.
st
AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE
BEFORE SIGNING THE WAIVER AND RELEASE AGREEMENT, EXECUTIVE CERTIFIES THAT EXECUTIVE HAS READ PARAGRAPH 4(A) OF THE WAIVER AND RELEASE AGREEMENT AND SECTION 8 OF EXECUTIVE'S CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT. EXECUTIVE ALSO CERTIFIES THAT EXECUTIVE UNDERSTANDS THE FOLLOWING:


