FILE:STI/STI-8K-20110211133046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 7, 2011, Karen Williams informed the Board of Directors (the "Board") of SunTrust Banks, Inc. ("SunTrust") that she intends to retire from the Board effective immediately following the forthcoming annual meeting of shareholders, which is scheduled to be held on April 26, 2011. Accordingly, she has declined to be re-nominated for election to the Board. Additionally, Larry L. Prince has reached retirement age and is not eligible to be reelected to the Board. On February 8, 2011, the Board nominated Kyle Prechtl Legg for election to the Board. On February 11, 2011, SunTrust issued a news release announcing the intended retirements of Ms. Williams and Mr. Prince and the nomination of Ms. Legg. The news release is filed as exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 News release dated February 11, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
Contact: Hugh Suhr (404) 827-6813
February 11, 2011
For Immediate Release
ATLANTA  SunTrust Banks, Inc. (NYSE: STI) announced today that Larry L. Prince and Karen Hastie Williams plan to retire from the company's Board of Directors this year. In addition, the company announced that Kyle Prechtl Legg has been nominated to stand for election at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April.
Mr. Prince has reached retirement age for directors. Ms. Williams intends to devote more time to her personal and other professional interests. Both will serve as directors through the 2011 annual meeting but will not stand for re-election to the Board.
"Karen Williams and Larry Prince have served with distinction and faithfully represented the interests of the clients, shareholders and employees of SunTrust throughout their tenure," said James M. Wells III, SunTrust Chairman and CEO. "We are grateful for their insights, commitment and service, and look forward to benefitting from their ongoing contributions to their communities. At the same time, we look forward to welcoming Kyle Prechtl Legg to our Board, presuming her successful election at the upcoming meeting of SunTrust's shareholders."
Mr. Prince, 72, has been a director since 1996 and served as the Presiding Director of the non-management members of the SunTrust Banks, Inc., Board from 2004 to 2009. He is Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Genuine Parts Company, a publicly-traded company engaged in the distribution of automotive replacement parts, industrial replacement parts and office products.
Ms. Williams, 65, served as a director of Crestar Financial Corporation, a predecessor to SunTrust, and joined the SunTrust Board in 2002. She is a retired partner in the Washington, D.C. law firm of Crowell and Moring LLP, where she focused on legislative and government contracting matters. Prior to joining Crowell & Moring, she worked on Capitol Hill (including serving as chief counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on the Budget), and as part of the Carter administration as Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy in the Office of Management and Budget.
Ms. Legg, 59, is the former Chief Executive Officer of Legg Mason Capital Management (LMCM). She has more than 30 years of professional experience in the investment industry and is a chartered financial analyst. She began her career as a bank analyst with Alex Brown & Sons. She joined Legg Mason Capital Management in 1991 as a Vice President and Senior Analyst, and was named President of the firm n 1997 and Chief Executive Officer in March 2006. At LMCM, Ms. Legg built a leading global equity investment management business serving high-end institutional clients, including some of the world's largest sovereign wealth funds, domestic and foreign company pension plans, corporate funds, endowments and foundations. Ms. Legg also is a director of the Eastman Kodak Company.
i
SunTrust Banks, Inc., headquartered in Atlanta, is one of the nation's largest banking organizations, serving a broad range of consumer, commercial, corporate and institutional clients. As of December 31, 2010, SunTrust had total assets of $172.9 billion and total deposits of $123.0 billion. The Company operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high-growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states and a full array of technology-based, 24-hour delivery channels. The Company also serves clients in selected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit, trust and investment services. Through various subsidiaries the Company provides mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage, investment management, equipment leasing and investment banking services. SunTrust's Internet address is suntrust.com.


