FILE:STI/STI-8K-20121203181009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the Registrant or SunTrust) is scheduled to present at the Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference in New York city on Tuesday, December 4, 2012 at 11:40 a.m. (EST). William H. Rogers, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SunTrust, will make SunTrust's presentation. A copy of the presentation materials to be used by the Registrant during its presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. Such materials will also be available on the Registrant's web site at www.suntrust.com.
Information contained on the Registrant's website is not incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K. The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference into another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references Section 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the presentation materials speak as of the date thereof and the Registrant does not assume any obligation to update said information in the future. In addition, the Registrant disclaims any inference regarding the materiality of such information which otherwise may arise as a result of its furnishing such information under Item 7.01 of this report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1.    Presentation materials to be presented December 4, 2012 (furnished with the Commission as a part of this Form 8-K).        
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 



