FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20051021065019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 21, 2005, Registrant released its third quarter 2005 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
 
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On October 20, 2005, Registrant's Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program and Registrant is filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the press release made on October 21, 2005 describing the program as Exhibit 99.2 to this Report under Item 8.01 of Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
From time to time we and our representatives may provide information, whether orally or in writing, including certain statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report, that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Litigation Reform Act"). These forward-looking statements and other information are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by us using information currently available. In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, we are making investors aware that such forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, any exhibits to this Current Report and other public statements we make. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected or intended. Information concerning certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended June 30, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
 
Date: October 21, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 21, 2005  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today third-quarter earnings per share of 5 cents. This includes previously announced charges of 12 cents per share related to litigation matters and other items as well as a restructuring charge of 1 cent per share. Excluding these items, Xerox delivered adjusted earnings per share of 18 cents.
 
Xerox also announced plans to repurchase up to $500 million of the company's common stock.
 
"We met expectations by delivering another quarter of positive performance with revenue growth and earnings expansion," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer.
 
"Xerox's third-quarter results reflect the strength of our digital portfolio, especially in color where our industry-leading technology delivered 22-percent revenue growth," she added, citing strong sales of the company's DocuColor
multifunction devices and iGen3
Digital Production Press. "These digital systems combined with document management services flow through to boost our annuity revenue, continuing a positive trend that fuels total revenue growth. Our resources are aligned around a solid growth strategy - - and the strategy is working.
Xerox Reports Third-Quarter Earnings/ 2
 
"As important, the strength of our financial position gives us flexibility to compete effectively, invest in innovation and deliver a return to shareholders through initiatives like the share repurchase program."
 
In the third quarter, total revenue of $3.8 billion grew 1 percent year over year. Equipment sales increased 2 percent. Post-sale and financing revenue, which represents more than 70 percent of the company's total revenue, grew 1 percent as the revenue stream from digital products offset declines from the company's older light-lens technology.
 
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed digital technology that enables on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue declined 1 percent in the third quarter. Production equipment sale growth of 1 percent only partially offset a decline in production post-sale and financing revenue. Production color installs grew 5 percent reflecting strong placements of the iGen3. Installs of production monochrome systems grew 21 percent largely due to the success of the Xerox 4110 light production system.
production
 
In Xerox's business, which provides technology and services for workgroups of any size, equipment sales declined 1 percent and total revenue grew 2 percent. Equipment sale revenue was impacted by product mix with the company selling a greater proportion of lower-priced units compared to the third quarter of last year. Installs of digital office monochrome systems were up 21 percent reflecting increased placements of Xerox WorkCentre desktop multifunction systems. In office color, installs of multifunction systems were up 56 percent due to the success of the recently launched DocuColor 240/250 systems, and activity remained strong in installs of office color printers.
office
Xerox Reports Third-Quarter Earnings/ 3
 
Selling, administrative and general expenses decreased $25 million year over year and were 26.9 percent of revenue in the third quarter, a decline of 1 percentage point from third quarter of last year. Gross margins were 41.3 percent, a sequential improvement from second quarter of this year and down about 1 point year over year.
 
Xerox closed the quarter with operating cash flow of $162 million and a cash and short-term investments balance of $1.6 billion. Through the third quarter of this year, the company has generated close to $800 million in operating cash flow. Debt was down $3.3 billion year over year and declined by about $700 million from the second quarter of this year.
 
In a related announcement today, Xerox said its strong financial position prompted the board of directors to authorize the repurchase of up to $500 million of the company's common stock. Xerox's first stock buyback plan in nearly eight years, the company will use its healthy cash balance to repurchase stock over the next 12 months primarily through open-market purchases.
 
For the fourth quarter of 2005, Mulcahy said she expects earnings in the range of 25-29 cents per share, which includes anticipated additional restructuring charges of 5 cents per share.
 
 
Media Contacts:
 
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4644,
christa.carone@xerox.com
Michael Goodwin, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4663,
michael.goodwin@xerox.com
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and expectations, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those described in such statements. Information concerning certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in the company's second-quarter 2005 Form 10- Q filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Xerox Reports Third-Quarter Earnings/ 4
 
For presentation slides and more information about Xerox, visit . To receive its RSS news feed, visit www.xerox.com/news. XEROX, iGen3 and DocuColor are trademarks of XEROX CORPORATION.
www.xerox.com/investor
 
Note: Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to these financial statements to conform to the current year presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Appendix II for reclassification of prior-period amounts to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Summary
 
Revenues
 
 
Third quarter 2005 total revenues increased by 1% compared to the third quarter 2004. Currency impact on total revenues was negligible in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
Net Income
 
Third quarter 2005 net income was $63 million or $0.05 per diluted share, and included the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third quarter 2004 net income was $163 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, and included the following items:
 
 
 
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are enclosed as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
 
 
Equipment Sales
 
Equipment sales reflect the results of our technology investments and the associated product launches as approximately two-thirds of the third quarter 2005 equipment sales were generated from products launched in the past 24 months. During 2005 we have launched 43 new products through September, including 3 products in the third quarter.
 
The third quarter 2005 equipment sales growth was 2%, including a 1-percentage point currency benefit, reflecting growth in Production and DMO, partially offset by a 1% decline in Office. Color equipment sales of $390 million grew 31% in the third quarter 2005, and color sales represented 38% of total equipment sales in the third quarter 2005 versus 30% in the third quarter 2004.
 
Production
 
Production third quarter 2005 equipment sales grew 1% primarily reflecting install growth of 11% as well as, a 1-percentage point benefit from currency. These items were partially offset by price declines of 5% to 10% and product mix. The product mix reflects an increased proportion of black and white light production sales. Install activity consists of:
 
 
 
Office
 
Office third quarter 2005 equipment sales declined 1%, including a 1-percentage point currency benefit. Strong install growth was more than offset by price declines of 5% to
 
10% and product mix, which reflected an increased proportion of lower-end equipment sales. Install activity consists of:
 
 
 
 
DMO
 
DMO equipment sales consist primarily of Segment 1&2 (11-30 ppm) devices and printers. Equipment sales in the third quarter 2005 grew 18% reflecting strong growth in Eurasia and Central and Eastern Europe.
 
Post Sale and Other Revenue
 
Post sale revenue is largely a function of the equipment placed at customer locations, the volume of prints and copies that our customers make on that equipment, the mix of color pages, as well as associated services.
 
The third quarter post sale and other revenues grew 2%, including 1-percentage point of currency benefit. The growth areas (digital office, digital production and value added services) collectively grew 6%, and DMO grew 7%, more than offsetting a 40% decline in analog light lens products. Color post sale and other revenues grew 20% in the third quarter 2005, and color sales represented 27% of post sale and other revenue in the third quarter 2005 versus 23% in the third quarter 2004. In the third quarter 2005 approximately 7% of our pages were printed on color devices, which is 2-percentage points higher than the third quarter 2004. Color pages generate around five times more revenue and gross profit dollars than black and white pages.
 
Within post sale and other revenue, supplies, paper, and other sales of $703 million grew 8% year-over-year primarily reflecting growth in color consumables; while service, outsourcing, and rental revenue of $1,822 million declined 1% reflecting a decline in service and rental revenue, partially offset by growth in outsourcing revenue.
 
Production
 
Production third quarter 2005 post sale and other revenue declined 1% from the third quarter 2004 as declines in black and white were partially offset by growth in color. Currency impact was negligible in the quarter.
 
Office
 
Office third quarter 2005 post sale and other revenue growth of 4%, including a 1-percentage point benefit from currency, primarily reflected growth in digital black and white, color printing, and color multifunction products, which were partially offset by declines in older light lens technology.
 
DMO
 
DMO third quarter 2005 post sale and other revenue growth of 7% reflected growth in Eurasia and Central and Eastern Europe, more than offsetting declines in Brazil.
 
Other
 
Third quarter 2005 post sale and other revenue in the Other segment declined 5% due to declines in SOHO supply sales and value added services. The decline in value added services reflects the integration of a portion of our services contracts into our outsourcing business, the revenue from which is included in the Office and Production segments.
 
Key Ratios and Expenses
 
 
Gross Margin
 
Third quarter 2005 total gross margin of 41.3% declined 1.2-percentage points reflecting a change in product mix of 1.6-percentage points. Cost improvements of 1.9-percentage points more than offset the 1.3-percentage point impact of price declines.
 
Sales gross margin declined 3.7-percentage points driven by product mix and price declines, partially offset by cost improvements. The change in product mix reflects a higher proportion of sales of products with lower gross margins, including color printers and light production systems, and a lower proportion of sales of products with higher gross margins, including higher-end office black and white products and higher-end black and white production systems.
 
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin improved 1.4-percentage points reflecting favorable cost improvements, which more than offset unfavorable mix and price declines.
 
Research, Development and Engineering (R,D&E)
 
R,D&E of $242 million in the third quarter 2005 increased $8 million over the third quarter 2004. R&D of $196 million increased by $7 million reflecting increased spending in the Office segment. This was partially offset by lower expenditures in the Production segment as a result of recent product launches, and cost efficiencies we captured from our platform development strategy. Sustaining engineering costs of $46 million increased by $1 million.
 
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D remains strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
 
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG)
 
SAG expenses of $1,011 million in the third quarter were $25 million lower than the 2004 third quarter primarily reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Restructuring Charges
 
In the third quarter 2005, we recorded restructuring charges of $17 million related to the headcount reductions of approximately 300 employees in North America, across the Office and Production segments. The restructuring initiatives are focused on cost efficiencies in service, manufacturing, and back office support operations. The remaining restructuring reserve balance as of September 30, 2005, for all programs was $277 million, of which approximately $83 million is expected to be spent in the fourth quarter 2005.
 
Worldwide Employment
 
Worldwide employment of 56,300 declined approximately 1,000 from the second quarter 2005 primarily due to our on-going restructuring programs.
 
Other Expenses, net
 
 
Non-financing Interest Expense
 
Third quarter 2005 non-financing interest expense of $55 million was $36 million lower than the 2004 third quarter. $22 million of the decline relates to the conversion of the Xerox Capital Trust II preferred securities into common shares, in December 2004. The remainder was primarily due to lower average debt balances, partially offset by higher interest rates.
 
Interest Income
 
Third quarter 2005 interest income of $18 million increased $4 million reflecting higher rates of return, partially offset by lower average cash balances.
 
Currency Losses, net
 
Currency gains and losses offset each other in the third quarter 2005 compared to $20 million of net currency losses in the third quarter 2004. 2005 third quarter currency gains and losses reflect the following offsetting impacts:
 
 
 
Legal Matters
 
The third quarter 2005 legal expense of $107 million increased $100 million from the third quarter 2004, primarily reflecting:
 
 
 
All Other, net
 
Third quarter 2005 all other, net of $50 million increased $43 million from the third quarter 2004, primarily reflecting:
 
 
 
Income Tax Expense
 
In the third quarter 2005, we recorded income tax expense of $29 million compared with income tax expense of $62 million in the third quarter 2004. The effective tax rate for the third quarter 2005 was 37.7% versus 38.0% in the third quarter 2004.
 
The 2005 third quarter effective tax rate of 37.7% was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily reflecting:
 
 
 
 
The 2004 third quarter effective tax rate of 38.0% was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily reflecting:
 
 
 
Our effective tax rate will change based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors including the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter will approximate 36% and our full year rate will be 9%, which includes the benefit of the finalization of the 1996 - 1998 IRS audit recorded in the second quarter of 2005.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
 
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $23 million in the third quarter 2005 decreased $39 million from the third quarter 2004 reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle
 
We recorded an $8 million after-tax ($12 million pre-tax), charge for cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to the early adoption of FIN 47. This change in accounting principle primarily impacted our facility lease agreements that include the requirement to restore the facility to its original condition at lease termination. On a prospective basis, this accounting change requires recognition of these costs over the lease term. Prior to this accounting change these costs were recognized at lease termination.
 
Segment Operating Profit
 
 
Total segment operating profit of $266 million in the third quarter 2005 increased $18 million from 2004. The third quarter 2005 operating margin increased 0.4-percentage points year-over-year.
 
Production
 
Third quarter 2005 Production profit of $73 million declined $32 million from 2004. Operating profit margin declined 2.9-percentage points in the third quarter reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Office
 
Third quarter 2005 Office profit of $189 million increased $7 million from 2004. Operating profit margin increased 0.2-percentage points in the third quarter reflecting lower SAG, partially offset by lower gross margin impacted by mix and higher R,D&E.
 
DMO
 
Third quarter 2005 DMO profit of $18 million increased $14 million from 2004. Operating profit margin improved 3.0-percentage points in the third quarter. The $14 million increase in profit reflects higher gross profit and lower bad debt expense.
 
Other
 
Third quarter 2005 other operating loss of $14 million improved $29 million from the 2004 third quarter primarily reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
 
Cash Flow Analysis
 
The following table summarizes our cash flows for the three months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities of $162 million in the third quarter 2005 decreased $273 million from third quarter 2004 reflecting the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities of $70 million in the third quarter 2005 increased $52 million from third quarter 2004 reflecting the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities was $660 million in the third quarter 2005 compared to a $416 million cash source in the third quarter 2004. The $1,076 million change reflects the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities and Debt
 
The following table compares finance receivables to financing-related debt as of September 30, 2005:
 
 
During the third quarter 2005 we:
 
 
 
As of September 30, 2005, 46% of total finance receivables were encumbered as compared to 59% at December 31, 2004.
 
Our debt maturities for the remainder of 2005 and 2006 by quarter, 2007 through 2009 by year, and thereafter are as follows:
 
 
Consistent with our objective to rebalance the level of secured and unsecured debt, we expect payments on secured loans will continue to exceed proceeds from new secured loans in the fourth quarter of 2005.
 
Subsequent Event
 
The board of directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the company's common stock. The stock is expected to be repurchased over the next 12 months primarily through open-market purchases. Repurchases will be made in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's Rule 10b-18, and are subject to market conditions as well as applicable legal and other considerations.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and expectations, and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. Information concerning these factors is included in the company's second quarter 2005 Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following is a summary of the changes discussed in the Segment Revenue and Profit table of this document. The tables below illustrate the impact of these changes on segment quarterly operating profit for 2004 (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
One of the significant tools that management utilizes in evaluating the Company's past performance and allocating resources for the future periods is the measurement of the Company's financial performance against the original earnings guidance. In particular, management believes that the most comparable way to evaluate the Company's performance for this limited purpose is to exclude significant unanticipated items and events that did not form the basis of such original earnings guidance. Consequently, management has presented a financial measure of earnings per share ("Adjusted Earnings" and "Adjusted EPS") that constitutes a non-GAAP financial measure, as defined in the SEC rules, that excludes the effects of items and events that are significant and unanticipated, which in the periods presented are one or more of the following: (1) the restructuring charges previously announced in 2005, and (2) the following other charges previously disclosed in the Company Form 8-K dated October 5, 2005: litigation, losses from Hurricane Katrina, EU Directive and accounting change. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with additional and useful information by providing them with an insight into one of the significant tools that management uses to evaluate the Company's past performance and allocating resources for the future periods. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is set forth below:
 
 
NOTE TO THE EDITORS: This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and expectations, and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. Information concerning these factors is included in the company's second quarter 2005 Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
For more information about Xerox and to receive its RSS news feed, visit . XEROX is a trademark of XEROX CORPORATION.
www.xerox.com/news
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 21, 2005  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today that its board of directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the company's common stock.
 
"Xerox's strong financial and operating performance provides the opportunity to repurchase shares of our stock while continuing to make strategic investments in growing the business," said Lawrence A. Zimmerman, Xerox senior vice president and chief financial officer. "This action represents a major milestone in Xerox's well executed strategy to deliver increased returns to our shareholders."
 
In its earnings report released today, Xerox said it closed the third quarter with a cash and short-term investments balance of $1.6 billion. Debt was down $3.3 billion year over year. Through the third quarter of this year, the company has generated close to $800 million in operating cash flow.
 
Xerox expects to repurchase stock over the next 12 months primarily through open-market purchases. Repurchases will be made in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's Rule 10b-18, and are subject to market conditions as well as applicable legal and other considerations.
 
 
Media Contacts:
 
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-986-4644,
christa.carone@xerox.com
Michael Goodwin, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4663,
michael.goodwin@xerox.com
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and expectations, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those described in such statements. Information concerning certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in the company's second-quarter 2005 Form 10- Q filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.


