FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20060815170557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On August 15, 2006 Registrant issued a press release announcing its intent to raise $400 million through a senior unsecured note offering. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is a copy of Registrant's press release dated August 15, 2006 regarding the offering.
 
 
 
From time to time, we and our representatives may provide information, whether orally or in writing, including certain statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report, that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Litigation Reform Act"). These forward-looking statements and other information are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by us using information currently available. In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, we are making investors aware that such forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, any exhibits to this Current Report and other public statements we make. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or using other similar expressions. These factors include but are not limited to: the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other risks that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and our first-quarter and second-quarter 2006 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, which have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: August 15, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
STAMFORD, Conn., Aug. 15, 2006  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) expects to raise $400 million through a senior unsecured note offering announced today.
Proceeds from the offering will be used to support the company's customer financing activities through unsecured debt and for general corporate purposes. The notes, which are due in 2017 and will be issued in U.S. dollars by Xerox, will be sold under the company's effective shelf registration statement. The offering is subject to market and other conditions.
This press release is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy the notes, and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful.
Goldman, Sachs & Co., and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering. Offers for the notes are only to be made through the prospectus. A copy of the prospectus and prospectus supplement may be obtained by contacting Goldman, Sachs & Co., Attention: Prospectus Department, 85 Broad St., New York, NY 10004, or calling 1-212-902-1171.
Media Contact:
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4644,
christa.carone@xerox.com
NOTE TO EDITORS: This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other risks that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our 2005 Form 10-K and our first-quarter and second-quarter 2006 Form 10-Qs filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Xerox Bond Offering / 2
For more information on Xerox, visit . To receive its RSS news feed, visit . XEROX is a trademark of XEROX CORPORATION.
www.xerox.com
www.xerox.com/news


