FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20060424064757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 24, 2006, Registrant released its first quarter 2006 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
From time to time, we and our representatives may provide information, whether orally or in writing, including certain statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report, that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Litigation Reform Act"). These forward-looking statements and other information are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by us using information currently available. In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, we are making investors aware that such forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, any exhibits to this Current Report and other public statements we make. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or using other similar expressions. These factors include but are not limited to: the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other risks that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional information concerning these and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: April 24, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News from Xerox
For Immediate Release
Public Relations Office:
800 Long Ridge Road
Stamford, CT 06904
203-968-4644
 
 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, Conn., April 24, 2006  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today first-quarter 2006 earnings per share of 20 cents and total revenue of $3.7 billion.
Total revenue was impacted by 2 points of currency, contributing to a 2 percent decline. On a constant currency basis, total revenue was flat in the quarter. Equipment sale revenue declined 4 percent  down 2 percent in constant currency  offset by continued improvement from the company's post-sale revenue stream. Post-sale and financing revenue, which represents about 75 percent of Xerox's total revenue, declined 1 percent in the first quarter and grew 1 percent in constant currency.
"Our steady improvement in post-sale revenue shows that Xerox's business model is working. We also delivered solid product install growth, a more than 25 percent increase in signings for document management services, and 11 percent growth in revenue from Xerox color systems," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "For the past five years, we've been focused on building the install base of our digital document technology, especially color, and increasing demand for Xerox services. The post-sale revenue from this business generates a healthy annuity stream that fuels profitable growth.
Xerox Reports First-Quarter 2006 Earnings / 2
 
"While encouraged by annuity growth, I am disappointed in our gross profit decline. This was largely due to increased costs and had a direct impact on our first-quarter earnings," added Mulcahy. "We have consistently demonstrated excellent execution in controlling costs and are confident we'll be back on track next quarter. We've identified the issues and are taking the right actions, right now to readjust our cost base in line with our business model."
Gross margins were 40.2 percent, a year-over-year decrease of 1.6 points. The company's selling, administrative and general expenses were 26.6 percent of revenue, a modest improvement from 26.8 percent in the first quarter of 2005.
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed digital technology and services that enable on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue declined 3 percent in the first quarter and was flat in constant currency. Installs of production black-and-white systems increased 8 percent, reflecting the success of the Xerox 4110 light production system, which was partially offset by install declines of high-end publishing systems. Earlier this month, the company announced new finishing features for the Xerox Nuvera
production
digital production system. The company expects these features to help lift high-end production activity during the balance of the year. Production color installs grew 92 percent driven by increased demand for the DocuColor
240/250 multifunction device, the company's entry production color system that prints, copies and scans.
Xerox's business provides document technology and services for businesses of any size. Increased install activity for office systems was partially offset by declines in product pricing during the quarter. Total office revenue declined 1 percent and grew 1 percent in constant currency. Installs of office black-and-white systems were up 18 percent largely due to increased placements of Xerox's new line of
office
Xerox Reports First-Quarter 2006 Earnings / 3
 
WorkCentre
systems that print, copy, fax and scan. In office color, installs of multifunction systems were up 53 percent driven by the continued success of the office version of the DocuColor 240/250 systems. Install activity in color printers was up 4 percent.
The company also cited continued improvement in its with significant growth in Eurasia and Central and Eastern Europe driving total revenue growth of 6 percent in DMO.
developing markets operations
Xerox generated operating cash flow of $147 million and ended the quarter with $1.8 billion in cash and short-term investments. During the first quarter, the company repurchased $238 million of its common stock and issued $700 million in unsecured notes. Debt was down $1.9 billion year over year.
Xerox expects second-quarter 2006 earnings in the range of 22-24 cents per share, which includes a 1-cent charge related to the company's recent termination of its 2003 credit facility.
Media Contacts:
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4644, christa.carone@xerox.com
Bill McKee, Xerox Corporation, 585-423-4476, bill.mckee@xerox.com
NOTE TO EDITORS: This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and expectations, and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. Information concerning these factors is included in the company's 2005 Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
: To understand the trends in the business, Xerox believes that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Xerox refers to this adjusted growth as "constant currency." Developing Market currencies are shown at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant growth rates since these countries generally have volatile currency and inflationary environments. The company's operations in these countries have historically implemented pricing actions to recover the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes this measure gives investors an additional perspective of revenue trends. The currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Constant Currency
For the company's first-quarter 2006 management discussion and analysis, presentation slides and more information about Xerox, visit www.xerox.com/investor. To receive its RSS news feed, visit www.xerox.com/news. XEROX, Xerox Nuvera
and WorkCentre are trademarks of XEROX CORPORATION. DocuColor is used under license.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation to pre-tax income:
 
Color revenues represent a subset of total revenues.
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office, Developing Markets Operations ("DMO") and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 
Summary
 
Revenues
First quarter 2006 total revenues declined 2% compared to the first quarter 2005. Currency had a 2% negative impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
Net Income
First quarter 2006 net income of $200 million, or $0.20 per diluted share included a $24 million after-tax benefit from the resolution of certain tax matters associated with an ongoing 1999 to 2003 Internal Revenue Service audit.
First quarter 2005 net income of $210 million or $0.20 per diluted share included an after-tax gain of $58 million ($93 million pre-tax) related to the sale of our entire equity interest in Integic Corporation ("Integic"), offset by after-tax restructuring charges of $55 million ($85 million pre-tax).
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are enclosed as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Equipment Sales
Equipment sales reflect the results of our technology investments and the associated product launches as more than two-thirds of the first quarter 2006 equipment sales were generated from products launched in the past 24 months.
In the first quarter 2006 equipment sales of $947 million declined 4% from the first quarter 2005 reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Production
Production first quarter 2006 equipment sales declined approximately 9% including a 4-percentage point negative impact from currency and reflected price declines of 4% as well as product mix, which were partially offset by strong install growth. The product mix reflected a lower proportion of high-end black and white production installs compared to the first quarter 2005. Production system install activity included:
 
 
Office
Office first quarter 2006 equipment sales revenue declined 3%, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency as well as price declines of approximately 9%, which more than offset the impact of growth in office product installs. Office product install activity included:
 
 
 
DMO
DMO equipment sales consist of office and production products, including a large proportion of sales of Segment 1&2 (11-30 ppm) office devices and printers. Equipment sales in the first quarter 2006 grew 8% reflecting strong growth in Eurasia and Central and Eastern Europe, and reflecting strong sales of Segment 1&2 devices, as well as install growth in light production black and white and production color systems.
Post Sale and Other Revenue
Post sale revenue is largely a function of the equipment placed at customer locations, the volume of prints and copies that our customers make on that equipment, the mix of color pages, as well as associated services.
The first quarter 2006 post sale and other revenue of $2,535 million declined 1% compared to the first quarter 2005 reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Within post sale and other revenue, service, outsourcing, and rental revenue of $1,816 million declined 2% reflecting a decline in service and rental revenue, partially offset by growth in outsourcing revenue. Supplies, paper, and other sales of $719 million grew 2% year-over-year primarily reflecting growth in paper sales, which offset a decline in licensing revenue.
 
Production
Production first quarter 2006 post sale and other revenue declined 1%, including a 3-percentage point negative impact from currency and reflected growth in color products which was partially offset by declines in revenue from high-end black and white digital products and older light lens technology.
Office
Office first quarter 2006 post sale and other revenue was unchanged from first quarter 2005, including a 3-percentage point negative impact from currency and reflected growth in color multifunction devices and color printers, which was partially offset by declines in black and white light lens products.
DMO
DMO first quarter 2006 post sale and other revenue growth of approximately 5% was primarily driven by strong growth in Eurasia and Central and Eastern Europe.
Other
Post sale and other revenue within the Other segment declined 8% in the first quarter 2006. The decline was primarily driven by a $23 million decrease in licensing revenue, which was partially offset by an increase in paper. Paper and other supplies revenue comprised approximately two-thirds of first quarter 2006 Other segment post sale and other revenue.
Key Ratios and Expenses
 
Gross Margin
First quarter 2006 of 40.2% decreased 1.6-percentage points compared to first quarter 2005 as cost improvements of 0.6-percentage points were more than offset by the impact of price declines and product mix of 2.3-percentage points. Price declines are largely equipment-related and were in line with historical levels. Product mix was a factor in the production segment and was also impacted by growth in DMO. The level of cost improvements did not keep pace with price and mix largely due to issues in technical and managed services, which are being addressed.
total gross margin
declined 2.7-percentage points primarily due to the impact of price declines and product mix. The impact of price declines was primarily a result of price actions taken on office black and white multifunction products and color printers. The impact of product mix was primarily a result of lower high-end production black and white sales, growth in DMO, and growth in paper. Sales gross margin was also
Sales gross margin
 
impacted by a $23 million year-over-year decline in licensing revenue, which has a high gross margin, and therefore negatively impacted margin by 0.4-percentage points.
declined 1.0-percentage point as the impact of cost and other improvements of 1.0-percentage point was more than offset by the impact of price declines and product mix of 1.9-percentage points. While the level of price declines and impact of product mix were comparable year-over-year, the level of cost improvements was negatively impacted by higher technical service related to the transition to a flexible service workforce as well as start up costs associated with new managed services contracts.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin
Research, Development and Engineering ("R,D&E")
R,D&E of $225 million in the first quarter 2006 was unchanged from the first quarter 2005. R&D of $179 million decreased by $4 million reflecting lower spending in Production, which was only partially offset by increased spending in Office. The lower spending in Production was a result of recent product launches and the cost efficiencies captured from our platform development strategy. Sustaining engineering costs of $46 million increased by $4 million primarily due to significant product launches over the past several months.
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D remains strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
SAG expenses of $983 million in the first quarter 2006 were $26 million lower than the first quarter 2005, including a $22 million benefit from currency. The decrease in SAG expenses reflected the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring Charges
During the first quarter 2006, we did not incur any net incremental restructuring charges. The restructuring reserve balance as of March 31, 2006, for all programs was $159 million, of which approximately $140 million is expected to be spent over the remainder of 2006.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 55,100 declined approximately 100 from year-end 2005 reflecting activity from on-going restructuring programs.
 
Other Expenses (Income), Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
First quarter 2006 non-financing interest expense of $54 million was $7 million lower than the first quarter 2005. The decline is primarily due to lower average debt balances, partially offset by higher interest rates.
Interest Income
First quarter 2006 interest income of $15 million decreased $3 million reflecting lower average cash balances, which was partially offset by higher rates of return.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
Gains on sales of businesses and assets decreased $96 million from the first quarter 2005, primarily due to a pre-tax gain of $93 million related to the sale of Integic, which was recognized in the first quarter 2005.
Currency Losses, Net
Currency gains and losses netted a loss of $14 million in the first quarter 2006 compared to a loss of $16 million in the first quarter 2005. Net first quarter 2006 currency losses reflect the following:
 
 
Income Tax Expense
In the first quarter 2006, we recorded income tax expense of $47 million compared with income tax expense of $116 million in the first quarter 2005. The effective tax rate for the first quarter 2006 was 22.6% versus 40.1% in the first quarter 2005.
The 2006 first quarter effective tax rate of 22.6% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily reflecting a tax benefit of $24 million from the resolution of certain tax issues associated with our ongoing 1999 to 2003 Internal Revenue Service audit. We anticipate finalization of this audit in 2006.
 
The 2005 first quarter effective tax rate of 40.1% was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily reflecting the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, and losses in certain jurisdictions where we are not providing tax benefits and continue to maintain deferred tax valuation allowances.
Our effective tax rate is based on recurring factors including the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, as well as available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events (such as audit settlements) that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remainder of the year will approximate 34.0%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events, and we expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 32.0%.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $39 million in the first quarter 2006 was $2 million higher than the first quarter 2005 primarily reflecting growth in income from Fuji Xerox.
Segment Operating Profit
 
Total segment operating profit of $247 million in the first quarter 2006 was $165 million lower than the first quarter 2005. The first quarter 2006 operating margin declined 4.2-percentage points year-over-year.
 
Production
First quarter 2006 Production profit of $67 million declined $34 million from 2005. Operating profit margin declined 2.9-percentage points in the first quarter. The decline in operating profit is primarily due to reduced gross margins, which were impacted by lower installs of high-end production systems and higher technical service costs, as well as growth in color products.
Office
First quarter 2006 Office profit of $160 million declined $32 million from 2005. Operating profit margin declined 1.6-percentage points in the first quarter impacted by lower gross margins, primarily due to price declines in black and white multifunction devices and color printers; and higher R,D&E.
DMO
First quarter 2006 DMO profit of $17 million increased $7 million from 2005. Operating profit margin improved 1.5-percentage points in the first quarter. The $7 million increase in profit reflects higher gross profit and lower SAG expenses.
Other
First quarter 2006 Other operating profit of $3 million declined $106 million from first quarter 2005 primarily due to a $93 million pre-tax gain on the sale of Integic recognized in 2005, as well as lower licensing revenue compared to first quarter 2005.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
Cash Flow Analysis
The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005:
 
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities of $147 million in the first quarter 2006 decreased $190 million from first quarter 2005. While net income declined by $10 million, the reduction in income tax expense of $69 million had a marginal impact on cash flow, as income tax payments were essentially flat year-over-year. Other changes in operating cash flows included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash provided by investing activities of $56 million in the first quarter 2006 decreased $37 million from first quarter 2005 reflecting the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities of $62 million in the first quarter 2006 increased by $386 million from first quarter 2005 reflecting the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities and Debt
The following table compares finance receivables to financing-related debt as of March 31, 2006:
 
 
 
As of March 31, 2006, 40% of total finance receivables were encumbered as compared to 44% at December 31, 2005. Also as of March 31, 2006, approximately 43% of total debt was secured by finance receivables and other assets compared to 49% at December 31, 2005. Consistent with our objective to rebalance the ratio of secured and unsecured debt, we expect payments on secured loans will continue to exceed proceeds from new secured loans for the balance of 2006. We expect the level of secured debt as a percent of total debt to approximate 35% by the end of 2006. Our debt maturities are as follows:
 
 
Recent Accounting Changes
On January 1, 2006, we adopted FAS 123(R), "Share-Based Payments" using the modified prospective transition method and therefore we did not restate the results of prior periods. The adoption of FAS 123(R) was immaterial to our results of operations primarily as a result of changes made in our stock-based compensation programs in 2005 as well as the accelerated vesting of substantially all outstanding unvested stock options prior to the adoption of FAS 123(R). Our results of operations for the 2006 and 2005 first quarters included stock-based compensation expense of $7 million ($11 million pre-tax) and $6 million ($10 million pre-tax), respectively.
Recent Events
On April 7, 2006, we entered into a $1.25 billion unsecured credit facility ("2006 Credit Facility"), and terminated our existing $1.0 billion secured credit facility ("2003 Credit Facility"), which was entered into in June 2003. Upon termination of the 2003 Credit Facility, the company repaid all advances outstanding thereunder, including a $300 million secured term loan. The termination of the 2003 Credit Facility resulted in the write-off of the remaining unamortized deferred debt issuance costs of approximately $13 million. Further details regarding the 2006 Credit Facility are available within the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 7, 2006.
Following a review of the 2006 actuarial valuation results and given our strong liquidity position, we elected to contribute $226 million to our tax qualified U.S. pension plans in April 2006 for the purpose of making those plans 100 percent funded on a current liability basis under ERISA funding rules.
Other Items
Reference has been made in this press release to "signings for document management services." Services signings represents management's estimate of the total contract life value of managed services and value-added services contracts signed within the period. This estimate includes new contracts, renewals, extensions, and amendments to existing contracts. The total contract life value is defined as the average monthly commitment minimum multiplied by the number of months in the contract, plus an estimate of any other revenue related to the contract, but not included in the minimum. If a contract does not have a monthly commitment minimum, management develops an estimate based on historical and expected usage patterns and other relevant information. Our contracts have terms that generally range from 3 to 5 years.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and expectations, and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. Information concerning these factors is included in the company's 2005 Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 


