FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20060125065007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 25, 2006, Registrant released its fourth quarter 2005 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
 
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
From time to time we and our representatives may provide information, whether orally or in writing, including certain statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report, that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Litigation Reform Act"). These forward-looking statements and other information are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by us using information currently available. In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, we are making investors aware that such forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, any exhibits to this Current Report and other public statements we make. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected or intended. Information concerning certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended September 30, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
 
Date: January 25, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, Conn., Jan. 25, 2006  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today fourth-quarter 2005 earnings per share of 27 cents, reflecting an 18-percent increase in net income from fourth-quarter 2004. The company also announced plans to repurchase an additional $500 million of its common stock and said it expects to deliver full-year 2006 earnings at the high end of the company's guidance.
 
"Our earnings performance in the fourth quarter met expectations with increased gross margins, lower costs and operational improvements," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "We delivered another quarter  and another year  of earnings growth. Our strong financial position, with full-year operating cash flow of $1.4 billion, gives us the flexibility to invest back in the business and enhance shareholder value through an expanded share repurchase plan.
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2005 Earnings / 2
 
"During the quarter, equipment sales were impacted by a more significant shift in product mix with stronger sales of lower-priced systems. At the same time, demand and install activity accelerated for key products like entry-level color production systems and office desktop multifunction devices," added Mulcahy. "This increased activity fuels future post-sale revenue  the engine of growth for Xerox's annuity-based business. We're confident that the short-term impact on equipment sale revenue will deliver long-term gains in top-line growth.
 
"As important, our leadership in digital color printing continues to deliver strong results," said Mulcahy. "Revenue from color grew 17 percent in the fourth quarter and color now represents 32 percent of our total revenue, up 5 points from last year."
 
In the fourth quarter, the company's equipment sales and total revenue of $4.3 billion were impacted by 3 points of currency, contributing to a 2-percent decline. On a constant currency basis, total revenue and equipment sales grew 1 percent. Post-sale and financing revenue, which represents about 70 percent of Xerox's total revenue, declined 2 percent and was flat in constant currency.
 
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed digital technology and services that enables on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue declined 2 percent in the fourth quarter and grew 2 percent in constant currency. Installs of production monochrome systems increased 19 percent, reflecting the success of the Xerox 4110 light production system and growth in production publishing. Production color installs grew 58 percent driven by increased demand for the DocuColor 240/250 multifunction system and the Xerox iGen3 Digital Production Press.
production
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2005 Earnings / 3
 
In Xerox's business, which provides technology and services for workgroups of any size, revenue declined 3 percent and was flat in constant currency. Installs of digital office monochrome systems were up 20 percent largely due to increased placements of Xerox WorkCentre desktop multifunction systems. In office color, installs of multifunction systems were up 53 percent driven by the success of the recently launched office version of the DocuColor 240/250 systems. Install activity in color printers was up 27 percent.
office
 
The company also cited continued improvement in its with significant growth in Eurasia and Central and Eastern Europe fueling total revenue growth of 11 percent in DMO.
developing markets operations
 
Xerox's focus on productivity improvements resulted in lower expenses and improved gross margins. Selling, administrative and general expenses decreased $37 million year over year and were 24.6 percent of revenue in the fourth quarter. Gross margins were 41.4 percent, a year-over-year increase of about half a point.
 
In the fourth quarter, Xerox generated operating cash flow of $631 million. The company ended the year with $1.6 billion in cash and short-term investments while also repurchasing $433 million of its common stock during the fourth quarter. Debt was down $2.8 billion year over year and declined by about $200 million from the third quarter of 2005.
 
Building on the company's October 2005 announcement of a $500 million stock buyback program, Xerox now plans to use its healthy cash flow to repurchase an additional $500 million in its common stock over the next 6 months to 12 months, primarily through open-market purchases.
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2005 Earnings / 4
 
Xerox expects first-quarter 2006 earnings in the range of 20-23 cents per share. The company also reiterated its full-year 2006 guidance of $1.00-$1.07 per share. Mulcahy indicated that she now expects the company will deliver full-year earnings in the high end of this range.
 
Full-Year 2005 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Media Contacts:
 
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4644,
christa.carone@xerox.com
 
Michael Goodwin, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4663,
michael.goodwin@xerox.com
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and expectations, and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. Information concerning these factors is included in the company's third quarter 2005 Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Constant Currency: To understand the trends in the business, Xerox believes that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Xerox refers to this adjusted growth as "constant currency." Developing Market currencies are shown at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant growth rates since these countries generally have volatile currency and inflationary environments. The company's operations in these countries have historically implemented pricing actions to recover the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes this measure gives investors an additional perspective of revenue trends. The currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
 
For the company's fourth-quarter 2005 management discussion and analysis, presentation slides and more information about Xerox, visit . To receive its RSS news feed, visit . XEROX, iGen3 and WorkCentre are trademarks of XEROX CORPORATION. DocuColor is used under license.
www.xerox.com/investor
www.xerox.com/news
 
 
Note: Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to these financial statements to conform to the current year presentation.
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation to pre-tax income:
 
 
 
See Appendix II for reclassification of prior-period amounts to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
Summary
 
 
Revenues
 
Fourth quarter 2005 total revenues declined 2% compared to the fourth quarter 2004. Currency had a 3% negative impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
 
Fourth quarter 2005 net income was $282 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, including a $51 million after tax ($70 million pre-tax), or $0.05 per diluted share, charge related to restructuring. During the quarter the company realized a $37 million reduction in income tax expense from fourth quarter 2004 due to the increased utilization of foreign tax credits.
 
Fourth quarter 2004 net income was $240 million, or $0.24 per diluted share and included a $13 million after tax ($24 million pre-tax), charge related to restructuring. The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are enclosed as Appendix I.
Operations Review
 
 
Equipment Sales
 
Equipment sales reflect the results of our technology investments and the associated product launches as more than two-thirds of the fourth quarter 2005 equipment sales were generated from products launched in the past 24 months. During 2005 we launched 49 new products including 6 products in the fourth quarter.
 
In the fourth quarter 2005 equipment sales of $1,406 million declined 2% from the 2004 fourth quarter reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Production
 
Production fourth quarter 2005 equipment sales declined 1% including a 3-percentage point negative impact from currency reflecting strong install growth, which was offset by product mix. The product mix reflected an increased proportion of entry production
color and light production black and white sales as compared to the fourth quarter 2004. Production system install activity included:
 
 
 
Office
 
Office fourth quarter 2005 equipment sales declined 4%, including a 3-percentage point negative impact from currency. Strong install growth was more than offset by price declines of approximately 10% and product mix, which reflected an increased proportion of lower-end equipment sales compared to fourth quarter 2004. Office product install activity included:
 
 
 
 
DMO
 
DMO equipment sales consist of office and production products, including a large proportion of sales of Segment 1&2 (11-30 ppm) office devices and printers. Equipment sales in the fourth quarter 2005 grew 16% reflecting strong growth in Eurasia and Central and Eastern Europe, and reflecting strong sales of Segment 1&2 devices, as well as install growth in light production black and white and production color systems.
 
Post Sale and Other Revenue
 
Post sale revenue is largely a function of the equipment placed at customer locations, the volume of prints and copies that our customers make on that equipment, the mix of color pages, as well as associated services.
 
The fourth quarter 2005 post sale and other revenue of $2,633 million declined 1% compared to the fourth quarter 2004 reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Within post sale and other revenue, supplies, paper, and other sales of $752 million grew 2% year-over-year primarily reflecting growth in supplies; while service, outsourcing, and rental revenue of $1,881 million declined 2% reflecting a decline in service and rental revenue, partially offset by growth in outsourcing revenue.
 
Production
 
Production fourth quarter 2005 post sale and other revenue declined 3%, including a 3-percentage point negative impact from currency, and reflecting declines in revenue from black and white digital products and older light lens technology, which were partially offset by growth in color products.
 
Office
 
Office fourth quarter 2005 post sale and other revenue was unchanged from fourth quarter 2004, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency and reflecting growth in color printing and color multifunction products, which was partially offset by declines in black and white digital and light lens products.
 
DMO
 
DMO fourth quarter 2005 post sale and other revenue growth of approximately 8% was primarily driven by strong growth in Eurasia and Central and Eastern Europe.
 
Other
 
Post sale and other revenue within the Other segment declined 8% in the fourth quarter 2005. Declines in paper and other supplies (including SOHO supplies), which comprised approximately two-thirds of segment revenues, were partially offset by growth in value added services.
 
Key Ratios and Expenses
 
 
Gross Margin
 
Fourth quarter 2005 of 41.4% increased 0.4-percentage points compared to fourth quarter 2004 reflecting cost improvements of 3.3percentage points, which more than offset a 2.8-percentage point impact due to product mix and price declines.
total gross margin
was unchanged as cost improvements offset the impact of price declines and product mix. Product mix reflects a higher proportion of sales of products with lower gross margins, including office printers and light production systems, and a lower proportion of sales of products with higher gross margins such as higher end office black and white multifunction devices and high-end production black and white systems.
Sales gross margin
 
improved 1.1-percentage points as cost improvements more than offset the impact of price declines and unfavorable product mix.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin
 
Research, Development and Engineering (R,D&E)
 
R,D&E of $234 million in the fourth quarter 2005 increased $4 million over the fourth quarter 2004. R&D of $188 million decreased by $4 million reflecting lower spending in Production, which was only partially offset by increased spending in Office. The lower spending in Production was a result of recent product launches and the cost efficiencies captured from our platform development strategy. Sustaining engineering costs of $46 million increased by $8 million primarily due to increased Production spending related to environmental compliance activities.
 
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D remains strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
 
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG)
 
SAG expenses of $1,044 million in the fourth quarter 2005 were $37 million lower than the fourth quarter 2004, including an $18 million benefit from currency. The decrease in SAG expenses reflected the following:
 
 
 
 
Restructuring Charges
 
In the fourth quarter 2005, we recorded restructuring charges of $70 million related to the headcount reductions of approximately 1,000 employees primarily in North America, across the Office and Production segments. The restructuring initiatives are focused on creating cost efficiencies in our manufacturing and back office support operations. The remaining restructuring reserve balance as of December 31, 2005, for all programs was $236 million.
Worldwide Employment
 
Worldwide employment of 55,200 declined approximately 1,100 from the third quarter 2005 primarily due to our on-going restructuring programs.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
 
Fourth quarter 2005 non-financing interest expense of $53 million was $40 million lower than the 2004 fourth quarter. $16 million of the decline relates to the conversion of the Xerox Capital Trust II preferred securities into common shares, in December 2004. The remainder was primarily due to lower average debt balances, partially offset by higher interest rates. The conversion of the Xerox Capital Trust II preferred securities did not impact EPS as the reduction in interest expense was offset by the increase in outstanding shares  see Appendix I for details.
 
Interest Income
 
Fourth quarter 2005 interest income of $14 million decreased $3 million reflecting lower average cash balances, which was partially offset by higher rates of return.
 
Currency Gains, Net
 
Currency gains and losses netted a gain of $5 million in the fourth quarter 2005 compared to a loss of $27 million in the fourth quarter 2004. Net fourth quarter 2005 currency gains reflect the following offsetting impacts:
 
 
 
Legal Matters
 
Fourth quarter 2005 legal expense of $9 million increased $15 million as compared to the fourth quarter 2005 and includes an additional $7 million of interest expense recorded as a result of the previously disclosed MPI legal matter.
Income Tax Expense
 
In the fourth quarter 2005, we recorded income tax expense of $83 million compared with income tax expense of $120 million in the fourth quarter 2004. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter 2005 was 23.9% versus 36.6% in the fourth quarter 2004.
 
The 2005 fourth quarter effective tax rate of 23.9% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% due to the benefits associated with the increased utilization of foreign tax credits.
 
The 2004 fourth quarter effective tax rate of 36.6% was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily reflecting:
 
 
 
Our effective tax rate is based on recurring factors including the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, as well as available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events (such as audit settlements) that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for 2006 will approximate 34.0%, excluding the effects of any discrete events.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
 
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $18 million in the fourth quarter 2005 decreased $14 million from the fourth quarter 2004 reflecting:
 
 
Segment Operating Profit
 
 
Total segment operating profit of $446 million in the fourth quarter 2005 increased $64 million from the fourth quarter 2004. The fourth quarter 2005 operating margin increased 1.7-percentage points year-over-year.
 
Production
 
Fourth quarter 2005 Production profit of $174 million declined $28 million from 2004. Operating profit margin declined 2-percentage points in the fourth quarter reflecting reduced gross margins impacted by mix. Color production operating margin continues to improve reflecting the scaling of product platforms.
 
Office
 
Fourth quarter 2005 Office profit of $265 million increased $24 million from 2004. Operating profit margin increased 1.5-percentage points in the fourth quarter reflecting lower SAG and higher gross margin, partially offset by higher R,D&E.
 
DMO
 
Fourth quarter 2005 DMO profit of $17 million increased $11 million from 2004. Operating profit margin improved 2.0-percentage points in the fourth quarter. The $11 million increase in profit reflects higher gross profit and lower SAG expenses.
Other
 
Fourth quarter 2005 other operating loss of $10 million improved $57 million from the 2004 fourth quarter primarily reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
 
Cash Flow Analysis
 
The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities of $631 million in the fourth quarter 2005 decreased $185 million from fourth quarter 2004 reflecting $42 million higher net income that was more than offset by the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities of $81 million in the fourth quarter 2005 increased $1 million from fourth quarter 2004 reflecting the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities of $568 million in the fourth quarter 2005 decreased $443 million from fourth quarter 2004 reflecting the following:
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities and Debt
 
The following table compares finance receivables to financing-related debt as of December 31, 2005:
 
 
During the fourth quarter 2005 we:
 
 
As of December 31, 2005, 44% of total finance receivables were encumbered as compared to 59% at December 31, 2004.
 
Our debt maturities are as follows:
 
 
Recent Events
 
The board of directors has approved an additional authorization to repurchase up to $500 million of the company's common stock. The company expects the stock to be repurchased over the next 6-12 months, primarily through open-market purchases. Open-market repurchases will be made in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's Rule 10b-18, and are subject to market conditions as well as applicable legal and other considerations.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and expectations, and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. Information concerning these factors is included in the company's third quarter 2005 Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following is a summary of the changes discussed in the Segment Revenues and Segment Operating Profit table of this document. The tables below illustrate the impact of these changes on segment quarterly operating profit for 2004 (in millions):
 
 
 


