FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20070123065718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 23, 2007, Registrant released its fourth quarter 2006 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
From time to time, we and our representatives may provide information, whether orally or in writing, including certain statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report, that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Litigation Reform Act"). These forward-looking statements and other information are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by us using information currently available. In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, we are making investors aware that such forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, any exhibits to this Current Report and other public statements we make. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or using other similar expressions. These factors include but are not limited to: the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first, second and third quarters of 2006 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: January 23, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, Conn., Jan. 23, 2007  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today fourth-quarter 2006 earnings per share of 22 cents, including a restructuring charge of 16 cents per share. This compares to fourth-quarter 2005 earnings per share of 27 cents, which included a 5 cent restructuring charge. Excluding restructuring, Xerox delivered adjusted EPS of 38 cents, an increase of 19 percent over fourth-quarter 2005 adjusted EPS of 32 cents.
"Xerox delivered solid performance in the fourth quarter, contributing to another year of double-digit earnings growth," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer.
"It was a year of steady improvements across the board," she added. "We grew revenue through stronger annuity and expanded our industry-leading portfolio of products and services. We acquired companies that broaden our share of the fast-growing document management and production color printing markets. We generated $1.6 billion of operating cash flow, returned to investment grade and bought back $1.1 billion of Xerox shares. As important, we managed our operations efficiently, giving us the flexibility to compete effectively while delivering value for shareholders."
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2006 Earnings / 2
Total revenue of $4.4 billion grew 3 percent in the fourth quarter. Post-sale and financing revenue, which represents about 70 percent of Xerox's total revenue, increased 5 percent, largely driven by 7 percent post-sale growth from digital systems. Both total revenue and post-sale revenue included a currency benefit of 3 percentage points.
"Our annuity stream is fueled by increasing sales of Xerox color systems, which generated more than 30 billion color pages last year, and accelerating demand for Xerox's consulting and outsourcing services," said Mulcahy. "This focused strategy yielded strong results in the fourth quarter. Post-sale revenue from color was up 18 percent and post-sale revenue from global services grew 8 percent. Total color revenue increased 13 percent and signings for document management services were up more than 15 percent."
Color now accounts for about 37 percent of Xerox's total revenue, up 3 points from the fourth quarter of 2005. The number of pages printed on Xerox color systems grew 36 percent in the fourth quarter. And, color now represents 10 percent of total pages, a year-over-year increase of 2 points.
Equipment sale revenue was down 1 percent in the fourth quarter including a 3 point benefit from currency. However, strong install growth of key products is expected to drive future gains in the company's post-sale revenue. Xerox's investment in innovation led to the launch of 14 products in 2006 that together earned 208 industry awards. The company expects to more than double its number of product announcements this year. About two-thirds of Xerox's equipment sales come from products launched in the past two years.
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed digital printing and services that enable on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue increased 3 percent in the fourth quarter including a 4 point currency benefit. Installs of production black-and-white systems declined 6 percent with growth in light production only partially offsetting declines in higher-end production printing. Production color installs grew 40 percent, reflecting accelerated activity for the Xerox iGen3 Digital Production Press and continued strong demand for the DocuColor 5000 as well as the DocuColor 240/250 multifunction system.
production
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2006 Earnings / 3
Xerox's business provides document technology and services for businesses of any size. Total office revenue was up 1 percent in the fourth quarter including a 3 point currency benefit. Installs of office black-and-white systems were up 13 percent driven by 13 percent growth from Xerox's desktop devices like the WorkCentre 4150, and 11 percent growth in its mid-range line of multifunction devices. In office color, installs of multifunction systems were up 39 percent reflecting strong demand for the color WorkCentre family. In November, Xerox launched three more products for small businesses including the Phaser 6110, its most affordable desktop color laser printer at a starting price of $249. Xerox said it will launch several more office color systems next month.
office
The company also cited continued improvement in its . Total revenue grew 8 percent in DMO.
developing markets operations
Gross margins were 41.1 percent, about flat from fourth quarter of 2005. Selling, administrative and general expenses were 23.3 percent of revenue, a year-over-year improvement of 1.3 points and the lowest percentage of revenue in more than 15 years.
Xerox generated operating cash flow of $720 million in the fourth quarter and ended the year with $1.5 billion in cash and short-term investments. Also during the fourth quarter, Xerox closed on the $54 million cash acquisition of XMPie, the leading provider of software for personalized, multimedia marketing campaigns.
Since launching its stock buyback program in October 2005, the company to date has repurchased about 100 million shares, totaling $1.5 billion of its $2 billion program.
Xerox expects first-quarter 2007 earnings in the range of 21-23 cents per share.
Full-Year 2006 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
Media Contacts:
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4644,
christa.carone@xerox.com
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2006 Earnings / 4
Bill McKee, Xerox Corporation, 585-423-4476,
bill.mckee@xerox.com
: This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our 2005 Form 10-K and first, second and third quarter 2006 Form 10-Qs filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
NOTE TO EDITORS
: The Company has reported its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, the Company discussed the results for the 2006 fourth-quarter and the corresponding 2005 period, as well as 2006 full-year and the corresponding 2005 period, using non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effect of (i) the tax benefits from the finalization of tax audits during the 2006 full-year and the corresponding 2005 period, (ii) the benefits from the sale of our equity interest in Integic Corporation in the 2005 full-year, (iii) restructuring charges recorded in the 2006 fourth-quarter and 2006 full-year and the corresponding 2005 periods, (iv) charges relating to certain litigation matters during the 2006 full-year and the corresponding 2005 period, (v) the charge related to the termination of the 2003 credit facility in the 2006 full-year and (vi) charges related to losses from Hurricane Katrina, the EU Waste Directive and an accounting change in the 2005 full-year period. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods' results against the corresponding prior periods' results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the company's 2006 fourth-quarter management discussion and analysis as well as in the 2006 fourth-quarter presentation slides available at .
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
www.xerox.com/investor
To receive Xerox's RSS news feed, visit . XEROX, iGen3, Phaser and WorkCentre are trademarks of XEROX CORPORATION. DocuColor is used under license.
www.xerox.com/news
 
Note: Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to these financial statements to conform to the current year presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office, Developing Markets Operations (DMO) and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
 
Revenues
Fourth quarter 2006 total revenues grew 3% compared to the fourth quarter 2005. Currency had a 3% positive impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
Net Income
Fourth quarter 2006 net income of $214 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, included a $160 million ($239 million pre-tax), or $0.16 per diluted share, charge related to restructuring.
Fourth quarter 2005 net income of $282 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, included a $51 million ($70 million pre-tax), or $0.05 per diluted share, charge related to restructuring.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are enclosed as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Equipment Sales
Equipment sales reflect the results of our technology investments and the associated product launches as more than two-thirds of the fourth quarter 2006 equipment sales were generated from products launched in the past 24 months.
In the fourth quarter 2006 equipment sales of $1,389 million were 1% lower reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Production
Production fourth quarter 2006 equipment sales declined 2%, including a 4-percentage point benefit from currency as price declines and product mix were partially offset by strong color install activity. Production system install activity included:
 
 
Office
Office fourth quarter 2006 equipment sales revenue declined 4%, including a 2-percentage point benefit from currency. Declines in price and color printer activity were partially offset by mix in office black and white products as well as office color multifunction products install growth. Office product install activity included:
 
 
 
DMO
DMO equipment sales consist of Office and Production products, including a large proportion of sales of Segment 1&2 office devices. Equipment sales in the fourth quarter 2006 grew 13% reflecting strong sales of Segment 1&2 devices as well as install growth in light production black and white and production color systems.
Post Sale and Other Revenue
Post sale revenue is largely a function of the equipment placed at customer locations, the volume of prints and copies that our customers make on that equipment, the mix of color pages, as well as associated services.
The fourth quarter 2006 post sale and other revenue of $2,782 million increased 6% compared to the fourth quarter 2005 reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Within post sale and other revenue, service, outsourcing, and rental revenue of $1,991 million grew 6% due to technical service revenue and global services growth. Supplies, paper, and other sales of $791 million grew 5% year-over-year primarily due to increased supplies and paper revenues.
Production
Production fourth quarter 2006 post sale and other revenue grew 7%, including a 4-percentage point benefit from currency as growth from digital products accelerated and declines in revenue from older light lens technology continued.
Office
Office fourth quarter 2006 post sale and other revenue increased 3% from fourth quarter 2005, including a 2-percentage point impact from currency and reflected growth in revenue from color multifunction devices and color printers.
DMO
DMO fourth quarter 2006 post sale and other revenue growth of 6% was driven primarily from growth in revenue of color products, supplies and paper sales.
 
Other
Post sale and other revenue within the Other segment increased 9% in the fourth quarter 2006 primarily driven by increased value-added services and paper sales. Paper comprised approximately two-thirds of fourth quarter 2006 Other segment post sale and other revenue.
Key Ratios and Expenses
 
Gross Margin
Fourth quarter 2006 total gross margin of 41.1% decreased 0.3-percentage points compared to fourth quarter 2005 primarily due to a higher proportion of revenue from lower margin businesses including global services, paper and DMO, as well as product mix in the production segment.
Sales gross margin declined 0.1-percentage points primarily resulting from price declines of approximately 2.2-percentage points, which offset the impact of product mix, cost improvements and other variances. Price declines were equipment-related and largely resulted from actions taken on office black and white multifunction products.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin declined 0.5-percentage points, as cost and productivity improvements were more than offset by price declines and activity mix of 2.1-percentage points.
Financing income margin declined 1.5-percentage points primarily due to higher interest rates on financing debt.
Research, Development and Engineering ("R,D&E")
R,D&E of $237 million in the fourth quarter 2006 was $3 million higher than the fourth quarter 2005. R&D of $204 million increased by $16 million primarily due to investments related to expected 2007 product launches in the Production and Office segments. Sustaining engineering costs of $33 million declined by $13 million, primarily in the Production segment and reflected lower spending related to environmental compliance activities and maturing product platforms.
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D remains strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
 
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
SAG expenses of $1,020 million in the fourth quarter 2006 were $24 million lower than the fourth quarter 2005, including a $22 million negative impact from currency. The SAG expense decline reflected the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the fourth quarter 2006, we recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $239 million primarily related to actions that will result in worldwide headcount reductions of approximately 1,900 employees. The amount recorded included asset impairment charges of $25 million, primarily related to the relocation of certain manufacturing operations as well as the exit from certain owned facilities. The remaining reserve balance as of December 31, 2006, for all programs was $337 million, of which approximately $291 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 53,700 at December 31, 2006, declined approximately 1,500 from year-end 2005 reflecting activity from ongoing restructuring programs partially offset by hiring in strategic business areas and the hiring of former contract employees in certain Latin American subsidiaries.
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Fourth quarter 2006 non-financing interest expense of $62 million was $9 million higher than the fourth quarter 2005. The increase is primarily due to higher interest rates, partially offset by lower average debt balances.
 
Gains on Sales of Assets
The fourth quarter 2006 gain of $21 million reflects the gain on the sale of our Corporate headquarters and a parcel of vacant land. In connection with the sale of our Corporate headquarters, we incurred a $2 million loss associated with the mortgage repayment.
Currency Losses, Net
Net fourth quarter 2006 currency losses of $8 million primarily reflected the mark-to-market of derivative contracts which are economically hedging the cost of anticipated foreign currency denominated payments.
Legal Matters
Fourth quarter 2006 legal expenses of $7 million were related to probable losses on various legal matters. Fourth quarter 2005 legal expenses of $9 million included an additional $7 million of interest expense recorded as a result of the previously disclosed MPI legal matter.
Income Tax Expenses
In the fourth quarter 2006, we recorded income tax expenses of $59 million compared with income tax expenses of $83 million in the fourth quarter 2005. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter 2006 was 24.2% versus 23.9% in the fourth quarter 2005.
The 2006 fourth quarter effective tax rate of 24.2% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily due to the geographical mix of income and the related effective tax rates in those jurisdictions, a tax law change and the resolution of other tax matters. The 2005 fourth quarter effective tax rate of 23.9% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% due to the benefits associated with increased utilization of foreign tax credits.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors including the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, as well as available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events (such as audit settlements) that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for 2007 will approximate 33%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $29 million increased $11 million compared to fourth quarter 2005 primarily due to our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's higher net income.
 
Segment Operating Profit
 
Total segment operating profit of $522 million in the fourth quarter 2006 was $76 million higher than the fourth quarter 2005. The fourth quarter 2006 operating margin of 11.9% increased 1.4-percentage points year-over-year.
Production
Fourth quarter 2006 Production profit of $175 million was $1 million higher than the fourth quarter 2005. The fourth quarter 2006 operating margin decreased 0.3-percentage points year-over-year.
Office
Fourth quarter 2006 Office profit of $276 million increased $11 million from 2005. Operating profit margin increased 0.4-percentage points in the fourth quarter reflecting higher gross profit and lower SAG expenses.
DMO
Fourth quarter 2006 DMO profit of $45 million increased $28 million from 2005 reflecting higher gross profit. Operating profit margin improved 4.8-percentage points in the fourth quarter.
Other
Fourth quarter 2006 Other operating profit of $26 million increased $36 million from fourth quarter 2005 primarily due to increased value-added services revenue and equity income from our unconsolidated affiliates.
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the three months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities of $720 million in the fourth quarter 2006 increased $89 million from fourth quarter 2005 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities of $16 million in the fourth quarter 2006 decreased $65 million from fourth quarter 2005 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities of $650 million in the fourth quarter 2006 increased $82 million from fourth quarter 2005 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities and Debt
The following table compares finance receivables to financing-related debt as of December 31, 2006:
 
As of December 31, 2006, 31% of total finance receivables were encumbered as compared to 44% at December 31, 2005. Also as of December 31, 2006, approximately 29% of total debt was secured by finance receivables and other assets compared to 49% at December 31, 2005. Consistent with our objective to rebalance the ratio of secured and unsecured debt, we expect payments on secured loans will continue to exceed proceeds from new secured loans in 2007. Our debt maturities are as follows:
 
Pension Matters
In December 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post-retirement Plans", an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R)" ("FAS 158"). FAS 158 requires us to fully recognize the funded status of our defined benefit pension, retiree healthcare and other post-retirement plans in our financial statements. The incremental after-tax impact of adopting FAS 158, including the adjustment to the minimum pension liability, was a decrease in total shareholders' equity of approximately $900 million. Total assets also decreased by approximately $550 million, and total liabilities increased by approximately $350 million. The adoption of this standard did not have, nor is it expected to have, an impact on any of the financial covenants included in our debt agreements.
FAS 158 did not, and in the future will not, have an impact on our pension expense. Full year 2006 pension expense, including both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and settlement losses, was $425 million in 2006 and $414 million in 2005. Settlement losses included in pension expense were $93 million in 2006 and $54 million in 2005. Pension expense in the 2006 fourth quarter was $101 million versus $94 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. Included in fourth quarter pension expense were settlement losses of $29 million in 2006 and $9 million in 2005. The $20 million increase in 2006 fourth quarter settlement losses was partially offset by a gain of $10 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 related to the recognition of excess benefit plan contributions.
 
Other Items
Reference has been made in this press release to "signings for document management services." This term represents management's estimate of the total contract life value of managed services and value-added services contracts signed within the period. This estimate includes new contracts, renewals, extensions, and amendments to existing contracts. The total contract life value is defined as the average monthly commitment minimum multiplied by the number of months in the contract, plus an estimate of any other revenue related to the contract, but not included in the minimum. If a contract does not have a monthly commitment minimum, management develops an estimate based on historical and expected usage patterns and other relevant information. Our contracts have terms that generally range from 3 to 5 years.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our 2005 Form 10-K and first, second and third-quarter 2006 Form 10-Qs filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company has reported its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, the Company discussed the results for the 2006 fourth quarter and the corresponding 2005 period, as well as 2006 full-year and the corresponding 2005 period, using non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effect of (i) the tax benefits from the finalization of tax audits during the 2006 full-year and the corresponding 2005 period, (ii) the benefits from the sale of our equity interest in Integic Corporation in the 2005 full-year, (iii) restructuring charges recorded in the 2006 fourth quarter and 2006 full-year and the corresponding 2005 periods, (iv) charges relating to certain litigation matters during the 2006 full-year and the corresponding 2005 period, (v) the charge related to the termination of the 2003 credit facility in the 2006 full-year and (vi) charges related to losses from Hurricane Katrina, the EU Waste Directive and an accounting change in the 2005 full-year period. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods' results against the corresponding prior periods' results. However,
 
these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the company's 2006 fourth quarter management discussion and analysis as well as in the 2006 fourth quarter presentation slides available at www.xerox.com/investor.
 
 
 
 


