FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20070725063720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 25, 2007, Registrant released its second quarter 2007 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that the future business operations of GIS will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the GIS transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the GIS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 as well as in our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: July 25, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, Conn., July 25, 2007  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today second-quarter 2007 earnings per share of 28 cents.
Total revenue of $4.2 billion grew 6 percent in the quarter. Post-sale and financing revenue  Xerox's annuity streams that represent more than 70 percent of total revenue  increased 7 percent. Both total revenue and post-sale revenue included a currency benefit of 2 percentage points as well as the benefit from Xerox's acquisition of Global Imaging Systems, which was completed in early May.
"Our results in the second quarter reflect the strategic importance of annuity and acquisitions flowing through to boost revenue and strengthen our position in the marketplace," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "With the Global Imaging team now on board, we've increased our reach to U.S. small and mid-size businesses by 50 percent. At the same time, our investment in delivering the industry's broadest portfolio of color technology is paying off with the annuity from our color business increasing 16 percent. And, Xerox's global relationships with large customers are contributing to annuity growth from our consulting and managed services business.
"We are consistent in managing the business effectively  generating steady operational cash flow and containing costs while competing aggressively and expanding earnings to deliver value for shareholders. As a result, we delivered solid results in the first half of the year and are raising earnings expectations for the full year," she added.
A fundamental measure of Xerox's business is increasing the number of Xerox systems installed in customers' workplaces. This install activity generates sales of supplies and services that are expected to drive gains in post-sale revenue. During the second quarter, install activity increased 54 percent for the company's color
Xerox Reports Second-Quarter 2007 Earnings / 2
 
multifunction devices that print, copy, fax and scan. In addition, activity grew for color production systems as more commercial printers and graphic arts customers installed Xerox digital presses to meet their clients' demand for personalization, book publishing and promotional marketing materials.
Price declines and the mix of products sold continued to put pressure on equipment sales revenue. Xerox reported a 3 percent increase in equipment sales revenue, which includes a 2-point benefit from currency.
Since the beginning of the year, Xerox has introduced 28 new products, 10 of which are color devices, doubling the 14 total product launches in 2006. More than two-thirds of Xerox's equipment sales revenue comes from products launched in the past two years.
Revenue from grew 12 percent in the second quarter and now represents 38 percent of Xerox's total revenue, up 4 points from the second quarter of 2006. Xerox color presses produce the highest volume of pages in the industry and last year more than 30 billion color pages were printed on Xerox technology. In the second quarter, the number of color pages grew 30 percent, and now represent 12 percent of total pages, up 3 points from the prior year. Color performance excludes Global Imaging Systems.
color
Xerox help businesses simplify work processes, manage office technology and in-house print shops, digitize paper files, create digital archives and much more. Through multiyear, multimillion dollar contracts, the company's document management services generated more than $1.6 billion in annuity revenue in the first half of the year, an 8 percent increase in post-sale revenue from services. Xerox recently signed its largest services contract to date, finalizing a seven-year deal with the United Kingdom's Department for Work and Pensions for a Xerox-led group to serve as the department's primary supplier of print and related services, supporting more than 2,000 DWP offices across the U.K.
services
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed digital printing and services that enable on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue increased 2 percent in the second quarter including a 4 point currency benefit. Installs of production black-and-white systems declined 7 percent with initial demand for the newly launched Xerox Nuvera EA and Xerox Nuvera 288 systems and continuous feed systems only partially offsetting declines in higher-end production printing. Production color installs grew 4 percent reflecting strong activity for the Xerox iGen3 Digital Production Press and DocuColor 5000 and 8000 systems.
production
Xerox Reports Second-Quarter 2007 Earnings / 3
 
The company's acquisition of Global Imaging Systems gives Xerox access to about 200,000 new customers and adds 1,400 sales people to expand Xerox's footprint in the SMB market. Sales from Global Imaging supported second-quarter growth in Xerox's business, which provides document technology and services for businesses of any size. Total office revenue was up 5 percent in the second quarter including a 2 point benefit from currency. Installs of the company's office black-and-white systems increased 7 percent primarily due to a 9 percent increase in activity for Xerox's mid-range line of multifunction devices. Installs for office color multifunction devices grew 54 percent in the quarter.
office
Gross margins were 40.3 percent, a less than one point decline from second quarter of 2006. Selling, administrative and general expenses were 25.7 percent of revenue, about the same as the prior year. Xerox generated operating cash flow of $388 million in the second quarter and closed the quarter with $870 million in cash and short-term investments.
Since launching its stock buyback program in October 2005, the company to date has repurchased about 117 million shares, totaling $1.8 billion of its $2.5 billion program.
Xerox expects third-quarter 2007 earnings in the range of 24-26 cents per share. The company increased its range of earnings expectations for full-year 2007 to $1.16-$1.18.
Media Contacts:
Michael Moeller, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-3135,
michael.moeller@xerox.com
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4644,
christa.carone@xerox.com
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that the future business operations of Global Imaging Systems will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the GIS transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the GIS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk
Xerox Reports Second-Quarter 2007 Earnings / 4
 
Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 as well as in our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
For more information on Xerox, visit
http://www.xerox.com/
or
http://www.xerox.com/news
. XEROX, Xerox Nuvera and iGen3 are trademarks of XEROX CORPORATION. DocuColor is used under license.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
 
Second quarter 2007 total revenues grew 6% compared to the second quarter 2006. Our consolidated results include the results of Global Imaging Systems (GIS) since May 9, 2007, the effective date of the acquisition. When including GIS in our 2006 results
3
, second quarter 2007 total revenue grew 1%. Currency had a 2-percentage point positive impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
Approximately 75% of GIS revenue is included in the Office segment representing those sales and services that align to our Office segment, and 25% in the Other segment.
Install activity percentages include the Xerox-branded shipments to GIS.
Net Income
Second quarter 2007 net income of $266 million, or $0.28 per diluted share increased $6 million or $0.02 per diluted share from the second quarter 2006.
Second quarter 2006 net income of $260 million, or $0.26 per diluted share included a $46 million tax benefit resulting from the resolution of certain tax matters associated with foreign tax audits, as well as after-tax restructuring charges of $25 million ($36 million pre-tax) and a $9 million after-tax charge ($13 million pre-tax) from the write-off of remaining unamortized deferred debt issuance costs as a result of the termination of our 2003 Credit Facility.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income
Production
Revenue
Second quarter 2007 Production revenue of $1,153 million increased 2%, including a 4-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2007 Production profit of $82 million decreased $6 million from second quarter 2006 reflecting lower gross profit partially offset by lower R,D&E and SAG expenses reflecting, in part, the benefits from 2006 restructuring programs. Operating profit margin decreased 0.7-percentage points in the second quarter 2007.
Office
Revenue
Second quarter 2007 Office revenue of $2,030 million increased 5%, including a 2-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2007 Office profit of $226 million increased $13 million from second quarter 2006 as a result of higher gross profit due to increased revenue.
DMO
Revenue
Second quarter 2007 DMO revenue of $531 million increased 13%, reflecting:
 
 
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2007 DMO profit of $37 million increased $3 million from 2006 reflecting higher gross profit from increased revenue partially offset by increased SAG expenses reflecting increased advertising and promotional spending.
 
Other
Revenue
Second quarter 2007 Other revenue of $494 million increased 11%, including a 2-percentage point benefit from currency, primarily reflecting the inclusion of GIS as well as increased paper and value-added services revenue. Paper comprised approximately half of second quarter 2007 Other segment revenue.
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2007 Other profit of $2 million increased $15 million from second quarter 2006 reflecting increased value-added services revenue, including our 2006 acquisition of Amici (now Xerox Litigation Services).
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
Second quarter 2007 total gross margin of 40.3% decreased 0.8-percentage points compared to the second quarter 2006 primarily due to a higher proportion of revenue from lower margin businesses including document management services, paper and DMO.
Sales gross margin decreased 1.3-percentage points compared to the second quarter 2006 due to supplies product mix. The impact of prices declines and cost improvements offset one another.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin increased 0.1-percentage points, as cost and productivity improvements including restructuring savings and other variances more than offset price declines and product mix.
Financing income margin declined 2.5-percentage points primarily from additional interest expense due to higher interest rates.
 
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("R,D&E")
 
R,D&E of $223 million in the second quarter 2007 was $7 million lower than the second quarter 2006. R&D of $188 million increased by $2 million while sustaining engineering costs of $35 million declined by $9 million, primarily in the Production segment reflecting lower spending related to environmental compliance activities and maturing product platforms.
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,081 million in the second quarter 2007 were $61 million higher than the second quarter 2006, including a $26 million negative impact from currency. The SAG expense increase reflected the following:
 
 
 
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 58,100 at June 30, 2007, increased approximately 4,400 from year-end 2006 primarily reflecting the addition of approximately 4,700 GIS personnel and the hiring of former contract employees in certain Latin American subsidiaries, partially offset by reductions from the 2006 restructuring programs.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Second quarter 2007 non-financing interest expense of $70 million was $10 million higher than the second quarter 2006, due to higher interest rates and higher average debt balances.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
Second quarter 2006 gains of $10 million reflect the receipt from escrow of additional proceeds from our sale of Integic in the first quarter 2005. The proceeds were placed in escrow upon the sale of Integic pending completion of an indemnification period that ended in May 2006.
Currency (Gains) Losses, Net
Net second quarter 2007 currency gains of $1 million and net second quarter 2006 losses of $10 million primarily reflect the mark-to-market of derivative contracts which economically hedge the cost of anticipated foreign currency denominated payments. The change from 2006 is primarily attributable to currency fluctuations.
Legal Matters
Legal expenses of $10 million in the second quarter 2006 primarily included charges of $19 million associated with probable losses from various legal matters partially offset by $12 million of proceeds from the resolution of the Palm litigation matter.
Other, net
Other, net of $18 million in the second quarter 2006 included a $13 million write-off of unamortized deferred debt issuance costs associated with the termination of our 2003 Credit Facility.
Income Taxes
In the second quarter 2007, we recorded income tax expense of $76 million compared to $22 million in the second quarter 2006. The effective tax rate for the second quarter 2007 was 24.1% versus 8.3% in the second quarter 2006.
 
The second quarter 2007 effective tax rate of 24.1% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily reflecting tax benefits from the utilization of foreign tax credits and the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
The second quarter 2006 effective tax rate of 8.3% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily reflecting tax benefits of $46 million from the resolution of certain tax issues associated with foreign tax audits, $11 million from the reversal of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets associated with foreign net operating loss carry forwards, the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and a tax law change.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors including the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, as well as available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remainder of the year will approximate 31%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events and we expect our full year 2007 tax rate to be approximately 30%.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $27 million increased $10 million compared to second quarter 2006 primarily due to our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's higher net income.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the three months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006:
 
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities of $388 million in the second quarter 2007 increased $168 million from second quarter 2006 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities of $1,544 million in the second quarter 2007 increased $1,556 million from second quarter 2006 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities was $777 million in the second quarter 2007. The increase in cash flows of $1,636 million from second quarter 2006 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities and Debt
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
As of June 30, 2007, approximately 22% of total debt was secured by finance receivables and other assets compared to 29% at December 31, 2006.
Subsequent Events
In July 2007, we completed a transaction with De Lage Landen ("DLL") to purchase their 51% ownership interest in the lease financing joint venture in the Netherlands (the "DLL Joint Venture") for approximately $25 million. In connection with the purchase, the secured borrowings to DLL of approximately $153 million were repaid and the related finance receivables are no longer encumbered. To fund the purchase and repayment we borrowed approximately $161 million of unsecured debt due July 1, 2008. Other than the repayment of the secured debt and the new unsecured borrowing, the effects from this transaction will be immaterial as the DLL Joint Venture will continue to be consolidated in our financial statements.
On July 19, 2007, we priced a zero coupon bond in a private placement transaction. The bond is expected to close on July 30, 2007, at which time we expect to receive net proceeds of approximately $300 million. The bond has a final maturity of July 30, 2022 with a final amount due at maturity of $706 million. The bond is putable annually at the option of the holder beginning July 30, 2009. Proceeds will be used to replace secured debt.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that the future business operations of GIS will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the GIS transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the GIS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of
 
competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 as well as in our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, we discussed the results for the second quarter 2007 and the corresponding 2006 period using non-GAAP financial measures. Management believes these measures give investors an additional perspective of revenue trends, as well as the impact of the acquisition of GIS to the Company. To understand these trends in the business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to determine the impact of the acquisition of Global Imaging Systems to include GIS' estimated revenue for the comparable 2006 period to determine the impact on revenue growth rates. We refer to this adjusted growth as "adjusted revenue" in the following reconciliation table. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods' results against the corresponding prior periods' results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth below as well as in the 2007 second quarter presentation slides available at www.xerox.com/investor.
 
Revenue As Adjusted adds GIS's estimated results for the period from May 9th through June 30th 2006 to our 2006 reported revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office, Developing Markets Operations (DMO) and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 


