FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20070420070242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On April 20, 2007, Registrant released its first quarter 2007 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the ability to obtain regulatory approval for the Global Imaging transaction; the risk that the businesses of Xerox and Global Imaging will not be integrated successfully, or that such integration will take longer than anticipated; the risk that the expected cost savings from the Global Imaging transaction will not be achieved or unexpected costs will be incurred; the risk that customer retention goals for the Global Imaging transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the Global Imaging transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: April 20, 2007
 
 

 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, Conn., April 20, 2007  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today first-quarter 2007 earnings per share of 24 cents.
The company's earnings include a 2-cent charge to reflect its share of a restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. This previously announced restructuring was initially expected to be a 3-cent charge to Xerox's first-quarter earnings.
Total revenue of $3.8 billion grew 4 percent in the first quarter. Post-sale and financing revenue  Xerox's annuity streams that represent more than 70 percent of total revenue  increased 6 percent. This growth was largely driven by a 7 percent increase in post-sale revenue from digital systems. Both total revenue and post-sale revenue included a currency benefit of 3 percentage points.
"Xerox's growth strategy focuses on increasing our install base of digital technology through new products and broader distribution, strengthening our leadership in color, and expanding our services business. Success in these areas builds a healthy annuity stream that serves our company well for the long term," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "Our results in the first quarter show that the strategy is working. We delivered solid activity gains, grew color revenue, and signed big deals for Xerox's document management services  all of which contribute to steady annuity growth.
"Along with progress on the top line, excellent operational performance and improved margins led to a 17 percent increase in net income and earnings that exceeded our expectations," added Mulcahy.
 
Xerox Reports First-Quarter 2007 Earnings / 2
 
A fundamental measure of Xerox's business is increasing the number of Xerox systems installed in customers' workplaces. This install activity generates sales of supplies and services that are expected to drive gains in post-sale revenue. As Xerox accelerated activity in key markets during the first quarter, the continued impact of pricing declines put pressure on equipment sales, which were down 2 percent including a 2 point benefit from currency.
Since the beginning of the year, Xerox has introduced 19 new products, half of which are color products, surpassing the 14 total product launches in 2006. The company plans to more than double its number of product launches this year. More than two-thirds of Xerox's equipment sales come from products launched in the past two years.
Xerox is growing revenue through the industry's broadest portfolio of color presses, printers and multifunction devices, and new marketing campaigns that promote the quality and affordability of color printing as seen on
color
www.frugalcolor.com
. Revenue from color grew 17 percent in the first quarter and now represents 37 percent of Xerox's total revenue, up 4 points from the first quarter of 2006. Xerox color presses produce the highest volume of pages in the industry and last year more than 30 billion color pages were printed on Xerox technology. In the first quarter, color pages contributed to a 21 percent increase in post-sale revenue from color.
Xerox help businesses simplify work processes, manage office technology and in-house print shops, digitize paper files, create digital archives and much more. Through multiyear, multimillion dollar contracts, the company's document management services generated nearly $800 million in annuity revenue in the first quarter, a 10 percent increase in post-sale revenue from services.
services
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed digital printing and services that enable on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue increased 5 percent in the first quarter including a 4 point currency benefit. Installs of production black-and-white systems declined 7 percent with growth in light production and continuous feed only partially offsetting declines in higher-end production printing. Production color installs grew 4 percent reflecting strong activity for the Xerox iGen3 Digital Production Press and continued demand for the DocuColor 5000.
production
Xerox's business provides document technology and services for businesses of any size. Total office revenue was up 2 percent in the first quarter
office
Xerox Reports First-Quarter 2007 Earnings / 3
 
including a 2 point currency benefit. Installs of office black-and-white systems were down 5 percent due to activity declines for desktop devices, which were only partially offset by 11 percent growth in the company's mid-range line of multifunction devices. Strong demand for Xerox's color WorkCentre families led to a 71 percent increase in install activity for color multifunction systems.
In addition to new product and service offerings, Xerox is making aggressive moves to expand its presence in the fast growing small and mid-size business (SMB) market. Earlier this month, Xerox agreed to acquire Global Imaging Systems for $1.5 billion, which, upon closing, will give Xerox access to about 200,000 new customers and increase its U.S. distribution to SMB customers by more than 50 percent. Expected to close in mid-May, the acquisition of Global Imaging builds on Xerox's announcement in February to increase its investments in sales channels by providing more offerings to value-added resellers and independent agents.
"We're playing offense in the marketplace and we're playing to win," said Mulcahy.
Gross margins were 40.6 percent, about a half point improvement from first quarter of 2006. Selling, administrative and general expenses were 24.9 percent of revenue, a year-over-year improvement of 1.7 points.
Xerox generated operating cash flow of $187 million in the first quarter and closed the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Since launching its stock buyback program in October 2005, the company to date has repurchased about 114 million shares, totaling $1.7 billion of its $2.5 billion program.
Xerox expects second-quarter 2007 earnings in the range of 26-28 cents per share.
Media Contacts:
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4644,
christa.carone@xerox.com
Bill McKee, Xerox Corporation, 585-423-4476,
bill.mckee@xerox.com
Note to Editors: This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should," and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the ability to obtain regulatory approval for the Global Imaging transaction; the risk that the businesses of Xerox and Global Imaging will not be integrated successfully, or that such integration will take longer than anticipated; the risk that the expected cost savings from the Global Imaging transaction will not be achieved or unexpected costs will be incurred; the risk that customer retention goals for the Global Imaging transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the Global Imaging transaction will harm
Xerox Reports First-Quarter 2007 Earnings / 4
 
relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
To receive Xerox's RSS news feed, visit
www.xerox.com/news
. XEROX, iGen3, and WorkCentre are trademarks of XEROX CORPORATION. DocuColor is used under license.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
 
 
First quarter 2007 total revenues grew 4% compared to the first quarter 2006. Currency had a 3-percentage point positive impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
First quarter 2007 net income of $233 million, or $0.24 per diluted share increased $33 million or $0.04 per diluted share from the first quarter 2006, primarily reflecting:
 
 
 
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are enclosed as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income
Production
Revenue
First quarter 2007 Production revenue of $1,085 million increased 5%, including a 4-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
First quarter 2007 Production profit of $100 million increased $33 million from first quarter 2006. Operating profit margin increased 2.7-percentage points in the 2007 first quarter reflecting higher gross profit and lower R,D&E and SAG expenses reflecting, in part, the benefits from 2006 restructuring programs.
Office
Revenue
First quarter 2007 Office revenue of $1,846 million increased 2%, including a 2-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
First quarter 2007 Office profit of $232 million increased $72 million from first quarter 2006. Operating profit margin increased 3.7-percentage points in the 2007 first quarter reflecting higher gross profit and lower SAG expenses reflecting, in part, the benefits from 2006 restructuring programs.
DMO
Revenue
First quarter 2007 DMO revenue of $458 million increased 5%, reflecting:
 
 
Operating Profit
First quarter 2007 DMO profit of $16 million decreased $1 million from 2006 reflecting higher costs and expenses in Latin America resulting in lower gross profit and higher
 
SAG expenses. Operating profit margin declined 0.4-percentage points in the 2007 first quarter.
Other
Revenue
First quarter 2007 Other revenue of $447 million increased 6%, including a 3-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting increased paper and value-added services revenue. Paper comprised approximately half of first quarter 2007 revenue.
Operating Profit
First quarter 2007 Other operating profit of $14 million increased $11 million from first quarter 2006 reflecting increased value-added services revenue, including benefits from our 2006 acquisition of Amici (now Xerox Litigation Services), which more than offset lower equity income from Fuji Xerox before the restructuring charge.
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
First quarter 2007 total gross margin of 40.6% increased 0.4-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2006 as cost improvements and other variances more than offset the impact of price declines.
Sales gross margin increased 1.0-percentage points primarily as product mix and other variances offset the impact of price declines. The margin impact from price declines of approximately 1.3-percentage points were equipment-related and largely resulted from actions taken on office products.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin increased 0.3-percentage points, as cost and productivity improvements including restructuring savings and other variances more than offset price declines and product mix.
Financing income margin declined 2.3-percentage points primarily from additional interest expense due to higher interest rates.
 
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("R,D&E")
 
R,D&E of $218 million in the first quarter 2007 was $7 million lower than the first quarter 2006. R&D of $181 million increased by $2 million while sustaining engineering costs of $37 million declined by $9 million, primarily in the Production segment, and reflecting lower environmental spending requirements.
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $954 million in the first quarter 2007 were $29 million lower than the first quarter 2006, including a $27 million negative impact from currency. The SAG expenses decline reflected the following:
 
 
 
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 53,150 at March 31, 2007, declined approximately 600 from December 31, 2006 primarily reflecting reductions from the 2006 restructuring programs.
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the first quarter 2007, we recorded a $2 million net restructuring reversal primarily due to changes in estimated reserves for prior year initiatives. The restructuring reserve balance as of March 31, 2007, for all programs was $261 million, of which approximately $224 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
First quarter 2007 non-financing interest expense of $58 million was $4 million higher than the first quarter 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher interest rates, partially offset by lower average debt balances.
Currency Losses, Net
Net first quarter 2007 and 2006 currency losses of $3 million and $14 million, respectively; primarily reflect the mark-to-market of derivative contracts which economically hedge the cost of anticipated foreign currency denominated payments. The change from 2006 is primarily attributable to currency fluctuations.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
First quarter 2007 amortization of intangible assets expense of $6 million was $4 million lower than the first quarter 2006. The decrease is associated with the end of amortization period for certain acquired intangible assets.
Income Taxes
In the first quarter 2007, we recorded income tax expense of $102 million compared to $47 million in the first quarter 2006. The effective tax rate for the first quarter 2007 was 31.0% versus 22.6% in the first quarter 2006.
The 2007 first quarter effective tax rate of 31.0% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily reflecting the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
The 2006 first quarter effective tax rate of 22.6% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily reflecting a tax benefit of $24 million from the resolution of certain tax issues associated with our 1999 to 2003 Internal Revenue Service audit.
 
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors including the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, as well as available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remainder of the year will approximate 33%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events and we expect our full year 2007 tax rate to be approximately 33%.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $6 million decreased $33 million compared to first quarter 2006. The decline in equity income is primarily due to a $23 million charge representing our 25% share of Fuji Xerox restructuring.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities of $187 million in the first quarter 2007 increased $40 million from first quarter 2006 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash provided by investing activities of $16 million in the first quarter 2007 decreased $40 million from first quarter 2006 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $390 million in the first quarter 2007. The decrease in cash of $452 million from first quarter 2006 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities and Debt
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
 
As of March 31, 2007, approximately 27% of total debt was secured by finance receivables and other assets compared to 29% at December 31, 2006. Our debt maturities are as follows:
 
Subsequent Events
On April 2, 2007, we agreed to acquire the stock of Global Imaging Systems, Inc. ("Global Imaging"), a provider of office technology for small and medium businesses, for $1.5 billion in cash. Global Imaging is a U.S. supplier of office technology solutions, which includes the sale and service of automated office equipment, network integration services and electronic presentation systems. The operating results of Global Imaging will primarily be included within our Office segment from the date of acquisition. The acquisition of Global Imaging is expected to close in the second quarter of 2007, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the ability to obtain regulatory approval for the Global Imaging transaction; the risk that the businesses of Xerox and Global Imaging will not be integrated successfully, or will take longer than anticipated;
 
the risk that the expected cost savings from the Global Imaging transaction will not be achieved or unexpected costs will be incurred; the risk that customer retention goals for the Global Imaging transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the Global Imaging transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office, Developing Markets Operations (DMO) and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 
 
 
 


