FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20071019063730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On October 19, 2007, Registrant released its third quarter 2007 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that the future business operations of GIS will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the GIS transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the GIS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30, 2007 as well as in our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: October 19, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
STAMFORD, Conn., October 19, 2007  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today third-quarter 2007 earnings per share of 27 cents.
Total revenue of $4.3 billion grew 12 percent in the quarter with post-sale and financing revenue  Xerox's annuity streams that represent more than 70 percent of total revenue  up 11 percent. Both total revenue and post-sale revenue included a currency benefit of 3 percentage points as well as the benefit from Xerox's acquisition of Global Imaging Systems.
The company's earnings per share of 27 cents compares to 54 cents from third-quarter 2006, which included a 45-cent tax gain partially offset by restructuring and litigation charges of 14 cents per share.  Excluding these items, earnings per share for third-quarter 2007 is up 17 percent from the adjusted prior year EPS.
"This quarter's solid results are proof positive that our business model is on track, generating double-digit profit growth and fueling a strong annuity pipeline that serves us well for the long term," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer.
"With the industry's broadest set of digital color systems, we're knocking down cost and quality barriers to make color printing affordable for businesses of any size. Now, color makes up more than half of our total equipment sales," she added. "Our investments in innovation, rich portfolio of services, and acquisitions of companies that strengthen our leadership in document management are delivering value for our customers and our shareholders. The result is strong third-quarter performance, leading us to increase our expectations for full-year earnings growth."
Xerox Reports Third-Quarter 2007 Earnings / 2
 
A fundamental measure of Xerox's business is increasing the number of Xerox systems installed in customers' workplaces. This install activity generates sales of supplies and services that are expected to drive gains in post-sale revenue. During the third quarter, install activity increased 69 percent for Xerox's office color multifunction devices, including the WorkCentre and Phaser families that print, copy, fax and scan. In addition, installs of color production systems grew 14 percent as demand was up for the Xerox iGen3 Digital Production Press and DocuColor systems that enable commercial printers and large enterprises to publish books, personalize marketing collaterals, customize transactional statements and more.
During the third quarter, Xerox saw the benefit of the 38 office and production products launched this year as well as broader distribution to small and mid-size businesses through the acquisition of Global Imaging Systems. Equipment sales were up 14 percent over the prior year, including a 2 point benefit from currency. Already in 2007, Xerox has rolled out more than twice the number of new products it launched last year. Today, more than two-thirds of Xerox's equipment sale revenue comes from products launched in the past two years.
Revenue from grew 13 percent in the third quarter and now represents 39 percent of Xerox's total revenue, up 3 points from the third quarter of 2006. Xerox color devices produce the highest volume of pages in the industry and are on pace to produce more than 40 billion color pages this year. In the third quarter, the number of color pages grew 32 percent, and now represent 13 percent of total pages, up 3 points from the prior year. Color performance excludes Global Imaging Systems results.
color
Xerox help businesses simplify work processes, manage office technology and in-house print shops, digitize paper files, create digital archives and much more. Through multiyear, multimillion dollar contracts, the company's document management services generated about $2.5 billion in annuity revenue through the third quarter of the year, an 8 percent increase in post-sale revenue from services. Xerox recently signed several services contracts including a $93 million contract with the U.S. Navy to provide equipment and services for its entire fleet and a $82 million document management contract with EUROPART, Europe's leading commercial vehicle parts distributor. Xerox Global Services will manage the German company's office and production print services, invoice processing and customer service centers.
services
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed digital printing and services that enable on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue increased 6 percent in the third quarter including a 4 point currency benefit. Production color installs grew 14 percent reflecting strong activity for the Xerox iGen3 and DocuColor systems. Installs of production black-and-white systems declined 8 percent. Demand for the Xerox Nuvera EA and Xerox Nuvera 288 digital presses as well as continuous feed systems only partially offset declines from other higher-end and light-production systems.
production
Xerox Reports Third-Quarter 2007 Earnings / 3
 
Xerox continues to drive the demand for color in the with the recent rollout of new solid-ink devices that for the first time enable customers to print in color at the same price as printing in black and white. Total office revenue was up 14 percent in the third quarter including a 3 point benefit from currency. Installs of the company's WorkCentre black-and-white systems increased 9 percent including an 8 percent increase in activity for Xerox's mid-range line of multifunction devices. Installs for office color multifunction devices grew 69 percent in the quarter.
office
Gross margins were 40.1 percent, about flat from third quarter of 2006. Selling, administrative and general expenses were 25.4 percent of revenue, also about the same as the prior year. Xerox generated operating cash flow of $286 million in the third quarter. The company said it is on track to deliver $1.5 billion in operating cash flow for the full year.
Since launching its stock buyback program in October 2005, Xerox to date has repurchased about 129 million shares, totaling $2 billion of its $2.5 billion program.
Last week, Xerox closed on its $32 million acquisition of Advectis, Inc., which provides one of the mortgage industry's most widely-used solutions for electronic document collaboration. The all-cash purchase of Advectis expands Xerox's expertise in automating work processes, helping customers in document-intensive businesses like lending and finance to reduce costs and simplify how work gets done.
Xerox expects fourth-quarter earnings in the range of 39  41 cents per share, delivering full-year 2007 earnings of $1.18  $1.20.
Media Contacts:
Michael Moeller, Xerox Corporation 203-968-3135,
michael.moeller@xerox.com
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-968-4644,
christa.carone@xerox.com
Xerox Reports Third-Quarter 2007 Earnings / 4
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that the future business operations of Global Imaging Systems (GIS) will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the GIS transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the GIS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees, agents, distributors and suppliers; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30, 2007 as well as in our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Note:
For more information on Xerox, visit http://www.Xerox.com or http://www.Xerox.com/news. XEROX, Xerox Nuvera, Phaser, Workcenter and iGen3 are trademarks of XEROX CORPORATION. DocuColor is used under license.
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
Third quarter 2007 total revenues grew 12% compared to the third quarter 2006. Currency had a 3-percentage point positive impact on total revenues in the quarter. Our consolidated 2007 results include the results of Global Imaging Systems (GIS) since May 9, 2007, the effective date of the acquisition. When including GIS in our 2006 results
3
, third quarter 2007 total revenue grew 4%, with a 2-percentage point benefit from currency. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
Approximately 75% of GIS revenue is included in the Office segment representing those sales and services that align to our Office segment, and 25% is in the Other segment.
Install activity percentages include the Xerox-branded shipments to GIS.
Net Income
Third quarter 2007 net income of $254 million, or $0.27 per diluted share decreased $282 million or $0.27 per diluted share from the third quarter 2006.
Third quarter 2006 net income of $536 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, included a $448 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, income tax benefit related to the finalization of the 1999-2003 Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") tax audit, as well as charges for after-tax restructuring of $72 million ($110 million pre-tax), or $0.07 per diluted share, and charges of $68 million ($68 million pre-tax) for litigation matters related to probable losses for Brazilian labor-related contingencies, or $0.07 per diluted share.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income
Production
Revenue
Third quarter 2007 Production revenue of $1,151 million increased 6%, including a 4-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Third quarter 2007 Production profit of $97 million increased $24 million from third quarter 2006 primarily reflecting higher gross profit due to increased revenue.
 
Office
Revenue
Third quarter 2007 Office revenue of $2,099 million increased 14%, including a 3-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Third quarter 2007 Office profit of $225 million increased $42 million from third quarter 2006 as a result of higher gross profit due to increased revenue.
DMO
Revenue
Third quarter 2007 DMO revenue of $535 million increased 12%, reflecting:
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Third quarter 2007 DMO profit of $32 million increased $4 million from 2006 reflecting higher gross profit primarily from increased revenue partially offset by increased SAG expenses.
Other
Revenue
Third quarter 2007 Other revenue of $517 million increased 21%, including a 3-percentage point benefit from currency, primarily reflecting the inclusion of GIS and increased licensing revenue as well as increased paper, value-added services and wide-format revenue. Paper comprised approximately half of third quarter 2007 Other segment revenue.
 
Operating Profit
Third quarter 2007 Other profit of $6 million decreased $9 million from third quarter 2006 due to higher interest expense in 2007 and the 2006 gain from the sale of a facility that were only partially offset by increased licensing revenue.
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
Third quarter 2007 total gross margin of 40.1% decreased 0.1-percentage points compared to the third quarter 2006.
Sales gross margin increased 1.0-percentage points compared to the third quarter 2006 primarily as cost improvements, product mix and other variances more than offset the 2.1-percentage point impact of price declines.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin decreased 0.2-percentage points, as cost improvements and favorable product mix did not fully offset price declines and other variances.
Financing income margin declined 2.6-percentage points primarily from additional interest expense due to higher interest rates.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("R,D&E")
 
R,D&E of $233 million in the third quarter 2007 was $3 million higher than the third quarter 2006. R&D of $195 million increased $3 million and sustaining engineering costs of $38 million were unchanged from third quarter 2006.
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
 
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,091 million in the third quarter 2007 were $106 million higher than the third quarter 2006, including a $26 million negative impact from currency. The SAG expense increase reflected the following:
 
 
 
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 57,100 at September 30, 2007, increased approximately 3,400 from year-end 2006 primarily reflecting the addition of GIS personnel and the hiring of former contract employees in certain Latin American subsidiaries, partially offset by reductions from the 2006 restructuring programs.
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Third quarter 2007 non-financing interest expense of $75 million was $12 million higher than the third quarter 2006, due to higher average debt balances.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
Third quarter 2006 gains of $11 million primarily reflected the gain on the sale of a facility.
 
Currency (Gains) Losses, Net
Net third quarter 2007 currency gains of $8 million and net third quarter 2006 losses of $7 million primarily reflect the mark-to-market of derivative contracts which economically hedge the cost of anticipated foreign currency denominated payments. The change from 2006 is primarily attributable to currency fluctuations.
Legal Matters
Third quarter 2006 legal expenses of $69 million primarily consisted of a $68 million charge for probable losses on Brazilian labor related litigation matters.
Income Taxes
In the third quarter 2007, we recorded income tax expense of $97 million compared to a $(416) million income tax benefit in the third quarter 2006. The effective tax rate for the third quarter 2007 was 29.9% versus (457.1)% in the third quarter 2006.
The third quarter 2007 effective tax rate of 29.9% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily reflecting tax benefits from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related effective tax rates in those jurisdictions and the utilization of foreign tax credits, partially offset by changes in tax law.
The 2006 third quarter effective tax rate of (457.1)% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily due to $448 million of income tax benefits from the resolution of certain tax issues associated with the 1999-2003 IRS audit, $11 million from a tax treaty change and the geographical mix of income and the related effective tax rates in those jurisdictions. These tax benefits were partially offset by losses in certain jurisdictions where we are not providing tax benefits and continue to maintain deferred tax valuation allowances.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors including the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, as well as available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter will approximate 30%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events and we expect our full year 2007 tax rate to be approximately 29%.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $27 million decreased $2 million compared to third quarter 2006.
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the three months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006:
 
Cash, cash equivalents and Short-term investments reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements were as follows:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities of $286 million in the third quarter 2007 decreased $244 million from third quarter 2006 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $74 million in the third quarter 2007. The increase in cash flows of $121 million from third quarter 2006 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $243 million in the third quarter 2007. The decrease in cash flows of $262 million from third quarter 2006 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities and Debt
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
As of September 30, 2007, approximately 11% of total debt was secured by finance receivables and other assets compared to 29% at December 31, 2006.
Subsequent Events
On September 12, 2007, we agreed to acquire Advectis, Inc. ("Advectis"), a privately-owned provider of a web-based solution to electronically manage the process needed to underwrite, audit, collaborate, deliver and archive mortgage loan documents for $32 million in cash. The acquisition of Advectis closed on October 11, 2007.
On October 12, 2007, our secured warehouse financing facility in France matured and we repaid the outstanding borrowings of 331 million (U.S. $469 million) under this program. To fund this repayment we borrowed 330 million through a floating rate unsecured bank bridge loan due March 31, 2008.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that the future business operations of Global Imaging Systems ("GIS") will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the GIS transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the GIS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees, agents, distributors and suppliers; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, and June 30, 2007 as well as in our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition we have discussed the following non-GAAP measures:
We discussed the revenue growth for the third quarter 2007 and the corresponding 2006 period using non-GAAP financial measures. Management believes these measures give investors an additional perspective on revenue trends, as well as the impact to the Company of the acquisition of GIS that was completed in May 2007. To understand these trends in the business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to illustrate the impact on revenue growth rates of our acquisition of GIS. We have done this by including GIS' revenue for the comparable 2006 period. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "adjusted revenue" in the following reconciliation table.
1. "Adjusted Revenue":
The diluted earnings per share for the 2006 third quarter is discussed in this presentation using non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effects of (i) the tax benefits from the finalization of tax audits during such period, (ii) restructuring charges, and (iii) litigation charges.
2. "Adjusted EPS":
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide an additional means of analyzing the current period results against the corresponding prior period results.
 
However, all of these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2007 third quarter presentation slides available at www.xerox.com/investor.
 
Revenue "As Adjusted" adds GIS' results for the period from July 1st through September 30th 2006 to our 2006 reported revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office, Developing Markets Operations (DMO) and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 


