FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20070226163800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On February 22, 2007, Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. ("FX"), an unconsolidated entity of which Registrant owns 25% and FUJIFILM Holdings owns 75%, informed Registrant that it plans to record restructuring charges in its fiscal fourth-quarter 2006 as part of FX's continued cost-reduction actions to improve productivity and its competitive position. Registrant accounts for its share of FX on an equity basis. While Registrant is reaffirming its full-year 2007 guidance of $1.12 to $1.16, it is revising its first-quarter guidance to $0.18 to $0.20 to reflect its 25% after-tax share of the FX-related restructuring charge of $0.03.
From time to time, we and our representatives may provide information, whether orally or in writing, including certain statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report, that are deemed to be forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Litigation Reform Act"). These forward-looking statements and other information are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by us using information currently available.
The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or using other similar expressions. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, we are making investors aware that such forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, any exhibits to this Current Report and other public statements we make. Such factors include, but are not limited to, our consummation of the transactions as described herein; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, "Forward-Looking Statements" section, "Legal Proceedings" section, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
 
Date: February 26, 2007


