FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20080418065201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 18, 2008, Registrant released its first quarter 2008 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
(d) Exhibits.
We are refiling the consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in connection with our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K in order to include reference to a registration statement that was inadvertently omitted.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2007 acquisition of Global Imaging Systems, Inc.; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including actions with respect to the anticipated $0.05 per share restructuring charge in the second quarter 2008; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set fourth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2007 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: April 18, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 23
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-32215, 333-02187, and 333-142900) and Form S-8 (Nos. 333-142417, 333-125250, 333-93269, 333-09821, 333-22313, 33-65269 and 33-44314) of Xerox Corporation of our report dated February 15, 2008 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 15, 2008 relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in the Form 10-K.
 
 
/s/ PC LLP
RICEWATERHOUSE
OOPERS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Stamford, Connecticut
April 18, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xerox Reports First-Quarter 2008 Results
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., April 18, 2008  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today a first-quarter loss of 27 cents per share, which includes the previously announced litigation charge of 54 cents per share. Excluding this charge, the company reported adjusted earnings per share of 27 cents, up from 24 cents reported in the first-quarter of 2007.
"We're investing in sales, expanding our distribution and winning in the marketplace through technology and services offered at competitive prices. This quarter we saw our investments flow through to improved install activity  activity that fuels our profitable annuity stream," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "However, these marketing investments as well as the mix of products sold put pressure on earnings this quarter. While the decline in gross margin was offset by a lower tax rate  delivering EPS in line with our expectations  we're focused on operational improvements to drive further earnings expansion."
Total revenue of $4.3 billion grew 13 percent in the quarter with post-sale revenue up 11 percent; this annuity stream represents more than 70 percent of total revenue. Equipment sale revenue was up 18 percent. The company's revenue includes the benefit of its acquisition of Global Imaging Systems in May 2007. Total revenue and post-sale revenue included a currency benefit of 4 percentage points; equipment sale revenue included a 5 point currency benefit.
Xerox technology is accelerating the adoption of digital in businesses and commercial print enterprises. Revenue from color grew 13 percent in the first quarter and represents 40 percent of Xerox's total revenue, up 3 points from the first quarter of 2007. Xerox color devices print the highest volume of pages in the industry  producing more than 40 billion pages last year. In the first quarter, the number of color pages grew 32 percent, and now represent 14 percent of total pages, up 3 points from the prior year. Color performance excludes Global Imaging Systems results.
color printing
Xerox document management help businesses simplify work processes, manage office technology and in-house print shops, digitize paper files, create digital archives and much more. In the first quarter, generated about $850 million in annuity revenue, up 8 percent from the prior year.
services
Xerox Global Services
 
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed and services that enable on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue increased 6 percent in the first quarter, including a 5 point currency benefit. Production color installs grew 5 percent. Installs of production black-and-white systems grew 8 percent due to demand for the and digital presses and continuous feed systems.
production
digital printing
Xerox Nuvera EA
Xerox Nuvera 288
Through expanded channels of distribution and competitive offerings for businesses of any size, Xerox continues to drive the demand for color in the with installs of systems up 40 percent. Total office revenue was up 16 percent in the first quarter, including a 4 point benefit from currency. Installs of the company's devices increased 35 percent.
office
color multifunction
black-and-white multifunction
"With the industry's broadest portfolio of document technology, our growth initiatives are aimed at increasing distribution, bringing the quality of the Xerox brand to more businesses of any size," said Mulcahy. Last year, Xerox acquired Global Imaging Systems, gaining access to 200,000 new small and mid-size businesses. Since then, Global Imaging has expanded its footprint, acquiring five more office technology dealers that now sell Xerox products. Building on this strategy to grow channels regionally, Xerox this week announced its pending purchase of , the largest office technology distributor in the Netherlands.
Veenman
During the first quarter, the combination of product mix, pricing and currency-related costs resulted in gross margin of 39.3 percent, down 1.3 points from the prior year. Investments in marketing and selling led to a 1 point increase in selling, administrative and general expenses of 25.9 percent of revenue.
The company generated $52 million in operating cash flow and repurchased $334 million in Xerox shares in the first quarter. Since launching its stock buyback program in October 2005, Xerox to-date has repurchased 161 million shares or 15 percent of outstanding shares.
In March, Xerox received preliminary court approval to settle a securities lawsuit that dated back to 2000. While not admitting any wrongdoing, Xerox agreed to settle to avoid the time, expense and uncertainty of litigation. The company took an after-tax charge of $491 million, or 54 cents per share, in the first quarter to cover the settlement and reserve for other pending securities-related cases.
Xerox expects second-quarter 2008 earnings in the range of 23 to 25 cents per share, including a restructuring charge of 5 cents per share.
Media Contacts:
Michael Moeller, Xerox Corporation, +1-203-849-2469,
michael.moeller@xerox.com
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, +1-203-849-2417,
christa.carone@xerox.com
 
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2007 acquisition of Global Imaging Systems; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including actions with respect to the anticipated $0.05 per share restructuring charge in the second quarter 2008; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our 2007 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
For more information on Xerox, visit or . For open commentary and industry perspectives, visit or . Xerox, Xerox Nuvera, the Xerox wordmark and the spherical connection symbol are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
http://www.xerox.com
http://www.xerox.com/news
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
First quarter 2008 total revenues grew 13% compared to the first quarter 2007. Our consolidated 2008 results include the results of Global Imaging Systems (GIS), which was acquired effective May 9, 2007. When including GIS in our 2007 results
3
, first quarter 2008 total revenue grew 5%. Currency had a 4-percentage point positive impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
Net Income
First quarter 2008 net loss of $244 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, included an after-tax charge of $491 million ($795 million pre-tax), or $0.54 per diluted share, associated with securities-related litigation matters. Excluding this charge, adjusted diluted earnings per share
5
was $0.27.
First quarter 2007 net income was $233 million, or $0.24 per diluted share.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income (Loss).
In 2008 we revised our segment reporting to integrate the Developing Markets Operations (DMO) into the Production, Office and Other segments. DMO is a geographic region that has matured to a level where we now manage it based on the basis of products sold, consistent with our North American and European geographic regions. Refer to Appendix III for DMO's results.
Production
Revenue
First quarter 2008 Production revenue of $1,271 million increased 6%, including a 5-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
First quarter 2008 Production profit of $101 million decreased $18 million from first quarter 2007, as higher gross profit was more than offset by increased SAG expenses.
Office
Revenue
First quarter 2008 Office revenue of $2,447 million increased 16%, including a 4-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
First quarter 2008 Office profit of $265 million increased $6 million from first quarter 2007 as a result of the inclusion of GIS and higher gross profit, which was partially offset by increased SAG expenses.
Other
Revenue
First quarter 2008 Other revenue of $617 million increased 15%, including a 3-percentage point benefit from currency, primarily reflecting the inclusion of GIS as well as increased paper revenue. Paper comprised approximately half of first quarter 2008 Other segment revenue.
Operating Profit
First quarter 2008 Other loss of $40 million increased $24 million from first quarter 2007 primarily due to lower value-added services and wide format gross profit, increased SAG expenses reflecting the inclusion of GIS, and higher foreign exchange losses.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
 
First quarter 2008 total gross margin decreased 1.3-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2007, primarily due to price declines and a higher proportion of revenue from lower margin products, including paper.
Sales gross margin decreased 2.0-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2007, primarily due to the 2.9-percentage point impact of price declines and the adverse impact of the strengthened Yen on our costs, which were only partially offset by cost improvements and other variances.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin decreased 0.2-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2007, as unfavorable mix was partially offset by an adjustment related to the capitalized costs associated with equipment on operating leases, primarily in Office, which benefited the margin by 1.0 percentage points. Cost improvements offset price declines of 1.2-percentage points.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("R,D&E")
 
R,D&E of $221 million in the first quarter 2008 was $3 million higher than the first quarter 2007. R&D of $184 million increased $3 million and sustaining engineering costs of $37 million were unchanged from first quarter 2007. R,D&E as a percentage of revenue declined 0.6-percentage points, as we leveraged our current R,D&E investments to support GIS operations.
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,124 million in the first quarter 2008 were $170 million higher than the first quarter 2007, reflecting the inclusion of GIS, as well as a $38 million negative impact from currency.
 
In addition, about half of the 1.0 percentage point increase in SAG as a percentage of revenue is due to additional expense related to our 2007 compensation program. The SAG expense increase reflected the following:
 
 
 
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 57,500 at March 31, 2008, increased approximately 100 from year-end 2007 primarily reflecting a GIS acquisition and additional sales people.
Provision for Litigation, Net
Net first quarter 2008 charges of $795 million reflect reserves for the $670 million preliminary court approved settlement of Carlson v. Xerox Corporation and other pending securities-related cases, net of expected insurance recoveries.
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
First quarter 2008 non-financing interest expense of $54 million was $4 million lower than first quarter 2007, reflecting the benefit of lower interest rates partially offset by higher average debt balances.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
The $7 million gain in the first quarter 2008 reflects the sale of real estate.
Currency Losses, Net
Net first quarter 2008 currency losses of $19 million were $16 million higher than first quarter 2007, primarily due to losses associated with the significant and rapid weakening of the U.S. Dollar and Euro as compared to the Yen.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
First quarter 2008 intangible assets amortization of $13 million was $7 million higher than the first quarter 2007, reflecting the intangible assets associated with our GIS acquisition.
 
Income Taxes
 
The first quarter 2008 effective tax rate was 47.5%, which included a $304 million tax benefit associated with the $795 million net provision for securities-related litigation matters. Excluding the impact of the litigation charge, the adjusted effective tax rate
6
was 20.9%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the net tax benefits from the resolution and re-measurement of certain unrecognized tax positions as well as the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
The first quarter 2007 effective tax rate of 31.0% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily reflecting the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remaining quarters of 2008 will approximate 30%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $28 million increased $22 million compared to first quarter 2007, reflecting our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's higher net income. First quarter 2007 included charges of $23 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox restructuring. First quarter 2008 included charges of $10 million primarily related to pension settlements associated with the first quarter 2007 Fuji Xerox restructuring.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and 2007:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $52 million in the first quarter 2008. The $135 million decrease in cash from first quarter 2007 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $65 million in the first quarter 2008. The $81 million decrease in cash from first quarter 2007 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $250 million in the first quarter 2008. The $140 million increase in cash from first quarter 2007 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
Accounts Receivable Sales Arrangement
During the first quarter 2008 we sold $200 million of accounts receivables, as compared to $176 million in the fourth quarter 2007, under an existing accounts receivables sales arrangement in Europe. $178 million of receivables sold to date under this arrangement remained uncollected by the third party as of March 31, 2008.
Subsequent Events
On February 29, 2008, the Company exercised its right under its $2.0 billion Credit Facility to request a one-year extension of the maturity date of the Facility. Subsequent to March 31, 2008, lenders ("the Consenting Lenders") representing at least $1.4 billion (or approximately 70%) of commitments under the Facility agreed to the extension. Accordingly, effective April 30, 2008, the portion of the Facility represented by Consenting Lenders will mature on April 30, 2013 and the remaining portion of the Facility will continue to mature on April 30, 2012.
On April 16, 2008 the Company announced a definitive agreement to acquire Veenman B.V., a subsidiary of Corporate Express, for approximately $68 million (43 million) expanding Xerox's reach into the small and mid-sized business (SMB) market in the Netherlands. Veenman is the Netherlands' leading independent distributor of office printers, copiers, and multifunction devices serving small and mid-size businesses. The acquisition will be an all-cash transaction and is expected to close later this year, pending approval from the Dutch antitrust authority and other agencies.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2007 acquisition of Global Imaging Systems (GIS); the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of
 
competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including actions with respect to the anticipated $0.05 per share restructuring charge in the second quarter 2008; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our 2007 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition we have discussed the following non-GAAP measures:
We discussed the revenue growth for the first quarter and the year-to-date 2008 periods using non-GAAP financial measures. To understand trends in the business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust the revenue growth rates to illustrate the impact of the acquisition of GIS by including their estimated revenue for the comparable 2007 periods. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "adjusted revenue" in the following reconciliation table. Management believes these measures give investors an additional perspective on revenue trends, as well as the impact to the Company of the acquisition of GIS that was completed in May 2007.
1. Adjusted Revenue:
The diluted earnings per share and the effective tax rate for the first quarter 2008 and year-to-date 2008 are discussed in this presentation using non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effects of charges associated with securities-related litigation matters. Management believes that it is helpful to exclude these effects to better understand and analyze the current period's results given the nature and size of the charge as well as its relation to prior year events.
2. Adjusted Diluted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate:
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide an additional means of analyzing the current period results against the corresponding prior period results. However, all of these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2008 first quarter presentation slides available at www.xerox.com/investor.
 
Revenue "As Adjusted" adds GIS's revenues for the period January 1
st
through March 31
st
2007 to our first quarter 2007 reported revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 
 
 


