FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20080710162124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Election of Directors
On July 10, 2008, Registrant's Board of Directors elected Charles O. Prince III to serve on Registrant's Board of Directors effective immediately. A copy of the Press Release relating to this announcement is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: July 10, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Charles Prince Elected to Xerox Board of Directors
Board declares dividend; promotes Stephen Cronin to senior vice president
NORWALK, Conn., July 10, 2008  Xerox Corporation's (NYSE: XRX) board of directors today elected Charles Prince, former chairman and chief executive officer of Citigroup Inc., to the board.
"Chuck is a visionary leader whose unique talent and exceptional business experience will be a tremendous asset to our board," said Xerox Chairman and CEO Anne Mulcahy.
Prince was appointed CEO of Citigroup in 2003 and remained in this position until his retirement in 2007. He is a member of the board of directors of Johnson & Johnson and a trustee of The Brookings Institution and of The Juilliard School. He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Business Council.
A graduate of the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, Prince also holds a master's degree in international relations and a law degree from the University of Southern California, and a Master of Laws degree from Georgetown University.
Xerox's board of directors today also declared a quarterly cash dividend of 4.25 cents per share on Xerox common stock. The dividend is payable on Oct. 31 to shareholders of record on Sept. 30.
In addition, the board promoted Stephen Cronin, president, Xerox Global Services, to a senior vice president of the corporation. Cronin joined the company in 1989 and has held a variety of senior positions in Xerox's European and developing markets organizations.
Media Contact:
Bill McKee, Xerox Corporation, 585-423-4476, bill.mckee@xerox.com
For more information on Xerox, visit or . For open commentary and industry perspectives, visit or . Xerox, the Xerox wordmark and the spherical connection symbol are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
http://www.xerox.com
http://www.xerox.com/news
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts


