FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20080124064604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2008, Registrant released its fourth quarter 2007 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that the future business operations of GIS will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the GIS transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the GIS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set fourth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2007 and our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99_1
 
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2007 Earnings of 41 Cents Per Share; Reiterates Full-Year 2008 Earnings Guidance
 
 
 
 
Norwalk, Conn., Jan. 24, 2008  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today fourth-quarter 2007 earnings per share of 41 cents. This compares to 22 cents from fourth-quarter 2006, which included a 16 cent per share restructuring charge. Excluding the charge, earnings per share for fourth-quarter 2007 is up 8 percent from the adjusted prior year EPS.
Total revenue of $4.9 billion grew 11 percent in the quarter with post-sale and financing revenue up 12 percent; this annuity stream represents about 70 percent of total revenue. Both total revenue and post-sale revenue included a currency benefit of 4 percentage points as well as the benefit from Xerox's acquisition of .
Global Imaging Systems
"Our growing annuity revenue and strong cash generation, along with our disciplined approach to controlling costs, result in consistent delivery of solid performance year after year," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "In 2007, we expanded earnings, grew revenue, generated $1.9 billion in operating cash flow, repurchased $631 million in Xerox shares and declared a dividend. As important, we fortified our leadership in the marketplace through increased distribution and innovative technology and document management services.
"Xerox operates in a global business environment, serving a wide range of markets with more than 50 percent of our revenue generated from customers outside the U.S.," she added. "This worldwide reach and our effective business model  combined with our competitive offerings and strong recurring revenues  position us well to continue building value for shareholders. As a result, we remain committed to delivering on our 2008 full-year EPS guidance of $1.31 to $1.35, and we are increasing our guidance for
full-year operating cash flow."
The acquisition of Global Imaging Systems, which provides a broader distribution to small and mid-size businesses in the U.S., led to a 10 percent increase in equipment sales, including a 5 point benefit from currency. In 2007, Xerox introduced 39 products, more than twice the number of products it launched in 2006. More than two-thirds of Xerox's equipment sale revenue comes from products launched in the past two years.
Revenue from grew 14 percent in the fourth quarter and now represents 40 percent of Xerox's total revenue, up 3 points from the fourth quarter of 2006. Xerox color devices print the highest volume of pages in the industry  producing more than 40 billion color pages in 2007, an increase of more than 30 percent from 2006. In the fourth quarter, the number of color pages grew 34 percent, and now represent 14 percent of total pages, up 4 points from the prior year. Color performance excludes Global Imaging Systems results.
color
Xerox help businesses simplify work processes, manage office technology and in-house print shops, digitize paper files, create digital archives and much more. During 2007, generated $3.4 billion in annuity revenue, an 8 percent increase over 2006.
services
Xerox Global Services
"As businesses shift to more color in the and begin to see the cost benefits of simplifying their work processes, they're turning to Xerox for our and expertise. Our focus on color and document services is fueling our annuity stream and creating long-term value in our company," said Mulcahy.
office
innovation
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed and services that enable on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue increased 5 percent in the fourth quarter, including a 6 point currency benefit. Production color installs grew 3 percent. Installs of production black-and-white systems declined 10 percent. Demand for the and digital presses as well as continuous feed systems only partially offset declines from other high-volume and light-production systems.
production
digital printing
Xerox Nuvera EA
Xerox Nuvera 288
Through expanded channels of distribution and competitive offerings for businesses of any size, Xerox continues to drive the demand for color in the office with installs of systems up 67 percent. Total office revenue was up 14 percent in the fourth quarter including a 5 point benefit from currency. Installs of the company's devices increased 6 percent.
color multifunction
black-and-white multifunction
Gross margins were 40.5 percent, down about a half a point from the fourth quarter of 2006. Selling, administrative and general expenses were 24.3 percent of revenue, up 1 point from fourth-quarter 2006. The strength of Xerox's annuity-based business model led to a significant increase in operating cash flow, generating $1 billion in the fourth quarter and $1.9 billion for the full year.
Since launching its stock buyback program in October 2005, Xerox has repurchased 137 million shares or 13 percent of outstanding shares. Earlier this week, Xerox's Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion, adding to the remaining $370 million available for share repurchase.
 
Xerox expects first-quarter 2008 earnings in the range of 25 to 28 cents per share.
Full-Year 2007 Results
 
 
 
 
Media Contacts:
Michael Moeller, Xerox Corporation, 203-849-2469,
michael.moeller@xerox.com
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, 203-849-2417,
christa.carone@xerox.com
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that the future business operations of Global Imaging Systems (GIS) will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the GIS transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the GIS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees, agents, distributors and suppliers; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2007, as well as in our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
For more information on Xerox, visit http://www.xerox.com or http://www.xerox.com/news. For open commentary and industry perspectives, visit http://www.xerox.com/blogs or http://www.xerox.com/podcasts. Xerox
, WorkCentre
, Xerox Nuvera
, iGen3
, the Xerox wordmark and the spherical connection symbol are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. DocuColor
is used under license.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
Fourth quarter 2007 total revenues grew 11% compared to the fourth quarter 2006. Our consolidated 2007 results include the results of Global Imaging Systems (GIS) since May 9, 2007, the effective date of the acquisition. When including GIS in our 2006 results
3
, fourth quarter 2007 total revenue grew 5%. Currency had a 4-percentage point positive impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
Net Income
Fourth quarter 2007 net income of $382 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, increased $168 million or $0.19 per diluted share from the fourth quarter 2006.
Fourth quarter 2006 net income of $214 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, included a $160 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, after-tax charge related to restructuring.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income
Production
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2007 Production revenue of $1,382 million increased 5%, including a 6-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Fourth quarter 2007 Production profit of $169 million decreased $6 million from fourth quarter 2006 as higher gross profit was more than offset by increased SAG expenses.
Office
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2007 Office revenue of $2,329 million increased 14%, including a 5-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Fourth quarter 2007 Office profit of $290 million increased $14 million from fourth quarter 2006 as a result of the inclusion of GIS and higher gross profit, which was partially offset by increased SAG expenses.
DMO
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2007 DMO revenue of $631 million increased 14%, reflecting:
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Fourth quarter 2007 DMO profit of $49 million increased $4 million from fourth quarter 2006, reflecting higher gross profit, which was partially offset by increased SAG expenses.
 
Other
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2007 Other revenue of $540 million increased 18%, including a 4-percentage point benefit from currency, primarily reflecting the inclusion of GIS as well as increased paper revenue. Paper comprised approximately 40% of fourth quarter 2007 Other segment revenue.
Operating Profit
Fourth quarter 2007 Other profit of $11 million decreased $15 million from fourth quarter 2006 primarily due to the absence of the $21 million 2006 gain from the sale of our Corporate headquarters and a parcel of vacant land.
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
Fourth quarter 2007 total gross margin of 40.5% decreased 0.6-percentage points compared to the fourth quarter 2006.
Sales gross margin increased 0.3-percentage points compared to the fourth quarter 2006, primarily as cost improvements, product mix and other variances more than offset the 2.3-percentage point impact of price declines.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin decreased 1.2-percentage points compared to the fourth quarter 2006, as cost improvements and other variances did not fully offset the 2.5-percentage point impact of price declines and unfavorable mix.
Financing income margin declined 1.0-percentage points primarily due to lower financing income.
 
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("R,D&E")
 
R,D&E of $238 million in the fourth quarter 2007 was $1 million higher than the fourth quarter 2006. R&D of $200 million decreased $4 million and sustaining engineering costs of $38 million increased $5 million from fourth quarter 2006. R,D&E as a percentage of revenue declined 0.5-percentage points as we leveraged our current R,D&E investments to support GIS operations.
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,186 million in the fourth quarter 2007 were $166 million higher than the fourth quarter 2006, including a $40 million negative impact from currency. The SAG expense increase reflected the following:
 
 
 
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 57,400 at December 31, 2007, increased approximately 3,700 from year-end 2006 primarily reflecting the addition of GIS and Advectis, Inc. personnel, and the hiring of former contract employees in certain Latin American subsidiaries, partially offset by reductions from the 2006 restructuring programs.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
The $21 million gain in the fourth quarter 2006 reflects the sale of our Corporate headquarters and a parcel of vacant land.
Currency Losses, Net
Net fourth quarter 2007 currency losses of $14 million and net fourth quarter 2006 currency losses of $8 million primarily reflect the mark-to-market of derivative contracts which economically hedge the cost of anticipated foreign currency denominated payments. The change from 2006 is primarily attributable to currency fluctuations.
Legal Matters
Fourth quarter 2006 legal expenses of $7 million were related to probable losses on various legal matters.
Income Taxes
In the fourth quarter 2007, we recorded income tax expense of $125 million compared with income tax expenses of $59 million in the fourth quarter 2006. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter 2007 was 26.6% versus 24.2% in the fourth quarter 2006.
The fourth quarter 2007 effective tax rate of 26.6% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0% primarily reflecting tax benefits from geographical mix of income and the related effective tax rates in those jurisdictions as well as the resolution of various tax matters, partially offset by changes in tax law.
The fourth quarter 2006 effective tax rate of 24.2% was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the geographical mix of income and the related effective tax rates in those jurisdictions, a tax law change and the resolution of various tax matters.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for 2008 will approximate 30%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $37 million increased $8 million compared to fourth quarter 2006, reflecting our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's higher net income.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the three months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities of $1,010 million in the fourth quarter 2007 increased $290 million from fourth quarter 2006 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash provided by investing activities was $7 million in the fourth quarter 2007. The $23 million increase in cash flows from fourth quarter 2006 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $780 million in the fourth quarter 2007. The $130 million decrease in cash flows from fourth quarter 2006 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities and Debt
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
As of December 31, 2007, approximately 4% of total debt was secured by finance receivables and other assets compared to 29% at December 31, 2006.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that the future business operations of Global Imaging Systems (GIS) will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the GIS
 
transaction will not be met and that disruptions from the GIS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees, agents, distributors and suppliers; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2007 as well as in our 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition we have discussed the following non-GAAP measures:
We discussed the revenue growth for the fourth quarter and full-year 2007 and the corresponding 2006 periods using non-GAAP financial measures. Management believes these measures give investors an additional perspective on revenue trends, as well as the impact to the Company of the acquisition of GIS that was completed in May 2007. To understand these trends in the business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to illustrate the impact on revenue growth rates of our acquisition of GIS. We have done this by including GIS' revenue for the comparable 2006 periods. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "adjusted revenue" in the following reconciliation table.
1. "Adjusted Revenue":
The diluted earnings per share for the 2006 fourth quarter and 2006 full-year is discussed in this presentation using non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effects of (i) restructuring charges recorded in the 2006 fourth quarter and 2006 full-year, (ii) the tax benefits from the finalization of tax audits during the 2006 full-year, (iii) charges relating to certain litigation matters during the 2006 full-year, and (iv) the charge related to the termination of the 2003 credit facility in the 2006 full-year.
2. "Adjusted EPS":
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide an additional means of analyzing the current period results against the corresponding prior period results. However, all of these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2007 fourth quarter presentation slides available at www.xerox.com/investor.
 
Revenue "As Adjusted" adds GIS' results for the period from May 9
th
through December 31
st
2006 to our 2006 reported revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office, Developing Markets Operations (DMO) and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 


