FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20080724065607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 24, 2008, Registrant released its second quarter 2008 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2007 acquisition of Global Imaging Systems, Inc.; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and our 2007 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: July 24, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xerox Reports Second-Quarter 2008 Earnings of 24 cents per share
 
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., July 24, 2008  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today second-quarter earnings of 24 cents per share, including a previously announced restructuring charge of 5 cents per share.
Total revenue of $4.5 billion grew 8 percent in the quarter, including a 4 point benefit from currency. Post-sale revenue, which represents more than 70 percent of the company's total revenue, increased 10 percent. Equipment sale revenue was up 2 percent. The company's revenue includes the benefit of its acquisition of in May 2007.
Global Imaging Systems
"Our annuity-based global business led to steady revenue growth this quarter along with earnings and cash in line with our expectations," said Anne M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "While the U.S. economy creates challenges for our business with large enterprises, we're seeing consistent positive performance in the small and mid-size business market, with strong results from our developing markets and Global Imaging operations. In addition, demand for our document services, which help customers reduce costs and improve productivity, is up this quarter. Strong revenue growth in these key areas does have an impact on gross margin, which we're offsetting with cost reductions and operational improvements that help deliver solid bottom-line results."
During the quarter, Xerox generated $442 million in operating cash flow. The company also repurchased $377 million in Xerox shares, and announced today that its board of directors authorized an additional $1 billion in share repurchase, bringing the total available authorization for share repurchase to $1.7 billion.
Xerox technology is accelerating the adoption of in businesses and commercial print enterprises. Revenue from grew 11 percent in the second quarter and represents 40 percent of Xerox's total revenue, up 2 points from the second quarter of 2007. Xerox color devices print the highest volume of pages in the industry  producing more than 25 billion pages in the first half of this year and more than 40 billion pages last year. In the second quarter, the number of color pages grew 28 percent, and now represent 16 percent of total pages, up 4 points from the prior year. Color performance excludes results from Global Imaging Systems.
digital color printing
color
Xerox document management help businesses simplify work processes, manage office technology and in-house print shops, digitize paper files, create digital archives and much more. For the first half of 2008, generated nearly $1.8 billion in annuity revenue, up 8 percent from the prior year.
services
Xerox Global Services
 
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed and services that enable on-demand, personalized printing. Total production revenue increased 4 percent in the second quarter, including a 5 point currency benefit. Production color installs declined 12 percent in the second quarter largely due to the timing of new product introductions. In late May, Xerox launched six production color systems, with installs primarily beginning in the second half of this year. Production black-and-white systems declined 8 percent. Demand for the and digital presses only partially offset declines from other high volume and light production systems.
production
digital printing
Xerox Nuvera EA
Xerox Nuvera 288
Through expanded channels of distribution and competitive offerings for businesses of any size, Xerox continues to drive the demand for color in the with installs of systems up 34 percent from the prior year. Total office revenue was up 9 percent in the second quarter, including a 4 point benefit from currency. Installs of the company's devices increased 10 percent. During the second quarter, Xerox launched 12 multifunction systems and printers, competitively priced to meet the needs of workplaces small to large.
office
color multifunction
black-and-white multifunction
Accelerated growth in Xerox's developing markets continued in the second quarter with revenue up 19 percent, reflecting positive performance in all regions.
The effect of more revenue from developing markets and services as well as continued pricing investments resulted in a second quarter gross margin of 39.2 percent, down 1.1 points from the prior year. Selling, administrative and general expenses as a percent of revenue at 25.8 percent was about flat compared to the second quarter of 2007, while the company continued to make investments in marketing and sales coverage.
During the second quarter, Xerox made more progress in expanding distribution with the acquisition of Veenman B.V., the leading independent office technology distributor in the Netherlands, as well as Global Imaging's purchase of Saxon Business Systems, which gives Global Imaging even more scale in the U.S.
"We have the flexibility to be aggressive in the marketplace while delivering on our earnings expectations," added Mulcahy. "We're launching more competitively priced products than anyone else in our industry, growing our sales channels to reach more businesses of any size anywhere, and making marketing investments that drive installs of Xerox technology and fuel our healthy annuity stream."
Xerox expects third-quarter 2008 earnings in the range of 28 to 30 cents per share and maintains its full-year earnings expectations of $1.26 to $1.30 per share.
Media Contacts:
Michael Moeller, Xerox Corporation, +1-203-849-2469,
michael.moeller@xerox.com
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, +1-203-849-2417,
christa.carone@xerox.com
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors
 
 
include but are not limited to the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2007 acquisition of Global Imaging Systems; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 as well as our 2007 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
For more information on Xerox, visit or . For open commentary and industry perspectives, visit or . Xerox, Xerox Nuvera, the Xerox wordmark and the spherical connection symbol are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
http://www.xerox.com
http://www.xerox.com/news
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
Second quarter 2008 total revenues grew 8% compared to the second quarter 2007. Our consolidated 2008 results include the results of Global Imaging Systems (GIS), which was acquired effective May 9, 2007. When including a full quarter of GIS in our 2007 results, second quarter 2008 total revenue grew 5%
3
. Currency had a 4-percentage point positive impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
Net Income
Second quarter 2008 net income of $215 million, or $0.24 per diluted share included charges for after-tax restructuring of $43 million, or $0.05 per diluted share.
Second quarter 2007 net income was $266 million, or $0.28 per diluted share.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income.
In 2008 we revised our segment reporting to integrate the Developing Markets Operations (DMO) into the Production, Office and Other segments. DMO is a geographic region that has matured to a level where we now manage it based on the basis of products sold, consistent with our North American and European geographic regions. Refer to Appendix III for DMO's results.
Production
Revenue
Second quarter 2008 Production revenue of $1,337 million increased 4%, including a 5-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2008 Production profit of $87 million decreased $24 million from second quarter 2007 due to increased SAG expenses associated with sales coverage investments and spending associated with the drupa trade show.
Office
Revenue
Second quarter 2008 Office revenue of $2,526 million increased 9%, including a 4-percentage point benefit from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2008 Office profit of $279 million increased $12 million from second quarter 2007 as a result of the inclusion of GIS for a full quarter in 2008 and higher gross profit, which was partially offset by increased SAG expenses.
Other
Revenue
Second quarter 2008 Other revenue of $670 million increased 12%, including a 3-percentage point benefit from currency, primarily reflecting a full quarter of GIS results in 2008 as well as increased paper revenue. Paper comprised approximately half of second quarter 2008 Other segment revenue.
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2008 Other loss of $16 million improved $15 million from second quarter 2007, reflecting higher income from licensing arrangements, value-added services and paper sales.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
Second quarter 2008 total gross margin decreased 1.1-percentage points compared to the second quarter 2007, primarily due to price declines and a higher proportion of revenue from lower margin channels and products.
Sales gross margin decreased 1.0-percentage points compared to the second quarter 2007, primarily due to the 2.8-percentage point impact of price declines as well as channel and product mix, which were partially offset by cost improvements and other variances.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin decreased 1.2-percentage points compared to the second quarter 2007 driven in part by a higher mix of document management services at a lower gross margin. Cost improvements offset price declines of 1.2-percentage points.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("R,D&E")
 
R,D&E of $223 million in the second quarter 2008 was unchanged from the second quarter 2007. R&D of $190 million increased $2 million and sustaining engineering costs of $33 million decreased $2 million from second quarter 2007. R,D&E as a percentage of revenue declined 0.4-percentage points, as we leveraged our current R,D&E investments to support GIS operations.
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,170 million in the second quarter 2008 were $89 million higher than the second quarter 2007, reflecting a full quarter of GIS results in 2008, as well as a $33 million negative impact from currency. The SAG expense increase reflected the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring Charges
During the second quarter 2008, we recorded restructuring charges of $63 million primarily related to headcount reductions of approximately 1,000 employees primarily in North America. About two-thirds of these charges are associated with initiatives focused on improving gross margin and the remainder are primarily focused on reducing selling, administrative and general expense. The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2008, for all programs was $119 million, of which approximately $95 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 58,000 at June 30, 2008, increased approximately 600 from year-end 2007 primarily reflecting additional headcount associated with acquisitions and additional sales professionals.
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Second quarter 2008 non-financing interest expense of $65 million was $5 million lower than second quarter 2007, reflecting the benefit of lower interest rates partially offset by higher average debt balances.
Interest Income
Second quarter 2008 interest income of $9 million decreased $5 million reflecting lower average cash balances and lower rates of return.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
The $15 million in gains on sales of businesses and assets in the second quarter 2008 is primarily related to the sale of certain surplus facilities in Latin America.
 
Amortization of Intangible Assets
Second quarter 2008 amortization of intangible assets increased $3 million primarily due to the amortization of intangibles associated with our GIS acquisition.
Legal Matters
Second quarter 2008 litigation expenses of $6 million were related to probable losses on various legal matters.
Income Taxes
 
The second quarter 2008 effective tax rate was 24.1% and included a 1.5% benefit from the tax effect of the second quarter restructuring charges. Excluding the impact of the restructuring charges, the adjusted effective tax rate was 25.6%
5
as compared to 24.1% in the second quarter 2007. These rates were lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily reflecting tax benefits from the utilization of foreign tax credits and the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remaining quarters of 2008 will approximate 26%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $29 million increased $2 million compared to second quarter 2007, reflecting our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's higher net income as well as favorable currency.
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the three months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $442 million in the second quarter 2008. The $54 million increase in cash from second quarter 2007 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $285 million in the second quarter 2008. The $1,259 million increase in cash from second quarter 2007 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $154 million in the second quarter 2008. The $931 million decrease in cash from second quarter 2007 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
Accounts Receivable Sales Arrangement
During the second quarter 2008 we sold $168 million of accounts receivables, as compared to $200 million in the first quarter 2008, under an existing accounts receivables sales arrangement in Europe. Substantially all of the receivables sold under this arrangement during the second quarter 2008 remained uncollected by the third party as of June 30, 2008.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2007 acquisition of Global Imaging Systems, Inc; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and in our 2007 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, we have discussed the following non-GAAP measures:
1. Adjusted Revenue: We discussed the revenue growth for the second quarter 2008 using non-GAAP financial measures. To understand trends in the business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust the revenue growth rates to illustrate the impact of the acquisition of GIS by including their estimated revenue for the comparable 2007 period. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "As Adjusted" in the following reconciliation table. Management believes these measures give investors an additional perspective on revenue trends, as well as the impact to the Company of the acquisition of GIS that was completed in May 2007.
2. Adjusted Effective Tax Rate: The effective tax rate for the second quarter 2008 is discussed in this presentation using a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the effect of charges associated with restructuring. Management believes that it is helpful to exclude this effect to better understand and analyze the current period's effective tax rate given the discrete nature of the charge in the period.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period results against the corresponding prior period results. However, all of these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2008 second quarter presentation slides available at www.xerox.com/investor.
 
Revenue "As Adjusted" adds GIS's revenues for the period April 1
st
through May 8
th
2007 to our second quarter 2007 reported revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 
Effective January 1, 2008, we revised our segment reporting to integrate DMO into the Production, Office and Other segments. We will continue to provide DMO's revenue and profit on a supplemental basis as follows through 2008.
 
 
 


