FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20090723065229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 23, 2009, Registrant released its second quarter 2009 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 as well as in our 2008 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: July 23, 2009
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Xerox Reports Second-Quarter 2009 Earnings
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., July 23, 2009  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today second-quarter 2009 results that include earnings per share of 16 cents and $609 million in operating cash flow.
"During the second quarter, we exceeded our expectations for EPS and cash flow, reflecting our disciplined approach to operational improvements across the board," said , Xerox chief executive officer. "Gross margin and cash are up; expenses are down  all key factors to our strong financial position that is serving us well during this tough economy.
Ursula M. Burns
"At the same time, our industry continues to face challenges from the decline in enterprise spending on technology. We have seen sequential improvement with revenue up 5 percent from the first quarter. However, assuming current economic conditions persist, we expect revenue will remain under pressure during the balance of this year," she added.
Total revenue of $3.7 billion was down 18 percent from second-quarter 2008 including a 5 point negative impact from currency. Post-sale and financing revenue was down 14 percent, or 8 percent in constant currency. Equipment sale revenue declined 29 percent, or 25 percent in constant currency. The revenue decline is largely due to continued spending constraints in the overall business environment, which is delaying purchasing decisions for new technology and slowing demand for document-related supplies.
"In this cost-conscious environment, our clients are responding to Xerox's that reduce document costs by up to 30 percent, and to the value we provide through innovation like the
managed print services
Xerox ColorQube
TM
solid ink system that cuts the cost of color pages by up to 62 percent," noted Burns. "Xerox's value proposition along with the breadth of our offerings for businesses of any size, expanded distribution, and global account management gives us confidence in the strength of our long-term competitive position."
Second-quarter operating cash flow of $609 million was $167 million higher than prior year driven by working capital improvements. Following this strong performance, the company raised its expectations for full-year operating cash flow to $1.5 billion from $1.3 billion. Xerox ended the second quarter with a cash balance of $1.2 billion, and total debt was down $347 million through the first half of the year. Xerox plans to reduce overall debt by $1 billion this year.
Gross margin was 40.2 percent in the second quarter, an increase of one point from the prior year and up 1.3 points from the first quarter of this year. Second-quarter selling, administrative and general (SAG) expenses were down year over year by $157 million and SAG as a percent of revenue was 27.2 percent.
Xerox expects third-quarter 2009 earnings per share in the range of 10 cents to 12 cents, delivering full-year 2009 earnings per share of 50 cents to 55 cents.
Media Contact:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
This release discusses revenue growth using a measure noted as "Constant Currency" that excludes the effects of currency translation. Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures.
Note:
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
For more information on Xerox, visit or . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , , or .
http://www.xerox.com
http://www.xerox.com/news
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.facebook.com/xeroxcorp
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
http://www.xerox.com/thoughtleaders
Xerox, and the sphere of connectivity design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
(
1)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
(
1)
 
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
Second quarter 2009 total revenues decreased 18% compared to the second quarter 2008. Worldwide economic weakness continues to negatively impact our major market segments and currency had a 5-percentage point negative impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
Second quarter 2009 net income attributable to Xerox of $140 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, included a charge of $9 million or $0.01 per diluted share, for our share of Fuji Xerox's after-tax restructuring.
Second quarter 2008 net income of $215 million, or $0.24 per diluted share included charges for after-tax restructuring of $43 million, or $0.05 per diluted share.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income.
Note:
 
Production
Revenue
Second quarter 2009 Production revenue of $1,095 million decreased 18%, including a 6-percentage point negative impact from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2009 Production profit of $51 million decreased $36 million from second quarter 2008 due to lower gross profit flow-through from revenue declines partially offset by lower RD&E and SAG as a result of continued cost savings.
 
Office
Revenue
Second quarter 2009 Office revenue of $2,126 million decreased 16%, including a 5-percentage point negative impact from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2009 Office profit of $229 million decreased $50 million from second quarter 2008, as revenue declines were partially offset by cost savings resulting in improved gross margin and lower RD&E and SAG.
Other
Revenue
Second quarter 2009 Other revenue of $510 million decreased 24%, including a 4-percentage point negative impact from currency, primarily driven by declines in revenue from paper, wide format and licensing arrangements. Paper comprised approximately half of the second quarter 2009 and 2008 Other segment revenue.
Operating Profit
Second quarter 2009 Other loss of $66 million increased $50 million from second quarter 2008, reflecting lower income from licensing arrangements, paper and equity income.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
Second quarter 2009 total gross margin increased 1.0-percentage point compared to the second quarter 2008 primarily driven by cost improvements enabled by restructuring and our cost actions as well as the decline of revenues from lower margin channels offset by the 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact of transaction currency.
Sales gross margin decreased 0.4-percentage points compared to the second quarter 2008 as the 1.8-percentage point adverse impact of transaction currency on our inventory purchases and price declines impact of 0.7-percentage points were partially offset by the positive mix of revenues and cost improvements.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin increased 1.4-percentage points compared to the second quarter 2008 primarily due to the reduction in costs driven by restructuring and cost actions. These cost improvements more than offset the approximately 1.0-percentage point impact of pricing.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
 
RD&E of $202 million in the second quarter 2009 was $21 million lower than the second quarter 2008 reflecting our restructuring and cost actions which consolidated the Production and Office development and engineering infrastructure. R&D of $172 million decreased $18 million, and sustaining engineering costs of $30 million decreased $3 million from second quarter 2008.
We invest in technological research and development, particularly in color, software and services. We believe that our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
 
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,013 million in the second quarter 2009 were $157 million lower than the second quarter 2008, including a $59 million benefit from currency. The SAG expense decrease reflected the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the second quarter 2009, we recorded a net restructuring credit of $1 million. The net credit reflected $11 million of severance-related charges for new actions and $12 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior year initiatives. During the second quarter 2008, we recorded restructuring charges of $63 million primarily related to headcount reductions of approximately 1,000 employees predominantly in North America.
The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2009, for all programs was $183 million, of which approximately $168 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 54,700 at June 30, 2009 decreased approximately 2,400 from year-end 2008 and 3,300 from second quarter 2008, primarily due to restructuring reductions partially offset by additional headcount related to GIS's acquisition of ComDoc, Inc.
Other Expenses, Net
 
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Second quarter 2009 non-financing interest expense of $63 million was $2 million lower than second quarter 2008, driven by the benefit of lower interest rates that more than offset the impact of higher average debt balances.
Gain on Sales of Businesses and Assets
The gains on sales of businesses and assets of $7 million and $15 million for the second quarter 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily relate to the sale of facilities in Latin America in both periods.
All Other Expenses, Net
Second quarter 2009 all other expenses net increased $9 million from second quarter 2008 primarily driven by an increase in interest expense on Brazil tax and labor contingencies.
Income Taxes
 
The second quarter 2009 effective tax rate was 29.9%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the net tax benefits from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
The second quarter 2008 effective tax rate was 23.2% and included a 1.7% benefit from the tax effect of the second quarter restructuring charges. Excluding the impact of the restructuring charges, the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.9%
4
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the tax benefits from the utilization of foreign tax credits and the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remaining quarters of 2009 will approximate 28%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $9 million decreased $20 million compared to second quarter 2008, which reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's lower net income which was
 
impacted by the worldwide economic weakness. Second quarter 2009 included our $9 million share of Fuji Xerox's after-tax restructuring charges.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $609 million in the second quarter 2009. The $167 million increase in cash from second quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $36 million in the second quarter 2009. The $249 million increase in cash from second quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities was $82 million in the second quarter 2009. The $236 million increase in cash from second quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
The reduction of $265 million in total finance assets, net includes favorable currency of $109 million.
 
The following summarizes our debt as of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008:
 
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation and therefore we maintain a certain level of debt which we refer to as financing debt to support our investment in these lease contracts which are reflected in Total Finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
Sale of Accounts Receivables
During the second quarter 2009 we sold $373 million of accounts receivable without recourse, as compared to $237 million in the first quarter 2009. Fees associated with these sales were approximately $3 million and $2 million, respectively. $358 million of receivables sold to date remained uncollected by the third party purchasers as of June 30, 2009, and Xerox does not have any current or future liability for these non-recourse sales.
Accounting Change
On January 1, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 160 "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51" ("FAS 160"). FAS 160 requires that minority interests be renamed noncontrolling interests and be presented as a separate component of equity. In addition the Company must report a consolidated net income (loss) measure that includes the amount attributable to such noncontrolling interests for all periods presented.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2009 second quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Adjusted Effective Tax Rate
The effective tax rate for the second quarter 2008 is discussed in this presentation using a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the effect of charges associated with restructuring. Management believes that it is helpful to exclude this effect to better understand, analyze and compare the prior period's income tax expense and effective tax rate to the current period amounts given the discrete nature and size of this item in the prior period.
 
 
APPENDIX I
Xerox Corporation
Earnings per Common Share
(Dollars in millions, except per share data. Shares in thousands)
 
 
APPENDIX II
Xerox Corporation
Reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-Tax Income
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 
 
 


