FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20090424064843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective as of April 23, 2009, Registrant amended its April 30, 2007 Credit Agreement with affiliates of Citibank, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and a group of lenders. The amendment increases the permitted leverage ratio (debt/consolidated EBITDA) to 4.25x through June 30, 2010. The permitted leverage ratio after June 30, 2010 then reduces to and remains at 3.75x until maturity. The amendment includes a re-pricing of the Credit Agreement such that borrowings will bear interest at LIBOR plus a spread (including fees) that will vary between 2.50% and 4.50%, subject to Registrant's credit rating at the time of borrowing. Based on Registrant's current credit rating, the applicable spread would be 3.50%.
 
On April 24, 2009, Registrant released its first quarter 2009 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of this Current Report on Form 8-K as well as in our 2008 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: April 24, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Xerox Reports First-Quarter 2009 Earnings
NORWALK, Conn., April 24, 2009  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today first-quarter 2009 results that include earnings of 5 cents per share and $22 million in operating cash flow. Earnings are in line with the updated expectations Xerox announced last month and include a 2 cent impact from Xerox's share of Fuji Xerox's restructuring.
Total revenue of $3.6 billion was down 18 percent including a 6 point negative currency impact. The decline is largely due to the downstream impact of the economy with constraints in the overall business environment delaying purchasing decisions and the company's distributors holding lower inventory levels. Post-sale and financing revenue was down 14 percent or 8 percent in constant currency. Equipment sale revenue declined 30 percent or 26 percent in constant currency.
"During the first quarter, we saw an accelerated rate of decline in enterprise spending on technology, especially in Europe and developing markets," said , Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "Our roadmap in this recession is focused on cost and expense management, cash generation and continuing to strengthen our number-one revenue share position through and . We're making progress in all three of these areas and expect the flow-through from our actions to mitigate further economic challenges.
Anne Mulcahy
innovation
services
"During the year, we will continue to bring new technology to market that provides more affordable choices for our customers and launch more that help our customers cut their document costs by up to 30 percent," added Mulcahy. "As disciplined as we are in cost management, we're equally determined to invest in growth, ensuring that Xerox is in an advantaged position as the economy improves."
document services
Xerox decreased its total debt by $485 million in the first quarter and plans to reduce overall debt by more than $1 billion this year. First-quarter operating cash flow of $22 million is in line with last year. In addition, the company expects full-year operating cash flow of $1.3 billion.
The company reiterated that it will deliver $250 million in savings throughout this year from previous restructuring actions, as well as an additional $300 million in non-restructuring cost and expense reductions that will flow through to earnings and cash generation.
First-quarter selling, administrative and general (SAG) expenses were down year over year by $120 million and SAG as a percent of revenue was 28.2 percent. Gross margin was 38.9 percent in the first quarter, down about half a point from the prior year.
Xerox expects second-quarter 2009 earnings in the range of 10 cents to 12 cents per share, delivering full-year 2009 earnings of 50 cents to 55 cents per share.
 
Media Contacts:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, +1-203-849-2417,
christa.carone@xerox.com
This release discusses revenue growth using a measure noted as "Constant Currency" that excludes the effects of currency translation. Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures. This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Note:
For more information on Xerox, visit or . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , , or .
http://www.xerox.com
http://www.xerox.com/news
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.facebook.com/pages/So-what-DOES-Xerox-do/62701299858
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
http://www.xerox.com/thoughtleaders
Xerox, the Xerox wordmark and the sphere of connectivity design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
First quarter 2009 total revenues decreased 18% compared to the first quarter 2008. Worldwide economic weakness negatively impacted our major market segments and currency had a 6-percentage point negative impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
First quarter 2009 net income attributable to Xerox of $42 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, included a $22 million charge, or $0.02 per diluted share, for our share of Fuji Xerox's after-tax restructuring charge.
First quarter 2008 net loss attributable to Xerox of $244 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, included an after-tax charge of $491 million ($795 million pre-tax), or $0.54 per diluted share, associated with securities-related litigation matters.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income (Loss).
Note:
 
Production
Revenue
First quarter 2009 Production revenue of $1,053 million decreased 17%, including a 8-percentage point negative impact from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
First quarter 2009 Production profit of $40 million decreased $61 million from first quarter 2008 due to lower gross profit flow-through from the revenue decline partially offset by lower R,D&E and SAG spending.
Office
Revenue
First quarter 2009 Office revenue of $2,011 million decreased 18%, including a 5-percentage point negative impact from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
First quarter 2009 Office profit of $138 million decreased $127 million from first quarter 2008, due to lower gross profit flow-through from revenue decline partially offset by lower R,D&E and SAG spending.
Other
Revenue
First quarter 2009 Other revenue of $490 million decreased 21%, including a 6-percentage point negative impact from currency, driven by declines in revenue from paper and wide format systems. Paper comprised approximately half of the first quarter 2009 and 2008 Other segment revenue.
Operating Profit
First quarter 2009 Other loss of $90 million increased $50 million from first quarter 2008, reflecting lower revenue, interest income and equity income, as well as higher non-financing interest expense, partially offset by lower SAG expenses.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
First quarter 2009 total gross margin decreased 0.4-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2008 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of transaction currency of 1.0-percentage point partially offset by cost improvements.
Sales gross margin decreased 1.7-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2008 primarily due to the adverse impact of transaction currency on our inventory purchases of 1.9-percentage points, as well as lower supplies sales, partially offset by cost improvements.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin decreased 0.2-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2008. First quarter 2008 included a benefit of 1.0-percentage point from an adjustment related to capitalized costs associated with equipment on operating leases, primarily in the Office segment. 2009 cost improvements more than offset the impact of pricing.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("R,D&E")
 
R,D&E of $204 million in the first quarter 2009 was $17 million lower than the first quarter 2008. R&D of $175 million decreased $9 million, and sustaining engineering costs of $29 million decreased $8 million from first quarter 2008.
We invest in technological research and development, particularly in color, software and services. We believe that our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
 
SAG expenses of $1,004 million in the first quarter 2009 were $120 million lower than the first quarter 2008, including a $75 million benefit from currency. The SAG expense decrease reflected the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During first quarter 2009, we recorded a net restructuring reversal of $2 million as compared to a net charge of $3 million during the first quarter of 2008. The first quarter 2009 net reversal included approximately $10 million of severance related charges for new actions and $12 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior year initiatives.
The restructuring reserve balance as of March 31, 2009, for all programs was $253 million, of which approximately $234 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 55,600 at March 31, 2009 decreased approximately 1,500 from year-end 2008 and decreased 1,900 from first quarter 2008, primarily due to restructuring reductions partially offset by additional headcount related to GIS's acquisition of ComDoc, Inc.
Other Expenses, Net
 
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
First quarter 2009 non-financing interest expense of $61 million was $7 million higher than first quarter 2008, reflecting higher average debt balances partially offset by the benefit of lower interest rates.
Interest Income
First quarter 2009 interest income of $5 million decreased $7 million from first quarter 2008, reflecting lower average cash balances and lower interest rates.
Currency Losses, Net
First quarter 2009 net currency losses were $1 million higher than first quarter 2008. First quarter 2009 currency losses were primarily due to the significant movement in exchange rates among the U.S. Dollar, Euro and Yen during the quarter, as well as the increased cost of hedging, particularly in developing markets. First quarter 2008 currency losses of $19 million were primarily due to significant and rapid weakening of the U.S. Dollar and Euro as compared to the Yen.
Legal Matters
First quarter 2008 charges of $795 million reflected provisions for the $670 million settlement of Carlson v. Xerox Corporation ("Carlson") and other securities-related litigation matters, net of expected insurance recoveries. On January 14, 2009, the United States Court for the District of Connecticut entered a Final Order and Judgment approving the Carlson settlement.
Income Taxes
 
The first quarter 2009 effective tax rate was 24.4% as compared to 48.3% in the first quarter 2008. The 2009 tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily reflecting the benefit to taxes from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, the resolution and re-measurement of certain unrecognized tax positions, as well as the utilization of foreign tax credits.
The 2008 tax rate included a $304 million tax benefit associated with the $795 million net provision for securities-related litigation matters. Excluding the impact of the litigation charge, the adjusted effective tax rate was 20.3%
4
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the net tax benefits from the resolution and re-measurement of certain unrecognized tax positions as well as the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
 
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remaining quarters of 2009 will approximate 28% excluding the effects of any future discrete events.
 
Equity in Net (Loss) Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net loss of unconsolidated affiliates of $10 million decreased $38 million compared to first quarter 2008, reflecting our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's net loss reflecting worldwide economic weakness. First quarter 2009 included charges of $22 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring. First quarter 2008 included after-tax restructuring charges of $10 million primarily related to pension settlements.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $22 million in the first quarter 2009. The $30 million decrease in cash from first quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $207 million in the first quarter 2009. The $142 million decrease in cash from first quarter 2008 was primarily due to GIS's acquisition of ComDoc, Inc.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $482 million in the first quarter 2009. The $232 million decrease in cash from first quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
The reduction of $344 million in Total finance assets, net includes unfavorable currency of $178 million.
 
 
The following summarizes our debt as of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008:
 
Sale of Accounts Receivables
During the first quarter 2009 we sold $237 million of accounts receivable without recourse, as compared to $246 million in the fourth quarter 2008. Fees associated with these sales were approximately $2 million in each period. $228 million of receivables sold remained uncollected as of March 31, 2009.
Accounting Change
On January 1, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 160 "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51" ("FAS 160"). FAS 160 requires that minority interests be renamed noncontrolling interests and be presented as a separate component of equity. In addition the Company must report a consolidated net income (loss) measure that includes the amount attributable to such noncontrolling interests for all periods presented.
 
Subsequent Event
We have amended our $2 billion Credit Agreement with affiliates of Citibank, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and a group of lenders. The amendment increases the permitted leverage ratio (debt/consolidated EBITDA) to 4.25x through June 30, 2010. The permitted leverage ratio after June 30, 2010 then reduces to and remains at 3.75x until maturity. The amendment includes a re-pricing of the Credit Agreement such that borrowings will bear interest at LIBOR plus a spread (including fees) that will vary between 2.50% and 4.50%, subject to our credit rating at the time of borrowing. Based on our current credit rating, the applicable spread would be 3.50%.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2009 first quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at
 
actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Adjusted Effective Tax Rate
The effective tax rate for the first quarter 2008 is discussed in this presentation using a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the effect of charges associated with securities-related litigation matters. Management believes that it is helpful to exclude this effect to better understand, analyze and compare the prior period's income tax expense and effective tax rate to the current period amounts given the discrete nature and size of this item in the prior period.
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 


