FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20091022064830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 22, 2009, Registrant released its third quarter 2009 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that the future business operations of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS") will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the ACS transaction will not be met; the risk that disruptions from the ACS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009, as well as in our 2008 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: October 22, 2009
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
Xerox Reports Third-Quarter 2009 Earnings of 14 Cents per Share
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., Oct. 22, 2009  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today third-quarter 2009 results that include earnings per share of 14 cents and $610 million in operating cash flow.
"Our third-quarter performance reflects our continued disciplined approach to managing cash and reducing costs," said , Xerox chief executive officer. "As a result, we exceeded our expectations for earnings and operating cash flow, and are benefiting from operational improvements that are mitigating the economic challenges."
Ursula M. Burns
The company reported third-quarter total revenue of $3.7 billion, down 16 percent from third-quarter 2008 including a 2 point negative impact from currency. Post-sale and financing revenue was down 11 percent, or 9 percent in constant currency. Equipment sale revenue declined 29 percent, or 28 percent in constant currency.
"Just as we are closely managing costs, our customers are doing the same and we have not seen a meaningful shift towards increased spending on technology," she added. "For many of our business clients  small to large  there remains a hesitancy to invest until more economic factors show signs of steady improvement. We expect this trend will continue to put pressure on revenue for the balance of the year.
"At the same time, we're winning new business from clients who want to reduce their cost base through our industry-leading ," said Burns. "Scaling our services business has long been a strategic focus. The growth opportunity is significant, customers are demanding more service-related value, and the multi-year contracts provide profitable recurring revenue. These factors give us confidence in the strategic and financial rationale for acquiring . With this acquisition and the benefits of our existing annuity-based business, we'll deliver significant revenue growth, cash and earnings expansion."
managed print services
Affiliated Computer Services
Third-quarter operating cash flow was $610 million. Through the third quarter, the company has generated $1.2 billion in operating cash flow, and, as a result, has increased its expectation for the full year to $1.7 billion. Xerox ended the third quarter with a cash balance of $1.2 billion. Total debt was down $938 million through the first three quarters, and the company is on track to reduce total debt by more than $1 billion this year.
Gross margin was 39.8 percent in the third quarter, an increase of over half a point from the prior year. Third-quarter selling, administrative and general expenses were down year over year by $131 million and SAG as a percent of revenue was 27.4 percent.
Xerox expects fourth-quarter 2009 earnings per share in the range of 20 cents to 22 cents, excluding costs related to the acquisition of ACS. The company has increased its full-year earnings expectations to 55 cents to 57 cents per share, which excludes fourth-quarter ACS acquisition costs. Prior guidance for full-year 2009 was 50 cents to 55 cents per share.
 
Media Contact:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
This release discusses revenue growth using a measure noted as "Constant Currency" that excludes the effects of currency translation. Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures. In addition, fourth-quarter and full-year 2009 EPS has been provided without including fourth-quarter ACS acquisition related costs, which cannot be specifically quantified at this time.
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that the future business operations of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS") will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the ACS transaction will not be met; the risk that disruptions from the ACS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009 and our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Xerox and ACS urge investors and security holders to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction when it becomes available because it will contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about Xerox and ACS, without charge, at the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) Internet site (). Copies of the joint proxy statement/prospectus and the filings with the SEC that will be incorporated by
http://www.sec.gov
reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, when available, without charge, from Xerox's website, , under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings". You may also obtain these documents, without charge, from ACS's website, , under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings". Information regarding participants or persons who may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction is contained in Xerox's proxy statement for its most recent annual meeting and ACS's proxy statement for its most recent annual meeting, both as filed with the SEC.
http://www.xerox.com
http://www.acs-inc.com
For more information on Xerox, visit or . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , , or .
http://www.xerox.com
http://www.xerox.com/news
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.facebook.com/xeroxcorp
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
http://www.xerox.com/thoughtleaders
Xerox, and the sphere of connectivity design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
(
1)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
(
1)
 
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
Third quarter 2009 total revenues decreased 16% compared to the third quarter 2008. Worldwide economic weakness continues to negatively impact our major market segments, and currency had a 2-percentage point negative impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
Third quarter 2009 net income attributable to Xerox of $123 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, included a charge of $9 million or $0.01 per diluted share for our share of Fuji Xerox's after-tax restructuring and an $8 million after-tax ($9 million pre-tax) charge, or $0.01 per diluted share related to costs associated with the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. announced in September.
Third quarter 2008 net income of $258 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, included a benefit of $41 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, from the settlement of certain previously unrecognized tax benefits and an after-tax net restructuring charge of $9 million ($14 million pre-tax), or $0.01 per diluted share.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income.
Note:
 
Production
Revenue
Third quarter 2009 Production revenue of $1,092 million decreased 14%, including a 3-percentage point negative impact from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Third quarter 2009 Production profit of $59 million decreased $24 million from third quarter 2008, due to lower gross profit flow-through from revenue declines partially offset by lower RD&E and SAG as a result of continued cost actions.
Office
Revenue
Third quarter 2009 Office revenue of $2,070 million decreased 15%, including a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Third quarter 2009 Office profit of $201 million decreased $59 million from third quarter 2008, as revenue declines were partially offset by cost savings resulting in improved gross margin and lower RD&E and SAG.
Other
Revenue
Third quarter 2009 Other revenue of $513 million decreased 21%, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency, primarily driven by declines in revenue from paper, wide format and licensing arrangements. Paper comprised approximately half of the third quarter 2009 and 2008 Other segment revenue.
Operating Profit
Third quarter 2009 Other loss of $71 million increased $25 million from third quarter 2008, reflecting lower income from licensing arrangements, wide format and equity income.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
Third quarter 2009 total gross margin increased 0.6-percentage points compared to the third quarter 2008, driven by cost improvements enabled by restructuring and cost actions, as well as the revenue declines from lower margin channels which were only partially offset by the 0.8-percentage point unfavorable impact of transaction currency. Third quarter 2009 results included a benefit of 0.3-percentage points related to a favorable property tax adjustment in North America, and third quarter 2008 results included a benefit of 0.3-percentage points from a favorable adjustment related to European product disposal costs.
Sales gross margin decreased 0.8-percentage points compared to the third quarter 2008, as the 1.7-percentage point adverse impact of transaction currency on our inventory purchases and price declines impact of 1.9-percentage points were partially offset by the positive mix of revenues and cost improvements. Third quarter 2008 results included a favorable adjustment related to European product disposal costs.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin increased 1.1-percentage points compared to the third quarter 2008 primarily due to restructuring savings and other cost actions as well as a favorable property tax adjustment in North America. These improvements more than offset approximately 0.7-percentage point impact of pricing declines.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
 
RD&E of $209 million in the third quarter 2009 was $19 million lower than the third quarter 2008, reflecting our restructuring and cost actions which consolidated the Production and Office development and engineering infrastructure. R&D of $175 million decreased $21 million, and sustaining engineering costs of $34 million increased $2 million from third quarter 2008.
We invest in technological research and development, particularly in color, software and services. We believe that our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
 
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,007 million in the third quarter 2009 were $131 million lower than the third quarter 2008, including a $30 million benefit from currency. The SAG expense decrease reflected the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the third quarter 2009, we recorded a net restructuring credit of $2 million. The net credit reflected $7 million of severance-related charges for new actions and $9 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior year initiatives. During the third quarter 2008, we recorded restructuring charges of $14 million predominately in the U.S. related to headcount reductions of approximately 300.
The restructuring reserve balance as of September 30, 2009, for all programs was $116 million, of which approximately $103 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 54,100 at September 30, 2009 decreased approximately 3,000 from year-end 2008 and 3,300 from third quarter 2008, primarily due to restructuring reductions partially offset by additional headcount related to GIS's acquisition of ComDoc, Inc.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Third quarter 2009 non-financing interest expense of $64 million was $7 million lower than third quarter 2008, driven by the benefit of lower interest rates that more than offset the impact of higher average debt balances.
Interest Income
Third quarter interest income of $4 million decreased $4 million, reflecting lower average cash balances and lower interest rates.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
The gains on sales of businesses and assets of $6 million for the third quarter 2009 relates to the sale of Latin American facilities.
Acquisition Related Costs
Consistent with the new accounting guidance with respect to business combinations, acquisition related costs of approximately $9 million were incurred and expensed during the third quarter 2009 in connection with our previously announced pending acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.
All Other Expenses, Net
Third quarter 2009 all other expenses net increased $7 million from third quarter 2008 primarily driven by fees associated with the sale of receivables and an increase in interest expense on Brazil tax and labor contingencies.
Income Taxes
 
 
The third quarter 2009 effective tax rate was 27.8%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the net tax benefits from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
The third quarter 2008 effective tax rate was 6.1% and included a 17.3% benefit from the settlement of certain previously unrecognized tax benefits and the tax effect of the third quarter restructuring charges. Excluding these items, the third quarter 2008 adjusted effective tax rate was 23.4%
4
. These rates were lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily reflecting the benefit to taxes from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and the utilization of foreign tax credits.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable.
We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 will approximate 28%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $15 million decreased $20 million compared to third quarter 2008, which reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's lower net income which was impacted by the worldwide economic weakness. Third quarter 2009 included charges of $9 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox's after-tax restructuring charges.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $610 million in the third quarter 2009. The $350 million increase in cash from third quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $31 million in the third quarter 2009. The $325 million increase in cash from third quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $654 million in the third quarter 2009. The $807 million decrease in cash from third quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
The reduction of $299 million in Total finance assets, net includes favorable currency of $238 million.
 
The following summarizes our debt as of September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008:
 
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation, therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total Finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
 
Sale of Accounts Receivables
During the third quarter 2009, we sold $349 million of accounts receivables without recourse, as compared to $373 million in the second quarter 2009 and $146 million in the third quarter 2008. Fees associated with these sales were approximately $3 million, $3 million and $1 million, respectively. $335 million of receivables sold to date remained uncollected by the third party purchasers as of September 30, 2009. We do not have any current or future liability for these non-recourse sales.
Accounting Change
On January 1, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 160 "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51", (Accounting Standards Codification
TM
Topic 810-10-65). This guidance requires that minority interests be renamed noncontrolling interests and be presented as a separate component of equity. In addition the Company must report a consolidated net income (loss) measure that includes the amount attributable to such noncontrolling interests for all periods presented.
Subsequent Events
In October 2009, we completed a successful syndication of a $3.0 billion interim Bridge Loan Facility with commitments from several banks that may be used in the event the ACS acquisition closes prior to obtaining permanent financing in the capital markets. The Bridge Loan Facility will mature on the first anniversary of the closing date of the ACS acquisition, subject to two extensions: 1) for up to $1.5 billion to the second anniversary of the closing date, and 2) for up to $750 million to the third anniversary of the closing date.
 
In connection with entering into the Bridge Loan Facility, we amended our $2 billion Credit Facility. The amendment extended the permitted leverage ratio of 4.25x through September 30, 2010, which will change to 4.00x through December 31, 2010, and to 3.75x thereafter. The amendment also included the following changes:
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that the future business operations of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS") will not be successful; the risk that customer retention and revenue expansion goals for the ACS transaction will not be met; the risk that disruptions from the ACS transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees and suppliers; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009 and our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2009 second quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Adjusted Effective Tax Rate
The effective tax rate for the third quarter 2008 is discussed in this release using a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the benefit to taxes relating to the settlement of certain previously unrecognized tax benefits and the effect of charges associated with restructuring. Management believes that it is helpful to exclude these effects to better understand and analyze the current period's effective tax rate given the discrete nature of these items in the period.
 
 
APPENDIX I
Xerox Corporation
Earnings per Common Share
 
 
APPENDIX II
Xerox Corporation
Reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-Tax Income
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 


