FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20090123064738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 23, 2009, Registrant released its fourth quarter 2008 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2007 acquisition of Global Imaging Systems, Inc.; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including actions with respect to the fourth quarter 2008 $240 million after-tax net restructuring and asset impairment charge; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set fourth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 and our 2007 Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: January 23, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2008 Results
NORWALK, Conn., Jan. 23, 2009  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today fourth-quarter 2008 financial performance that, including previously disclosed restructuring charges, resulted in break-even earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share of 30 cents. Adjustments include a restructuring charge of 27 cents per share as well as an equipment write-off of 3 cents per share.
The company's full-year 2008 net income was $230 million, including a previously announced litigation charge. Excluding charges, adjusted net income was $985 million for the year. Total revenue was $17.6 billion, a 2 percent increase from full year 2007. The company generated $939 million of operating cash flow. Adjusted core cash flow for the year was $1.7 billion.
"In the fourth quarter, the continued weakening economy and rapid shift in exchange rates put pressure on the business," said Anne Mulcahy, chairman and chief executive officer. "Despite this challenging marketplace, we delivered $265 million in adjusted net income for the quarter and $985 million for the year."
"We continue to prioritize cash and productivity to give us flexibility in this uncertain environment," she added. "Our fourth-quarter restructuring will deliver $200 million in savings this year. And, last year we generated $1.7 billion in adjusted cash from core operations. We believe our strong balance sheet and disciplined approach to cost reductions strengthen our ability to effectively manage through these tough economic times."
In the fourth quarter, Xerox generated $1 billion in adjusted cash from core operations, excluding net litigation payments of $615 million. The company closed the year with $1.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents.
Total revenue of $4.4 billion declined 10 percent in the quarter, including a 5 point negative impact from currency. Post-sale and financing revenue was down 8 percent or 3 percent in constant currency, largely due to distributors holding lower inventory levels. Equipment sale revenue declined 15 percent or 11 percent in constant currency, reflecting weakened economic conditions around the world.
Revenue from the company's developing markets, which delivered 17 percent revenue growth through the third quarter of 2008, was down 14 percent in the fourth quarter largely due to the decline in developing markets exchange rates and the rapid weakening of Russian and eastern European economies.
Fourth-quarter revenue from was down 6 percent or flat in constant currency. Color pages were up 23 percent and now represent 18 percent of total pages printed on Xerox technology. Color results exclude the benefit from Global Imaging Systems.
color
Xerox help businesses simplify work processes, manage office technology and in-house print shops, digitize paper files, create digital archives and much more. During 2008, generated $3.5 billion in annuity revenue, a 3 percent increase over 2007.
services
Xerox Global Services
"We remain confident that the value we bring to our customers can help them through this economy. Much of what we do is aimed squarely at helping our customers reduce costs and operate more efficiently and effectively. Our services business continues to grow and we're prioritizing investments to build on this momentum in 2009," added Mulcahy. "Discussions with customers about saving up to 30 percent on their document costs get attention. It's a powerful value proposition in any economy."
Xerox's business provides commercial printers and document-intensive industries with high-speed and services that enable on-demand, personalized printing. The weakening economy resulted in a 13 percent decline in total production revenue, including a 7 point negative impact from currency. Installs of production black-and-white systems declined 11 percent. Installs of production color devices were up 4 percent in the quarter driven by strong demand for the company's new production systems, the and the , both of which were available worldwide beginning in September.
production
digital printing
Xerox iGen4Press
Xerox 700 Digital Color Press
In Xerox's business, which provides the industry's broadest portfolio of printers, copiers, and multifunction systems through a global network of sales channels, the number of installs of systems was up 9 percent in the fourth quarter. Installs of the company's devices decreased 18 percent. Total office revenue was down 9 percent in the fourth quarter including a 4 point negative impact from currency.
office
color multifunction
black-and-white multifunction
Gross margin was 37.9 percent. Excluding the equipment write-off, adjusted gross margin was 38.8 percent, down 1.7 points from the fourth quarter of 2007. This decline was almost entirely due to increased product costs driven by the rapid strengthening of the Yen. Selling, administrative and general expenses were 25.2 percent of revenue, up about 1 point from fourth-quarter 2007.
Xerox expects first-quarter 2009 earnings in the range of 16 cents to 20 cents per share.
Media Contacts:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
Christa Carone, Xerox Corporation, +1-203-849-2417,
christa.carone@xerox.com
This release refers to several non-GAAP financial measures described as "adjusted" - earnings per share, net income, gross margin and cash from core operations - that exclude the effects of certain fourth quarter and full year items. Additionally, it discusses revenue growth using a measure noted as "Constant Currency" that excludes the effects of currency translation. Refer to the "Non-GAAP
Note:
Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2007 acquisition of Global Imaging Systems, Inc; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including actions with respect to the fourth quarter 2008 $240 million after-tax net restructuring and asset impairment charge; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008, September 30, 2008 and our 2007 Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
For more information on Xerox, visit or . For open commentary and industry perspectives, visit or .
http://www.xerox.com
http://www.xerox.com/news
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
Xerox
, iGen4
TM
, the Xerox wordmark and the spherical connection symbol are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
Fourth quarter 2008 total revenues declined 10% compared to the fourth quarter 2007. Currency had a 5-percentage point negative impact on total revenues in the quarter and worldwide economic weakness negatively impacted our major market segments. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
Fourth quarter 2008 net income of $1 million, or zero earnings per diluted share, included after-tax net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $240 million ($349 million pre-tax), or $0.27 per diluted share, and an equipment write-off of $24 million ($39 million pre-tax) or $0.03 per diluted share.
Fourth quarter 2007 net income was $382 million, or $0.41 per diluted share.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income.
In 2008 we revised our segment reporting to integrate Developing Markets Operations (DMO) into the Production, Office and Other segments. DMO is a geographic region that has matured to a level where we now manage it based on the basis of products sold, consistent with our North American and European geographic regions. Refer to Appendix III for DMO's results.
Note:
 
Production
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2008 Production revenue of $1,357 million decreased 13%, including a 7-percentage point negative impact from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
 
Fourth quarter 2008 Production profit of $123 million decreased $83 million from fourth quarter 2007 as lower revenue and the adverse transaction currency impact on cost resulted in lower gross profit partially offset by lower SAG expenses.
Office
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2008 Office revenue of $2,409 million decreased 9%, including a 4-percentage point negative impact from currency partially offset by the benefits from our expansion in the SMB market. Revenue for the fourth quarter reflects:
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Fourth quarter 2008 Office profit of $258 million decreased $72 million from fourth quarter 2007, as lower revenue and the adverse transaction currency impact on cost resulted in lower gross profit partially offset by lower SAG expenses.
Other
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2008 Other revenue of $604 million decreased 10%, including a 4-percentage point negative impact from currency, driven by declines in revenue from paper and wide format systems. Paper comprised approximately half of the fourth quarter 2008 Other segment revenue.
Operating Profit
Fourth quarter 2008 Other loss of $63 million increased $46 million from fourth quarter 2007, due to lower gross profit from lower revenue, higher net interest expense and lower equity income, partially offset by lower SAG expenses.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
Fourth quarter 2008 total gross margin was 37.9%. Excluding the equipment write-off, total gross margin of 38.8%
4
was 1.7-percentage points lower than the fourth quarter 2007 primarily due to the significant strengthening of the Yen versus the U.S. dollar and Euro.
The $39 million equipment write-off was the result of a change in strategy reflecting our decision to discontinue the remanufacture of returned Office
5
inventory following an assessment of the current and expected market for this product line as well as the impact of other product lines and changes in technology.
Sales gross margin, excluding the equipment write-off
4
, decreased 2.9-percentage points compared to the fourth quarter 2007 primarily due to the adverse impact of the strengthened Yen on our inventory purchases, as well as lower supplies sales and the 1.6-percentage point impact of price declines partially offset by cost improvements.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin decreased 0.7-percentage points compared to the fourth quarter 2007 driven by the impact from unfavorable transaction currency. Price declines and mix of approximately 1.5-percentage points was offset by cost improvements.
 
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("R,D&E")
 
R,D&E of $212 million in the fourth quarter 2008 was $26 million lower than the fourth quarter 2007. R&D of $180 million decreased $20 million, and sustaining engineering costs of $32 million decreased $6 million from fourth quarter 2007.
 
We invest in technological development, particularly in color, and believe our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,102 million in the fourth quarter 2008 were $84 million lower than the fourth quarter 2007, including a $68 million positive impact from currency. The SAG expense decrease reflected the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the fourth quarter 2008, we recorded $349 million of net restructuring and asset impairment charges. The charges include $296 million for restructuring actions primarily for severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 3,400. The charges also include $53 million of asset impairments related to decisions regarding the rationalization of our worldwide operating locations. The restructuring actions apply equally to both North America and Europe, with about half focused on SAG expense reductions, a third on gross margin improvements and the remainder focused on the optimization of R,D&E investments. We expect to realize savings in 2009 of approximately $200 million as a result of the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring.
The restructuring reserve balance as of December 31, 2008 for all programs was $352 million, of which approximately $325 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 57,100 at December 31, 2008 has decreased approximately 300 from both year-end 2007 and third quarter 2008, primarily due to restructuring.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Fourth quarter 2008 non-financing interest expense of $72 million was $12 million higher than fourth quarter 2007 due to higher average debt balances.
Interest Income
Fourth quarter 2008 interest income of $6 million decreased $6 million, reflecting lower average cash balances.
Currency Losses, Net
Fourth quarter 2008 net currency losses of $4 million, were $10 million lower than fourth quarter 2007. The fourth quarter 2008 reflects net remeasurement losses associated with our unhedged foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities as well as the cost of hedging. Fourth quarter 2007 currency losses of $14 million primarily reflected the mark-to-market of derivative contracts which were economically hedging anticipated foreign currency transactions.
Legal Matters
Litigation matters of $(21) million reflects reductions of approximately $(75) million to the previously established provision for securities litigation as a result of recent favorable developments in these matters. This was partially offset by additional reserves of approximately $55 million for probable losses on other litigation matters, including $36 million for the previously disclosed Brazilian labor-related litigation.
Income Taxes
 
 
The fourth quarter 2008 effective tax rate was 74.7% and included a $124 million benefit from the tax effect of the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring and asset impairment charges as well as the equipment write-off. Excluding these items, the adjusted effective tax rate was 21.0%
6
as compared to 26.6% in the fourth quarter 2007. The 2008 tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily reflecting the benefit to taxes from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and the utilization of foreign tax credits as well as a tax law change. The 2007 tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily reflecting the benefit to taxes from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and the utilization of foreign tax credits.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions, and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for 2009 will approximate 28%, excluding the effects of any future discrete events.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $21 million decreased $16 million compared to fourth quarter 2007, reflecting our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's lower net income as impacted by the worldwide economic weakness.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $185 million in the fourth quarter 2008. The $825 million decrease in cash from fourth quarter 2007 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash provided by investing activities was $265 million in the fourth quarter 2008. The $258 million increase in cash from fourth quarter 2007 was primarily due to the $263 million increase from escrow and other restricted investments. Fourth quarter 2008 reflects $670 million of proceeds from escrow for the settlement of the previously disclosed litigation net of $259 million of escrow funding during the quarter. We previously escrowed $411 million in the second and third quarters of 2008. Fourth quarter 2007 reflects the release of restricted funds as a result of the run-off of our secured borrowing programs.
Carlson
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $60 million in the fourth quarter 2008. The $720 million increase in cash from fourth quarter 2007 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
The reduction of $763 million in Total Finance Assets includes unfavorable currency of $473 million.
Accounts Receivable Sales Arrangement
During the fourth quarter 2008 we sold $246 million of accounts receivables, as compared to $146 million in the third quarter 2008, under accounts receivables sales arrangements in Europe.
Subsequent Events
On January 15, 2009, we repaid in-full at maturity, our outstanding U.S. dollar and Euro-denominated 9.75% senior notes. The total repayment of approximately $900 million was made using cash on hand and the proceeds of a $400 million borrowing under our Credit Facility. In
 
addition, through January 23, 2009, we repaid other debt that was outstanding as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, our year-end debt balance adjusted for these net debt repayments through January 23, 2009 was approximately $7.7 billion and our borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility is currently $1.4 billion.
On January 14, 2009, the United States Court for the District of Connecticut entered a Final Order and Judgment approving the previously disclosed settlement in the litigation.
Carlson
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2007 acquisition of Global Imaging Systems, Inc; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including actions with respect to the fourth quarter 2008 $240 million after-tax net restructuring and asset impairment charge; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008, September 30, 2008 and our 2007 Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, we have discussed the following non-GAAP measures:
1. : To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust diluted earnings per share and net income for the fourth quarter and full year 2008 to exclude the effect of: (1) the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring and asset impairment charges (fourth quarter and full year); (2) the fourth quarter 2008 equipment write-off charge (fourth quarter and full year); and (3) the first quarter 2008 securities-related litigation provision (full year). Management believes that excluding the effects of these items enables investors to better understand and analyze the current periods' results and provides a better measure of comparability given the discrete nature of these charges. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial
Adjusted Net Income and EPS
 
measure and the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the following reconciliation table.
2. : To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust cash flows to exclude the effect of investments made in finance receivables and on-lease equipment. These investments are viewed as income-producing assets and are important to the growth of our business. Management believes that excluding the effect of investments made in finance receivables and on-lease equipment provides investors an additional perspective on cash flow from operating activities. To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust ""; "" to exclude the fourth quarter 2008 net payments made for the securities-related litigation matters. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure and the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the following reconciliation table.
Cash from Core Operations; Core Cash Flow
Cash from Core Operations
Core Cash Flow
3. : To better understand trends in our business, we believe it is helpful to adjust total gross margin and sales gross margin for the fourth quarter 2008 to exclude the effect of charges associated with an equipment write-off. Management believes that excluding the effect of this charge will enable investors to better understand and analyze the current periods' results and provide a better basis for assessing future trends in gross margins because of the discrete nature of the equipment write-off charge. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure and the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the following reconciliation table.
Adjusted Total Gross Margin; Adjusted Sales Gross Margin
4. : To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust the effective tax rate for the fourth quarter 2008 to exclude: (1) the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring and asset impairment charges; and (2) the fourth quarter equipment write-off charge. Management believes that excluding the tax effects of these items will enable investors to better understand and analyze the current periods' effective tax rate given the discrete nature of these items in the respective period. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure and the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the following reconciliation table.
Adjusted Effective Tax Rate
5. : To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Constant Currency
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period results against the corresponding prior period results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP
 
financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2008 fourth quarter presentation slides available at www.xerox.com/investor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,992 (in thousands) common shares issuable with respect to convertible securities were not included in the computation of diluted EPS for the three months and the year ended December 31, 2008 because to do so would have been anti-dilutive.
 
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 
Effective January 1, 2008, we revised our segment reporting to integrate DMO into the Production, Office and Other segments.
 
 


