FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20091123082212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 23, 2009, Xerox Corporation ("Xerox") and Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS") issued a joint press release, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K. A copy of the Stipulation dated November 20, 2009 referenced in the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
Claims Resolved In Texas Lawsuit Related to Xerox's Planned Acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services
NORWALK, Conn., and DALLAS, Nov. 23, 2009  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) and Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (NYSE: ACS) announced today that they have resolved claims made in a consolidated action filed by ACS shareholders in Dallas County, Texas, related to Xerox's proposed acquisition of ACS. In a stipulation agreed to by the parties, the plaintiffs have withdrawn their motion for a temporary and/or permanent injunction.
The parties agreed that if ACS's board of directors receives a superior proposal, and, as a result, withdraws its recommendation of the Xerox acquisition, Xerox will not enforce requirements in its voting agreement with ACS Chairman Darwin Deason that obligate Mr. Deason to vote any of his shares of ACS common stock in favor of the Xerox acquisition. In addition, Xerox, will not enforce any requirements of the Merger Agreement that compel ACS to hold the ACS stockholders' meeting to vote on the Xerox transaction and if requested by ACS, Xerox will terminate the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms.
The plaintiffs have agreed to stay prosecution of the Texas action (, No. CC-09-07377-C). A class action by ACS stockholders related to Xerox's acquisition of ACS remains pending in the Delaware Court of Chancery ().
City of St. Clair Shores Police and Fire Retirement System, et al. v. ACS, et al.
In re ACS Shareholder Litigation, Consolidated C.A. No. 4940-VCP
About Affiliated Computer Services
Headquartered in Dallas, ACS's 76,000 professionals support thousands of multinational corporations and government agencies in over 100 countries from 500 locations. It offers business process outsourcing support in areas that include finance, human resources, information technology, transaction processing, and customer care. http://www.acs-inc.com
About Xerox
Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox Corporation's 54,000 people represent the world's leading document management, technology and services enterprise, providing the industry's broadest portfolio of color and black-and-white document processing systems and related supplies, as well as document management consulting and outsourcing services. http://www.xerox.com
 
Media Contacts:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
Kevin Lightfoot, ACS, +1-214-841-8191, Kevin.Lightfoot@acs-inc.com
For more information on Xerox, visit http://www.xerox.com or http://www.xerox.com/news.
Note:
For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp,
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents, http://www.facebook.com/pages/So-what-DOES-Xerox-do/62701299858,
http://www.xerox.com/blogs, http://www.xerox.com/podcasts or http://www.xerox.com/thoughtleaders.
Xerox and the sphere of connectivity design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
Note: Information about the Transaction
The proposed merger transaction involving Xerox and ACS will be submitted to the respective stockholders of Xerox and ACS for their consideration. In connection with the proposed merger, Xerox filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that included a preliminary joint proxy statement of Xerox and ACS that also constitutes a preliminary prospectus of Xerox and each of the companies may be filing with the SEC other documents regarding the proposed transaction. Xerox will mail the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to its stockholders. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about Xerox and ACS, without charge, at the SEC's Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). Copies of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and the filings with the SEC that will be incorporated by reference in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, when available, without charge, from Xerox's website, www.xerox.com, under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings". You may also obtain these documents, without charge, from ACS's website, www.acs-inc.com, under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings".
Xerox and ACS urge investors and security holders to read the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction before making any voting or investment decision when it becomes available because it will contain important information.
Xerox, ACS and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the respective stockholders of Xerox and ACS in favor of
 
Page 2
 
the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed participants in the solicitation of the respective stockholders of Xerox and ACS in connection with the proposed merger are set forth in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC. You can find information about Xerox's executive officers and directors in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 6, 2009. You can find information about ACS's executive officers and directors in its annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on August 27, 2009. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Xerox and ACS websites using the contact information above.
 
Page 3

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
City of St. Clair Shores Police and Fire Retirement System, Mark Levy, Steward Large Cap Enhanced Index Fund, Edward Delgato, York County Employees Retirement Board, John Rahe and International Union of Operating Engineers Local 825 Pension Fund (collectively, the "Texas Plaintiffs"), who are the plaintiffs in the action captioned , No. CC-09-07377-C, in the County Court at Law No. 3, Dallas County, Texas and all actions consolidated therewith (the "Texas Action"), and New Orleans Employees' Retirement System, Sheet Metal Workers Local 28, Federated Kaufman Fund, Federated Kaufman Growth Fund, Federated Kaufman Fund II and Federated Max-Cap Index Fund (collectively, the "Delaware Plaintiffs", and together with the Texas Plaintiffs, the "Plaintiffs"), who are the plaintiffs and class representatives in the action captioned , C.A. No. 4940-VCP, in the
City of St. Clair Shores Police and Fire Retirement System v. Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.
In re ACS Shareholders Litigation
Chancery Court of the State of Delaware and all actions consolidated therewith (the "Delaware Action", and together with the Texas Action, the "Actions"), and Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS"), Darwin Deason, Lynn R. Blodgett, Robert A. Druskin, Kurt R. Krauss, Ted B. Miller, Paul E. Sullivan, Frank Varasano, Boulder Acquisition Corp. and Xerox Corporation (collectively, "Defendants") hereby stipulate and agree as follows:
1. Capitalized terms used in this Stipulation have the same meanings ascribed to those terms in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 27, 2009, among Xerox Corporation, Boulder Acquisition Corp. and Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (the "Merger Agreement"), and the Voting Agreement by and between Xerox Corporation and Darwin Deason, dated as of September 27, 2009 (the "Voting Agreement").
2. Xerox Corporation undertakes that:
(i) if the ACS Board of Directors determines that ACS has received a Superior Proposal, Xerox Corporation will not enforce any provision of the Voting Agreement, including, without limitation,  2.1, that obliges Darwin Deason to vote any of the Covered Shares (a) in favor of the Merger or (b) against such Superior Proposal;
(ii) it will release Darwin Deason from the proxy granted under  2.3 of the Voting Agreement in the event that the ACS Board of Directors determines that ACS has received a Superior Proposal;
(iii) it will not enforce any provision of the Merger Agreement, including, without limitation,  4.02(d), that would have the effect of compelling ACS or its
 
Board of Directors to hold the Company Stockholders' Meeting if the ACS Board of Directors (a) determines that ACS has received a Superior Proposal, and (b) makes a Company Adverse Recommendation Change as a result thereof; and
(iv) if (a) the ACS Board of Directors determines that ACS has received a Superior Proposal, and (b) a Company Adverse Recommendation Change occurs as a result thereof, then, at the request of the ACS Board of Directors, Xerox Corporation shall terminate the Merger Agreement pursuant to  7.01(f)(i) of the Merger Agreement.
3. The Texas Plaintiffs (a) contemporaneously with the execution of this Stipulation, have withdrawn their Motion for a Temporary and/or Permanent Injunction with prejudice, and (b) will stay prosecution of the Texas Action until agreed otherwise by the Defendants and ordered by the Court. All Plaintiffs agree that any further prosecution of the Actions, or any claims that could have been brought in the Actions, will proceed in the Delaware Action. Counsel for the Texas Plaintiffs may appear in the Delaware Action for that purpose.
4. The Plaintiffs in the Actions will not seek to enjoin or otherwise prevent the enforcement of the Challenged Provisions, as defined in the Stipulation and Order on Expedited Discovery and Expedited Proceedings on Plaintiff's Motion for Temporary and/or Permanent Injunction, entered in the Texas Action on October 29, 2009. This Stipulation shall be without prejudice to any other right, remedy or defense of the parties in the Actions.
 
5. Except as explicitly set forth herein, neither Xerox Corporation nor ACS shall be deemed to make any undertaking with respect to the Merger Agreement or the Voting Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated: November 20, 2009
 


