FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20101208161726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Election of Directors
(d) Election of Directors
On December 8, 2010, Registrant's Board of Directors elected Robert J. Keegan to serve on Registrant's Board of Directors effective immediately. Mr. Keegan will be appointed to the Compensation Committee. A copy of the Press Release relating to this announcement is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: December 8, 2010
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Robert Keegan Elected to Xerox Board of Directors
NORWALK, Conn., Dec. 8, 2010  (NYSE: XRX) board of directors today elected to the board , former chairman, president and chief executive officer of The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company.
Xerox Corporation's
Robert J. Keegan
"Bob brings to the Xerox board a proven track record of business success. His leadership experience, respected financial and business acumen and global expertise will serve Xerox and our shareholders well, and will complement the strong talent of our board of directors," said Xerox Chairman and CEO .
Ursula Burns
Keegan, 63, served as Goodyear's president and chief executive officer from January 2003 to April of this year and as chairman from July 2003 to October of this year. Prior to joining Goodyear as chief operating officer in 2000, Keegan was president of the consumer imaging business at Eastman Kodak Co.
Keegan received a bachelor of science degree in mathematics from LeMoyne College in Syracuse, N.Y., and a master of business administration degree in finance from the University of Rochester. He is on the Board of Trustees of the University of Rochester and is a board member of the Autism Family Foundation of Northeast Ohio.
About Xerox
Xerox Corporation is a $22 billion leading global enterprise for business process and . Through its broad portfolio of technology and , Xerox provides the essential back-office support that clears the way for clients to focus on what they do best: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox provides leading-edge , services, software and genuine for and of any size. Through ACS, A Xerox Company, which Xerox acquired in February 2010, Xerox also offers extensive and , including data processing, HR benefits management, finance support, and customer relationship management services for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The 133,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit , or . For investor information, visit .
document management
services
real business
document technology
Xerox supplies
graphic communication
office printing environments
business process outsourcing
IT outsourcing services
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.acs-inc.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
Media Contact:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, 1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
Note:
 For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , or . XEROX, XEROX and Design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
http://www.facebook.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts


