FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20100423090616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 23, 2010, Registrant released its first quarter 2010 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Forward Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: April 23, 2010
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Xerox Reports First-Quarter 2010 Results
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., April 23, 2010  (NYSE: XRX) announced today first-quarter 2010 results that include adjusted earnings per share of 18 cents and $375 million in operating cash flow. Adjusted EPS excludes 22 cents from previously disclosed restructuring charges, intangibles, acquisition-related costs and other discrete items, resulting in a GAAP loss of 4 cents per share.
Xerox Corporation
"We started the year strong with the successful acquisition of and solid performance in revenue, operational improvements and cash generation," said , Xerox chief executive officer. "As a result, earnings reflect the benefit of our market leadership and expanded offerings in business process and ."
ACS
Ursula Burns
document management
Total first-quarter revenue of $4.7 billion was up 33 percent including a 3 point currency benefit. On a pro-forma basis, with ACS in the company's 2009 results, total revenue grew 5 percent. Revenue from technology, which represents the sale of document systems as well as the , technical service and financing of products, was up 6 percent including a 3 point currency benefit. Total install activity for Xerox equipment was up 17 percent. Revenue from services grew 3 percent on a pro-forma basis, including a 1 point currency benefit, and represents the company's business process, IT and offerings.
supplies
document outsourcing
"Our results reflect improving demand for Xerox's document technology in developing markets and from . In addition, total color revenue grew 11 percent in the quarter with customers increasingly choosing Xerox as a cost-effective way to get more for less," said Burns. "Equipment sales are still under pressure for large enterprises and the market. However, we're seeing an improving trend in enterprises' use of their existing devices, contributing to our annuity stream and indicating some economic stability in corporate environments.
small and mid-size businesses
color multifunction printers
graphic communications
"Annuity revenue is also significantly strengthened by our growing services portfolio with up 8 percent on a pro-forma basis in the first quarter. Xerox's annuity is now 83 percent of total revenue," added Burns. "We're on track with cost and revenue synergies from the acquisition. This progress coupled with marketplace momentum for our positions us well to deliver continued revenue growth, strong cash and earnings expansion throughout the year."
business process outsourcing
document technology
First-quarter gross margin was 36.1 percent and selling, administrative and general expenses were 23.3 percent of revenue. On a pro-forma basis, operating margin was up 1.5 points, driven by improvements in both gross margin and SAG as a percent of revenue.
Xerox expects second-quarter 2010 GAAP earnings in the range of 14 to 16 cents per share. Second-quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be 20 to 22 cents per share. Full-year GAAP earnings are expected to be 37 to 47 cents per share. Full-year adjusted EPS is expected to be at the high end of the company's previous guidance of 75 to 85 cents per share.
About Xerox
Xerox Corporation is a $22 billion leading global enterprise for business process and . Through its broad portfolio of technology and , Xerox provides the essential back-office support that clears the way for clients to focus on what they do best: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox provides leading-edge , services, software and for and of any size. Through ACS, A Xerox Company, which Xerox acquired in February 2010, Xerox also offers extensive and , including data processing, HR benefits management, finance support, and customer relationship management services for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The 130,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit , or . For investor information, visit .
document management
services
real business
document technology
genuine Xerox supplies
graphic communication
office printing environments
business process outsourcing
IT outsourcing services
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.acs-inc.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
Media Contact:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
This release refers to a non-GAAP financial measure described as "adjusted" EPS (earnings per share) for the first quarter and for second quarter and full year 2010 guidance that excludes several discrete items. In addition, this release also discusses current period revenue and operating margin on a pro-forma basis, with ACS included in the company's 2009 result for the comparable 2010 period. Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
Non GAAP Measures:
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the
 
Page 2
 
anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS"); our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , or .
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.facebook.com/xeroxcorp
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
Xerox and the sphere of connectivity design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
 
Page 3
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
First quarter 2010 total revenues increased 33% compared to the first quarter 2009. Our consolidated 2010 results include the results of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS") since February 5th, 2010, the effective date of the acquisition. On a pro-forma
3
basis, first quarter 2010 total revenue grew 5%. Currency had a 3-percentage point positive impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
First quarter 2010 net loss attributable to Xerox was $42 million, or $0.04 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis, net income attributable to Xerox was $224 million, or $0.18 per diluted share.
First quarter 2009 net income attributable to Xerox was $42 million, or $0.05 per diluted share. On a comparable adjusted basis, net income attributable to Xerox was $73 million, or $0.08 per diluted share.
The adjustments to net income include:
 
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
Notes for Financial Review:
 
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax (Loss) Income.
2010 Segment Reporting Change
In 2010, as a result of our acquisition of ACS, we realigned our internal financial reporting structure. We will begin reporting our financial performance based on two primary segments  Technology and Services. The Technology segment represents the combination of our former Production and Office segments excluding the document outsourcing business, which was previously included in these reportable segments. The Services segment represents the combination of our document outsourcing business, which includes Xerox's historic business process services, and ACS's business process outsourcing and information technology outsourcing businesses. We believe this realignment will help us to better manage our business and view the markets we serve, which are primarily centered around equipment systems and outsourcing services. Our Technology segment operations involve the sale and support of a broad range of document systems from entry level to the high-end. Our Services segment operations involve delivery of a broad range of outsourcing services including document, business processing and IT outsourcing services. Our 2009 segment disclosures have been restated to reflect our new 2010 internal reporting structure. Descriptions of these segments can be found in Appendix II.
 
Technology
Our Technology segment includes the sale of document systems and supplies, provision of technical service and financing of products.
Revenue
 
First quarter 2010 Technology revenue of $2,483 million increased 6%, including a 3-percentage point positive impact from currency. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
Segment Profit
First quarter 2010 Technology profit of $233 million increased $67 million from first quarter 2009, predominantly reflecting gross profit flow-through from higher revenue.
Installs
Entry
 
 
 
Mid-Range
 
 
High-End
 
 
Note: Install activity percentages include installations for Document Outsourcing and the Xerox-branded product shipments to GIS. Descriptions of "Entry", "Mid-Range" and "High-End" can be found in Appendix II.
 
Services
Our Services segment comprises three service offerings: Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO"), Document Outsourcing ("DO") and Information Technology Outsourcing ("ITO").
Revenue
First quarter 2010 Services total revenue of $1,843 million increased 121% or 3% on a pro-forma
1
basis. Currency had a 1-percentage point positive impact on total revenues in the quarter.
 
 
 
 
Segment Profit
First quarter 2010 Services profit of $203 million increased 17%, or $30 million on a pro-forma
1
basis, from first quarter 2009 driven by BPO volume growth including new BPO contract implementations and prior DO expense actions to more appropriately align its business model.
Metrics
Pipeline
Our BPO and ITO sales pipeline grew 3% over the first quarter 2009. This sales pipeline includes the Total Contract Value ("TCV") of new business opportunities that potentially could be contracted within the next six months and excludes business opportunities with estimated annual recurring revenue in excess of $100 million. The DO pipeline grew approximately 8% over first quarter 2009. The DO pipeline includes all active deals with $10 million or greater in TCV. In addition to these pipelines we are pursuing synergy opportunities as a result our of expanded services business.
Signings
Signings ("Signings") are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period including renewals. Services Signings were strong with an estimated $3.9 billion in TCV for the quarter. Combined with the previous three quarters; the trailing twelve month growth was 5% as compared to the comparable prior year period.
 
 
 
Signings growth was driven by strong signings in our Medicaid business. We also signed significant new business in the following businesses:
 
 
 
Note: TCV is estimated total revenue for future contracts for pipeline or signed contracts for Signings as applicable.
Other
Revenue
First quarter 2010 Other revenue of $395 million increased 2%, including a 3-percentage point positive impact from currency and an increase in revenue from Paper. Paper comprised approximately 60-percent of the first quarter 2010 and 2009 Other segment revenue.
Segment Profit
First quarter 2010 Other loss of $104 million increased $9 million from first quarter 2009, driven primarily by higher interest expense.
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
First quarter 2010 total gross margin of 36.1% decreased 2.8-percentage points, and increased 0.6-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2009 on a pro-forma
1
basis. The pro-forma increase was driven by cost improvements and favorable year-over-year transaction currency, which more than offset the impact of price declines.
Sales gross margin increased 2.7-percentage points and increased 2.8-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2009 on a pro-forma
1
basis. Sales gross margin benefited from an increased proportion of higher margin supplies purchases and favorable transaction currency. Cost improvements essentially offset the impact of price declines.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin decreased 6.7-percentage points, and decreased 0.5-percentage points compared to the first quarter 2009 on a pro-forma
1
basis. This pro-forma decline was driven by price declines and mix of 1.2-percentage points only partially offset by cost improvements and favorable year-over-year transaction currency.
 
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
 
RD&E of $205 million in the first quarter 2010 was $1 million higher than the first quarter 2009. R&D of $173 million decreased $2 million, and sustaining engineering costs of $32 million increased $3 million from first quarter 2009.
We invest in technological research and development, particularly in color, software and services. We believe that our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,099 million in the first quarter 2010 were $95 million higher than the first quarter 2009 and $18 million higher on a pro-forma
1
basis, both including a $32 million unfavorable impact from currency. The pro-forma SAG expense increase reflects the following:
 
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the first quarter 2010, we recorded $195 million of net restructuring and asset impairment charges which included $183 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 2,300 employees, lease termination and asset impairment charges of $18 million and $6 million of net reversals primarily due to changes in estimated reserves from prior year initiatives. The first quarter actions applied about equally to North America and Europe, with approximately 10% related to our developing market countries. Of these actions, approximately 45% were focused on gross margin improvements, 30% on SAG reductions and 25% on the optimization of RD&E investments. Charges related to the restructuring or integration of ACS and Xerox operations were not material during the quarter. We expect to incur an additional $85 million over the remainder of the year for restructuring actions which have not yet been finalized. We expect to realize savings in 2010 of approximately $140 million for our restructuring actions.
The restructuring reserve balance as of March 31, 2010 for all programs was $246 million, of which approximately $227 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Acquisition Related Costs
Costs of $48 million were incurred during the first quarter 2010 in connection with our acquisition of ACS. These costs include $42 million of transaction costs, which represent external costs directly related to completing the acquisition of ACS and primarily include expenditures for investment banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. Legal costs also include costs associated with the on-going litigation by ACS's shareholders regarding the acquisition and are expected to continue to be incurred until resolution of these cases. The remainder of the acquisition related costs represents external incremental costs directly related to the integration of ACS and Xerox. These costs include expenditures for consulting, systems integration and corporate communication services.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
During the first quarter 2010, we recorded $57 million of expense related to the amortization of intangibles assets, which is $43 million higher than first quarter 2009. The increase primarily reflects the amortization of intangibles associated with our acquisition of ACS. As a result of the ACS acquisition, amortization of acquired intangibles for 2010 is expected to be approximately $250 million higher than the prior year.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 130,100 at March 31, 2010 increased approximately 76,500 from year-end 2009, primarily due to additional headcount acquired with the ACS acquisition.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
First quarter 2010 non-financing interest expense of $89 million was $28 million higher than first quarter 2009 due to higher debt balances as a result of our $2 billion Senior Note offering used to finance the acquisition of ACS.
Currency Losses, Net
In January 2010, Venezuela announced a devaluation of the Bolivar to an official rate of 4.30 Bolivars to the dollar for our products. As a result of this devaluation, we recorded a currency loss of $21 million in the first quarter of 2010 for the re-measurement of our net Bolivar denominated monetary assets. First quarter 2009 currency losses were primarily due to the significant movement in exchange rates among the U.S. Dollar, Euro and Yen during the quarter, as well as the increased cost of hedging, particularly in developing markets.
Income Taxes
 
First quarter 2010 effective tax rate was (220.0)%. On an adjusted basis, first quarter 2010 tax rate was 32.2%
4
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to tax benefits associated with the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and the re-measurement of certain unrecognized tax positions partially offset by the incremental U.S. tax cost on foreign income.
 
First quarter 2009 effective tax rate was 24.4%. On an adjusted basis, first quarter 2009 tax rate was 26.1%
4
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable.
We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remaining quarters of 2010 will be approximately 32%, excluding the effects of any discrete events.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net loss of unconsolidated affiliates of $2 million improved $8 million compared to first quarter 2009, which reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's higher net income driven by higher revenue and cost improvements. First quarter 2010 include charges of $22 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and was equal to first quarter 2009 charges.
Notes for Operations Review:
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $375 million in the first quarter 2010 reflecting the inclusion of ACS as well as $75 million of cash outflows for acquisition related costs. The $353 million increase in cash from first quarter 2009 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $1,566 million in the first quarter 2010. The $1,359 million decrease in cash from first quarter 2009 was primarily due to the 2010 acquisitions of ACS for $1,495 million and IBS for $29 million as compared to $145 million for GIS's acquisition of ComDoc, Inc. in 2009.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $1,565 million in the first quarter 2010. The $1,083 million decrease in cash from first quarter 2009 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
ACS Acquisition
On February 5, 2010 we acquired all of the outstanding equity of ACS in a cash-and-stock transaction, valued at approximately $6.2 billion, net of cash acquired. The table below details the consideration transferred to acquire ACS:
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
The reduction of $315 million in Total finance assets, net includes unfavorable currency of $149 million.
 
The following summarizes our debt as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
 
 
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation, therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total Finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
Sale of Accounts Receivables
We have facilities in the U.S., Canada and several countries in Europe that enable us to sell, on an on-going basis, certain accounts receivable without recourse to third-parties. The accounts receivables sold are generally short-term trade receivables with a payment due date of less than 60 days. Accounts receivables sales for the first quarter 2010 and 2009 were as follows:
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2010 first quarter presentation slides available at www.xerox.com/investor.
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
To better understand the trends in our business and the impact of the ACS acquisition, we believe it is necessary to adjust the following amounts determined in accordance with GAAP to exclude the effects of the certain items as well as their related income tax effects:
 
 
 
The above have been adjusted for the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
Pro-forma Basis
To better understand the trends in our business, we discuss our 2010 operating results by comparing them against adjusted 2009 results which include ACS historical results for the comparable period. ACS is included in our 2010 results since the date of acquisition (2/5/10) through the end of the quarter (3/31/10). Accordingly, we have included ACS's 2009 estimated results for the comparable period 2/6/09 through 3/31/09 in our reported 2009 results. We refer to comparisons against these adjusted 2009 results as "pro-forma" basis comparisons. ACS 2009 historical results have been adjusted to reflect fair value adjustments related to property, equipment and computer software as well as customer contract costs. In addition, adjustments were made for deferred revenue, exited businesses and other material non-recurring costs associated with the acquisition. We believe comparisons on a pro-forma basis are more meaningful than the actual comparisons given the size and nature of the ACS acquisition. We believe the pro forma basis comparisons allow investors to have better understanding and additional perspective of the expected trends in our business as well as the impact of the ACS acquisition on the Company's operations.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods' results against the corresponding prior periods' results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth on the following tables:
 
Net Income and EPS reconciliation:
 
 
 
 
Effective Tax reconciliation:
 
Operating Income / Margin reconciliation:
 
 
Pro-forma:
Total Xerox:
 
NOTES:
 
 
Total Xerox:
 
NOTES:
 
Services Segment:
 
NOTES:
 
 
APPENDIX I
Xerox Corporation
Earnings per Common Share
 
 
APPENDIX II
Xerox Corporation
Reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-Tax (Loss) Income
 
Our reportable segments are aligned to how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Technology, Services and Other.
 
 


