FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20100121064934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 21, 2010, Registrant released its fourth quarter 2009 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS"); and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 and ACS's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Xerox and ACS urge investors and security holders to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction before making any voting or investment decision because it contains important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about Xerox and ACS, without charge, at the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). Copies of the joint proxy statement/prospectus and the filings with the SEC that are incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, without charge, from Xerox's website, http://www.xerox.com, under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings". You may also obtain these documents, without charge, from ACS's website, http://www.acs-inc.com, under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings". Information regarding participants or persons who may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction is contained in Xerox's proxy statement for its most recent annual meeting and ACS's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, both as filed with the SEC.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: January 21, 2010
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2009 Earnings
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., Jan. 21, 2010  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today fourth-quarter 2009 results that include GAAP earnings per share of 20 cents, adjusted earnings per share of 25 cents and $967 million in operating cash flow. The adjusted EPS excludes a previously disclosed charge for acquisition- related costs of 5 cents per share.
"We delivered a strong close to a difficult year, with solid operational results that reflect our disciplined approach to generating cash and reducing costs," said Ursula Burns, Xerox chief executive officer.
"During the fourth quarter, we saw signs of improvement in several areas including developing markets, and we remain quite confident in our strong global competitive position," she added. "However, we believe revenue will continue to be under pressure until there is a more sustainable economic recovery. To help offset this challenge, we remain focused on cost and expense management and sizing our business to better match current revenue levels."
The company reported fourth-quarter total revenue of $4.2 billion, down 3 percent from fourth-quarter 2008 including a 4 point benefit from currency. Equipment sale revenue declined 11 percent or 15 percent in constant currency. Post-sale and financing revenue was flat, or declined 4 percent in constant currency.
"We're encouraged by improving trends in our post-sale revenue and continued strong signings for Xerox's managed print services that help our clients reduce their document costs," said Burns. "The increasing demand for services supports the benefits of our acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services. We're on track to close the acquisition next month. Once completed, Xerox will be the world leader in business process and document management."
Gross margin was 39.9 percent in the fourth quarter, an increase of two points from the prior year. Selling, administrative and general expenses were up year over year by $23 million driven by currency, and SAG as a percent of revenue was 26.7 percent in the fourth quarter.
The company's full-year 2009 net income was $485 million, including after-tax acquisition-related costs of $49 million. Total revenue was $15.2 billion, down from $17.6 billion in 2008.
Xerox generated $2.2 billion of operating cash flow in 2009, exceeding its full-year expectations by $500 million. Total debt was reduced by $1.1 billion in 2009, excluding the $2 billion of ACS-related notes issued last month. The company ended the year with a cash balance of $3.8 billion.
During the first quarter of 2010, Xerox expects to take a pre-tax restructuring charge of approximately $250 million to continue implementing its cost-reduction activities on a global basis. Including ACS results, Xerox expects full-year 2010 GAAP earnings in the range of 36 to 46 cents per share. Adjusted EPS is expected to be 75 to 85 cents per share, which excludes restructuring, adjustments related to the ACS acquisition and other discrete items.
Media Contact:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
This release refers to a non-GAAP financial measure described as "adjusted" EPS (earnings per share) for the fourth quarter and full year 2009 and for full year 2010 guidance that excludes several items. In addition, this release also discusses revenue growth using a measure noted as "Constant Currency" that excludes the effects of currency translation. Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
Non GAAP Measures:
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS"); and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 and ACS's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information.
Xerox and ACS urge investors and security holders to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction before making any voting or investment decision because it contains important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about Xerox and ACS, without charge, at the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). Copies of the
 
Page 2
joint proxy statement/prospectus and the filings with the SEC that are incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, without charge, from Xerox's website, http://www.xerox.com, under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings". You may also obtain these documents, without charge, from ACS's website, http://www.acs-inc.com, under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings". Information regarding participants or persons who may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction is contained in Xerox's proxy statement for its most recent annual meeting and ACS's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, both as filed with the SEC.
For more information on Xerox, visit or . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , , or .
http://www.xerox.com
http://www.xerox.com/news
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.facebook.com/xeroxcorp
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
Xerox and the sphere of connectivity design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
 
Page 3
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
(
1)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
(
1)
 
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
 
Fourth quarter 2009 total revenues decreased 3% compared to the fourth quarter 2008. While moderating, worldwide economic weakness continues to negatively impact our major market segments. Currency had a 4-percentage point positive impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
Fourth quarter 2009 net income attributable to Xerox of $180 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, included a $41 million after-tax ($63 million pre-tax) charge, or $0.05 per diluted share, related to costs associated with the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., announced in September and a charge of $6 million or $0.01 per diluted share for our share of Fuji Xerox's after-tax restructuring costs.
Fourth quarter 2008 net income of $1 million, or zero earnings per diluted share, included after-tax net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $240 million ($349 million pre-tax), or $0.27 per diluted share, and an equipment write-off of $24 million ($39 million pre-tax) or $0.03 per diluted share.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-tax Income (Loss).
Note:
 
Production
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2009 Production revenue of $1,305 million decreased 4%, including a 4-percentage point positive impact from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Fourth quarter 2009 Production profit of $67 million decreased $56 million from fourth quarter 2008, reflecting the lower gross profit flow-through from revenue declines and higher SAG expenses. SAG increases include unfavorable currency, which more than offset an improvement in bad debts and flow-through of savings from continued cost actions.
Office
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2009 Office revenue of $2,369 million decreased 2%, including a 3-percentage point positive impact from currency, reflecting:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Profit
Fourth quarter 2009 Office profit of $267 million increased $9 million from fourth quarter 2008 as higher gross profit and savings from continued cost actions were partially offset by increased SAG expenses driven by unfavorable currency and higher bad debt.
Other
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2009 Other revenue of $545 million decreased 10%, including a 2-percentage point positive impact from currency, primarily from paper and wide format revenue declines. Paper comprised approximately half of the fourth quarter 2009 and 2008 Other segment revenue.
Operating Profit
Fourth quarter 2009 Other loss of $47 million improved $16 million from fourth quarter 2008, driven by higher equity income and a reduction in costs and expenses as a result of continued cost actions.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
Fourth quarter 2009 total gross margin was 39.9%. Fourth quarter 2008 margin of 37.9% included an equipment write-off. Excluding the impact of this 2008 write-off
4
, fourth quarter 2009 total gross margin increased by 1.1-percentage points. This increase was driven by cost improvements enabled by restructuring and cost actions and the moderating year-over-year impact of transaction currency, which more than offset the impact of price declines.
Sales gross margin increased 3.1-percentage points compared to the fourth quarter 2008. Excluding the impact of the fourth quarter 2008 equipment write-off
4
, fourth quarter 2009 sales gross margin increased 1.3-percentage points. This increase was driven by cost improvements, the positive mix of revenues and the moderating year-over-year impact of transaction currency, which more than offset the 2.1-percentage points impact of price declines.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin increased 0.6-percentage points compared to the fourth quarter 2008 primarily due to restructuring savings and other cost actions which more than offset the approximately 0.8-percentage point impact of pricing declines.
 
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
 
RD&E of $225 million in the fourth quarter 2009 was $13 million higher than the fourth quarter 2008, reflecting higher compensation accruals offset by restructuring and cost actions from the consolidation of the Production and Office development and engineering infrastructure. R&D of $191 million increased $11 million, and sustaining engineering costs of $34 million increased $2 million from fourth quarter 2008.
 
We invest in technological research and development, particularly in color, software and services. We believe that our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,125 million in the fourth quarter 2009 were $23 million higher than the fourth quarter 2008, including a $37 million unfavorable impact from currency. The SAG expense increase reflected the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the fourth quarter 2009, we recorded a net restructuring credit of $3 million. The net credit primarily reflected reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior year initiatives. During the fourth quarter 2008, we recorded $349 million of net restructuring and asset impairment charges primarily for severance costs relating to headcount reductions of 3,400 and $53 million of asset impairments relating to the rationalization of our worldwide operating locations.
The restructuring reserve balance as of December 31, 2009 for all programs was $74 million, of which approximately $64 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Acquisition Related Costs
Acquisition related costs of approximately $63 million were incurred and expensed during the fourth quarter 2009 in connection with our previously announced pending acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. $58 million of the costs relate to the write-off of fees associated with the Bridge Loan Facility commitment which was terminated as a result of securing permanent financing to fund the acquisition. The remainder of the costs represent transaction costs such as banking, legal and accounting fees and also includes some pre-integration costs such as external consulting services.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 53,600 at December 31, 2009 decreased approximately 3,500 from year-end 2008, primarily due to restructuring reductions, partially offset by additional headcount related to GIS acquisitions.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Fourth quarter 2009 non-financing interest expense of $68 million was $4 million lower than fourth quarter 2008 as interest expense associated with our $2 billion Senior Note offering for the ACS acquisition was more than offset by lower average balances on the remaining debt driven by scheduled repayments.
Legal Matters
Fourth quarter 2009 costs for litigation matters were $1 million, which was $22 million higher than fourth quarter 2008. Fourth quarter 2008 included net litigation reserve reductions of $21 million primarily associated with securities-related litigation, Brazil labor-related litigation and other litigation matters.
Income Taxes
 
The fourth quarter 2009 effective tax rate was 15.5% and included a $22 million benefit from the tax effect of the fourth quarter 2009 acquisition related costs. Excluding this item, the adjusted effective tax rate was 20.2%
5
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the geographical mix of income and the settlement of various tax positions offset by a reduction in foreign tax credit benefits.
The fourth quarter 2008 effective tax rate was 83.1% and included a $124 million benefit from the tax effect of the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring and asset impairment charges as well as the equipment write-off. Excluding these items, the adjusted effective tax rate was 20.5%
5
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily reflecting the benefit to taxes from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and the utilization of foreign tax credits as well as a tax law change.
 
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable.
Including the results from Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., we anticipate that our effective tax rate for 2010 will be approximately 32%, excluding the effects of any discrete events.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $27 million increased $6 million compared to fourth quarter 2008, which reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's higher net income, and was driven by cost improvements that offset lower revenue resulting from worldwide economic weakness. Fourth quarter 2009 equity income included a $6 million charge related to our share of Fuji Xerox's after-tax restructuring.
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $967 million in the fourth quarter 2009. The $782 million increase in cash from fourth quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $69 million in the fourth quarter 2009. The $334 million decrease in cash from fourth quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,746 million in the fourth quarter 2009. The $1,806 million increase in cash from fourth quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our total finance assets associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
The reduction of $294 million in Total finance assets, net includes favorable currency of $224 million.
 
The following summarizes our debt as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
 
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation, therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total Finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
Sale of Accounts Receivables
During the fourth quarter 2009, we sold $606 million of accounts receivables, as compared to $349 million in the third quarter 2009 and $246 million in the fourth quarter 2008. Fees associated with these sales were approximately $4 million, $3 million and $2 million, respectively. $530 million of receivables sold to date remained uncollected by the third party purchasers as of December 31, 2009. We do not have any current or future liability for these non-recourse sales.
2010 Earnings Guidance
Including ACS results, Xerox expects full-year 2010 GAAP earnings per share (EPS) in the range of $0.36 to $0.46 and adjusted EPS
(5)
guidance is expected to be in the range of $0.75  $0.85. First quarter 2010 GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $(0.11) to $(0.13) and adjusted EPS
(5)
guidance is expected to be in the range of $0.11 to $0.13.
 
Accounting Change
On January 1, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 160 "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51", (Accounting Standards Codification
TM
Topic 810-10-65). This guidance requires that minority interests be renamed noncontrolling interests and be presented as a separate component of equity. In addition, the Company must report a consolidated net income (loss) measure that includes the amount attributable to such noncontrolling interests for all periods presented.
Subsequent Events
We have operations in Venezuela where the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency. At December 31, 2009, our Venezuelan operations had approximately 90 million in net Bolivar denominated monetary assets that were remeasured to U.S. Dollars at the official exchange rate of 2.15 Bolivars to the dollar. In January 2010, Venezuela announced a devaluation of the Bolivar to an official rate of 4.30 Bolivars to the dollar for our products. As a result of this devaluation, we expect to record a loss of approximately $22 million in the first quarter of 2010 for the remeasurement of our net Bolivar denominated monetary assets. Other than the loss from remeasurement, we do not expect the devaluation to materially impact our results of operations or financial position in 2010, since we derive less than 0.5% of our total revenue from Venezuela and expect to take actions to lessen the effect of the devaluation.
 
On January 20, 2010, we announced the acquisition of Irish Business Systems Limited (IBS), for approximately $31 million. This acquisition expands our reach into the small and mid-sized business (SMB) market in Ireland. IBS, with eight offices located throughout Ireland, is a managed print services provider and the largest independent supplier of digital imaging and printing solutions in Ireland.
In connection with our continued objective to reduce costs on a global basis, we expect to record pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $250 million in the first quarter 2010. The actions are expected to impact all geographies and segments with approximately equal focus on SAG reductions, gross margin improvements and optimization of RD&E investments. The restructuring is also expected to involve the rationalization and consolidation of some facilities.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS"); and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 and ACS's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2009 fourth quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Adjusted Net Income and EPS
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust diluted earnings per share and net income for the fourth quarter and full year 2009 to exclude the effect of the fourth quarter 2009 costs related to the acquisition of ACS. Management believes that excluding the effects of these items enables investors to better understand and analyze the current periods' results and provides a better measure of comparability given the discrete nature of these charges. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the following reconciliation table:
 
 
Adjusted Effective Tax Rate
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust the effective tax rate for the fourth quarter 2009 and 2008 to exclude: (1) the fourth quarter 2009 costs related to the acquisition of ACS; (2) the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring and asset impairment charges; and (3) the fourth quarter 2008 equipment write-off charge. Management believes that excluding the tax effects of these items will enable investors to better understand and analyze the current periods' effective tax rate given the discrete nature of these items in the respective period. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the following reconciliation tables:
 
 
Adjusted Total Gross Margin; Adjusted Sales Gross Margin:
To better understand trends in our business, we believe it is helpful to adjust total gross margin and sales gross margin for the fourth quarter 2008 to exclude the effect of charges associated with an equipment write-off. Management believes that excluding the effect of this charge will enable investors to better understand and analyze the current periods' results and provide a better basis for assessing future trends in gross margins because of the discrete nature of the equipment write-off charge. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the following reconciliation tables:
 
2010 GuidanceAdjusted EPS:
To better understand the trends in our business and the impact of the ACS acquisition post-closing, we believe it is necessary to adjust first quarter and full year 2010 diluted earnings per share to exclude the effects of the following items: (1) the amortization of purchased intangible assets; (2) restructuring and asset impairment charges including those incurred by Fuji Xerox; and (3) acquisition related costs. In addition, we have also excluded the loss associated with the Venezuela devaluation given the discrete nature of this loss. Management believes that excluding the effects of these items enables investors to better understand and analyze the impact of the ACS acquisition as well as results for a particular period as compared to prior periods. Management also expects to use this non-GAAP financial measure in its own evaluation of the Company's performance in 2010, particularly when comparing performance to prior periods. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is set forth in the following reconciliation tables:
 
 
APPENDIX I
Xerox Corporation
Earnings per Common Share
 
 
APPENDIX II
Xerox Corporation
Reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-Tax Income
 
Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Production, Office and Other. The Production and Office segments are centered around strategic product groups, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms, as well as classes of customers.
 
 


