FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20101021064812.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 21, 2010, Registrant released its third quarter 2010 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010 as well as in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: October 21, 2010
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Xerox Reports Third-Quarter 2010 Earnings; Raises Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., Oct. 21, 2010  (NYSE: XRX) announced today third-quarter 2010 results that include adjusted earnings per share of 22 cents and $366 million in operating cash flow. Adjusted EPS excludes 5 cents from restructuring charges and amortization of intangibles, resulting in GAAP EPS of 17 cents.
Xerox Corporation
"Building on our solid first-half results, we delivered steady revenue and earnings growth in the third quarter, keeping us on track to close the year strong," said , Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "We've transformed our company into the world's leading enterprise for and . In doing so, we've been successful in leveraging our brand, global scale and to win multi-year contracts for business process, and . As a result, we are raising our guidance for both this year and 2011 to reflect the positive momentum we're building in the marketplace and the efficiencies we're driving across the business.
Ursula Burns
business process
document management
innovation
IT
document outsourcing
"During the third quarter alone, signings for service contracts grew 26 percent and pro-forma revenue from our BPO offerings was up 8 percent. Along with 13 percent growth in equipment sales, this progress fuels our healthy annuity stream for the long term," she added.
Third-quarter revenue of $5.4 billion was up 48 percent including a 2 point negative impact from currency. On a pro-forma basis, with in the company's 2009 results, total revenue grew 2 percent or 4 percent in constant currency. Revenue from technology, representing the sale of document systems, , technical service and financing of products, was up 3 percent or 5 percent in constant currency. Total install activity for Xerox equipment was up 20 percent, reflecting strong demand across all product segments. Revenue from was up 2 percent on a pro-forma basis including a 1 point negative impact from currency, and represents the company's business process, IT and document outsourcing offerings.
ACS
supplies
services
Third-quarter gross margin was 33.6 percent, and selling, administrative and general expenses were 20.9 percent of revenue. On a pro-forma basis, operating margin of 9.2 percent was up nearly one point.
The $366 million in operating cash flow in the third quarter contributed to $1.4 billion in cash flow year to date. The company reiterated its expectations to deliver $2.6 billion in operating cash and $2 billion in free cash flow for the full year. The fourth quarter is seasonally the highest cash quarter of the year for the company.
 
 
 
Xerox expects 2010 restructuring will be $120 million more than previously disclosed. The additional restructuring is related to acquisition synergies, adverse currency and cost-reduction activities. As a result, the company expects fourth-quarter GAAP earnings of 13 to 14 cents per share. Fourth-quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be 28 to 29 cents per share. Full-year GAAP earnings are expected to be 45 to 46 cents per share. Full-year adjusted earnings are expected to be 92 to 93 cents per share, up from 88 to 92 cents per share.
Xerox now expects 2011 full-year adjusted earnings per share of $1.05 to $1.10, up from 95 cents to $1.05 per share. The company also expects free cash flow of $2.1 billion and $1 billion in available cash for 2011.
About Xerox
Xerox Corporation is a $22 billion leading global enterprise for business process and . Through its broad portfolio of technology and , Xerox provides the essential back-office support that clears the way for clients to focus on what they do best: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox provides leading-edge , services, software and for and of any size. Through ACS, A Xerox Company, which Xerox acquired in February 2010, Xerox also offers extensive and , including data processing, HR benefits management, finance support, and customer relationship management services for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The 133,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit , or . For investor information, visit .
document management
services
real business
document technology
genuine Xerox supplies
graphic communication
office printing environments
business process outsourcing
IT outsourcing services
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.acs-inc.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
Media Contact:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
This release refers to the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Non GAAP Measures:
 
 
 
 
Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
 
 
 
This presentation contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010 and our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , , , or .
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxoffice
http://twitter.com/xeroxproduction
http://twitter.com/servicesatxerox
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
Xerox
and the sphere of connectivity design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
Third quarter 2010 total revenues increased 48% compared to the third quarter 2009. Our consolidated 2010 results include the results of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS"). On a pro-forma
3
basis, third quarter 2010 total revenue grew 2%. Currency had a 2-percentage point negative impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
Third quarter 2010 net income attributable to Xerox was $250 million, or $0.17 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis, net income attributable to Xerox was $314 million, or $0.22 per diluted share.
Third quarter 2009 net income attributable to Xerox was $123 million, or $0.14 per diluted share. On a comparable adjusted basis, net income attributable to Xerox was $150 million, or $0.17 per diluted share.
The adjustments to net income include:
 
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I. See Non-GAAP financial measures for calculation of adjusted EPS.
 
Notes for Financial Review:
 
 
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Profit to Pre-tax Income.
Technology
Our Technology segment includes the sale of products and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products.
Revenue
 
Third quarter 2010 Technology revenue of $2,466 million increased 3%, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency. Revenue results included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Profit
Third quarter 2010 Technology profit of $247 million increased $13 million from third quarter 2009. The increase in revenues and the lower cost and expense driven by restructuring more than offset the negative mix impact on gross profit from the increased percentage of equipment revenues.
Installs
Entry
 
 
 
Mid-Range
 
 
High-End
 
 
Note: Install activity percentages include installations for Document Outsourcing and the Xerox-branded products shipped to GIS. "Entry", "Mid-Range" and "High-End" are defined in Appendix II.
Services
Our Services segment comprises three service offerings: Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO"), Document Outsourcing ("DO") and Information Technology Outsourcing ("ITO").
Revenue
Third quarter 2010 Services total revenue of $2,554 million increased 195%, or 2% on a pro-forma
1
basis, and included a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency.
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Profit
Third quarter 2010 Services profit of $286 million increased $228 million, or $28 million on a pro-forma
1
basis, from third quarter 2009 driven primarily by BPO revenue growth.
Metrics
Pipeline
Our BPO and ITO sales pipeline, including synergy opportunities, grew approximately 40% over the third quarter 2009. This sales pipeline includes the Total Contract Value ("TCV") of new business opportunities that potentially could be contracted within the next six months and excludes business opportunities with estimated annual recurring revenue in excess of $100 million. The DO sales pipeline grew approximately 16% over the third quarter 2009. The DO sales pipeline includes all active deals with $10 million or greater in TCV.
Signings
Signings ("Signings") are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals. Services Signings were an estimated $3.0 billion in TCV for the quarter. Combined with the previous three quarters the trailing twelve month growth was 26% as compared to the comparable prior year period.
 
 
 
Signings growth was driven by strong Signings in our BPO and DO businesses. We signed significant new business in the following areas:
 
 
 
Note: TCV is estimated total revenue for future contracts for pipeline or signed contracts for Signings as applicable.
Other
Revenue
Third quarter 2010 Other revenue of $408 million decreased 1%, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency. Increases in network integration and electronic presentation systems and Wide Format equipment sales offset a decline in paper sales and the impact of currency. Paper comprised approximately 60% of the third quarter 2010 and 2009 Other segment revenue.
Segment Profit
Third quarter 2010 Other loss of $79 million improved $9 million from third quarter 2009, driven primarily by higher gross profit reflecting an increase in gross margins as a result of the mix of revenues.
 
 
COSTS, EXPENSES AND OTHER INCOME
Gross Margin
 
Third quarter 2010 total gross margin of 33.6% decreased 6.2-percentage points, or 0.3-percentage points on a pro-forma
1
basis as compared to the third quarter 2009. Third quarter 2009 results included a benefit of 0.3-percentage points related to a favorable property tax adjustment in North America.
Sales gross margin was flat and increased 0.6-percentage points compared to the third quarter 2009 on a pro-forma
1
basis. On a pro-forma basis, the positive impact of cost improvements more than offset the impact of price declines and unfavorable year-over-year transaction currency.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin decreased 10.5-percentage points, or 0.7-percentage points compared to the third quarter 2009 on a pro-forma
1
basis. On a pro-forma basis, the positive impact of cost reductions was more than offset by negative mix, a third quarter 2009 favorable property tax adjustment in North America and the impact of unfavorable year-over-year transaction currency.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
 
RD&E of $189 million in the third quarter 2010 was $20 million lower than the third quarter 2009 reflecting the benefits from restructuring and productivity improvements. We invest in technological research and development, particularly in color, software and services. We believe that our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
 
 
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,136 million in the third quarter 2010 were $129 million higher than the third quarter 2009 and $18 million lower on a pro-forma
1
basis. There was an $18 million favorable impact from currency for the quarter. The SAG expense impact reflects the following on a pro-forma basis:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the third quarter 2010, we recorded an additional $4 million of net restructuring and asset impairment charges, which included approximately $10 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 100 employees for new actions primarily in North America. These costs were partially offset by $6 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
We expect to incur additional restructuring costs of $120 million in 2010 beyond the $280 million full year amount that was previously disclosed for actions and initiatives that have not yet been finalized.
The restructuring reserve balance as of September 30, 2010, for all programs was $131 million, of which approximately $114 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Acquisition Related Costs
Costs of $5 million were incurred during the third quarter 2010 in connection with our acquisition of ACS. These costs primarily represent incremental external costs directly related to the integration of ACS and Xerox and include expenditures for consulting, systems integration, corporate communication services and consolidation of facilities.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
During the third quarter 2010, we recorded $85 million of expense related to the amortization of intangible assets, which is $70 million higher than third quarter 2009. The increase primarily reflects the amortization of intangibles associated with our acquisition of ACS. As a result of the ACS acquisition, amortization of acquired intangibles for 2010 is expected to be approximately $250 million higher than the prior year.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 133,200 at September 30, 2010 increased approximately 79,600 from year-end 2009, primarily due to additional headcount associated with the ACS acquisition.
 
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Third quarter 2010 non-financing interest expense of $87 million was $23 million higher than third quarter 2009 due to higher debt balances primarily resulting from our $2 billion Senior Note offering used to finance the acquisition of ACS.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
Third quarter 2010 Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets of $15 million was $9 million higher than third quarter 2009 due to the sale of a facility in Latin America.
 
 
Income Taxes
 
Third quarter 2010 effective tax rate was 29.9%. On an adjusted basis, third quarter 2010 tax rate was 31.8%
3
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the net tax benefits from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in these jurisdictions as well as the settlement and remeasurement of certain previously unrecognized tax benefits. These benefits were partially offset by the incremental U.S. tax cost on foreign income.
Third quarter 2009 effective tax rate was 27.8%. On an adjusted basis, the third quarter 2009 tax rate was 27.5%
3
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the net tax benefits from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in these jurisdictions.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in these jurisdictions and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate, on an adjusted basis, for the fourth quarter of 2010 will be approximately 32%, excluding the effects of any discrete events.
 
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $26 million improved $11 million compared to third quarter 2009, which reflects our 25% share of higher Fuji Xerox net income driven by increased revenue and cost improvements. Third quarter 2010 equity income includes charges of $6 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring compared to $9 million of charges for the third quarter 2009.
 
Notes for Operations Review:
 
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $366 million in the third quarter 2010 and includes approximately $14 million of cash outflows for acquisition-related costs. The $244 million decrease in cash from third quarter 2009 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $266 million in the third quarter 2010. The $235 million increase in the use of cash from third quarter 2009 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $231 million in the third quarter 2010. The $423 million decrease in the use of cash from third quarter 2009 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our Total finance assets, net associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
The reduction of $501 million in Total finance assets, net includes unfavorable currency of $91 million.
 
The following summarizes our debt as of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
 
 
 
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation, therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
Sales of Accounts Receivables
We have facilities in the U.S., Canada and several countries in Europe that enable us to sell, on an on-going basis, certain accounts receivables without recourse to third-parties. The accounts receivables sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. Accounts receivables sales activity for the third quarter 2010 and 2009 were as follows:
 
 
Subsequent Event
In October 2010, we redeemed our $550 million 7.625% Senior Notes that were due in 2013 and our $25 million 6.00% Medium-term notes due in 2014. We incurred a loss on extinguishment of approximately $15 million representing the call premium of approximately $7 million on the $550 million Senior Notes as well as the write-off of unamortized debt costs of $8 million. As a result, the Senior Notes and Medium-term notes are included in short-term debt on the balance sheet at September 30, 2010.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010 and our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2010 third quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
To better understand the trends in our business and the impact of the ACS acquisition, we believe it is necessary to adjust the following amounts determined in accordance with GAAP to exclude the effects of the certain items as well as their related income tax effects:
 
 
 
The above have been adjusted for the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pro-forma Basis
To better understand the trends in our business, we discuss our 2010 operating results by comparing them against adjusted 2009 results which include ACS historical results for the comparable period. Accordingly, we have included ACS's 2009 estimated results for the comparable period, July 1st through September 30th in 2009 in our reported 2009 results. We refer to comparisons against these adjusted 2009 results as "pro-forma" basis comparisons. ACS 2009 historical results have been adjusted to reflect fair value adjustments related to property, equipment and computer software as well as customer contract costs. In addition, adjustments were made for deferred revenue, exited businesses and other material non-recurring costs associated with the acquisition. We believe comparisons on a pro-forma basis are more meaningful than the actual comparisons given the size and nature of the ACS acquisition. We believe the pro-forma basis comparisons allow investors to have better understanding and additional perspective of the expected trends in our business as well as the impact of the ACS acquisition on the Company's operations.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Free Cash Flow
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust cash flows from operations to exclude amounts for capital expenditures including internal use software. Management believes this measure gives investors an additional perspective on cash flow from operating activities in excess of amounts required for reinvestment. It provides a measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, dividends and share repurchase. It also is used to measure our yield on market capitalization.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods' results against the corresponding prior periods' results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
 
 
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth on the following tables:
Net Income and EPS reconciliation:
 
Average shares for the calculation of adjusted EPS were 1,444 million and include 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and therefore excludes the quarterly dividends of $6 million. On a quarterly basis we evaluate the dilutive effect of the Series A convertible preferred stock on an "if-converted" basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Tax reconciliation:
 
Operating Income / Margin reconciliation:
 
 
 
Pro-forma:
Total Xerox:
 
 
NOTES:
 
 
Total Xerox:
 
 
NOTES:
Services Segment:
 
 
NOTES:
 
 
Free Cash Flow Guidance:
 
 
 
APPENDIX I
Xerox Corporation
Earnings per Common Share
(in millions, except per share data. Shares in thousands)
 
 
 
APPENDIX II
Xerox Corporation
Reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-Tax Income
 
Our reportable segments are aligned to how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Technology, Services and Other.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


