FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20100330082039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 30, 2010, Xerox Corporation (the "Company") announced that Anne M. Mulcahy, one of the Company's named executive officers and Chairman of the Board, will not stand for reelection at the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 20, 2010 and, effective May 20, 2010, will step down as Chairman of the Board. The Company also announced that Ursula M. Burns, currently Chief Executive Officer, has been elected to succeed Mrs. Mulcahy as Chairman of the Board, effective May 20, 2010. A copy of the press release on this topic is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
 
Date: March 30, 2010
 

Exhibit 99
 
Xerox Chairman Anne Mulcahy to Retire
NORWALK, Conn., March 30, 2010  (NYSE: XRX) announced today that Anne M. Mulcahy will step down as chairman and a director of the board, effective May 20, the day of Xerox's annual shareholders' meeting. Xerox CEO will then assume the additional role of chairman.
Xerox Corporation
Ursula M. Burns
"Leaving Xerox is not easy, but the time is right," said Mulcahy. "This decision is made infinitely easier by the knowledge that I turn the company over to a gifted leader at a point when our strategy is sound, our financial position is strong, and our opportunities for growth are considerable."
Mulcahy, 57, became chief executive officer of Xerox on Aug. 1, 2001, and chairman on Jan. 1, 2002. Prior to that, she was president and chief operating officer of the company from May 2000 through July 2001. She began her Xerox career as a sales representative in Boston in 1976. During her 34-year tenure with Xerox, Mulcahy has held senior management positions in sales, human resources and marketing, and led the Xerox business division that sells products for reseller and dealer channels.
"Anne leaves a rich legacy that is defined by her close connection to Xerox customers, her active engagement with Xerox people, and her steadfast commitment to the values of the company that are inherent in its culture and in her effective leadership," said N.J. Nicholas, Jr., lead independent director of . "As important, she has worked closely with the board to ensure a seamless and well planned leadership succession. She has earned our tremendous respect and our deepest gratitude."
Xerox's board of directors
Last July Burns became CEO of Xerox. The board has elected Burns to succeed Mulcahy in the chairman role, effective May 20.
"A remarkable leader who inspires followership, Anne was instrumental in recreating our company at a time when we needed it most," said Burns. "She prioritized investments in , shifted our strategy to become more focused on , and significantly improved our financial health. As a result, we have a strong foundation from which to build an even stronger company. I am grateful for Anne's extraordinary contributions, humbled by her confidence in my leadership, and committed to honoring her impressive legacy."
innovation
services
About Xerox
Xerox Corporation is a $22 billion leading global enterprise for and . Through its broad portfolio of technology, offerings, Xerox provides the essential back-office support that clears the way for clients to focus on what they do best: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox provides leading-edge document technology, services, software and for and environments of any size. Through ACS, A Xerox Company, which Xerox acquired in February 2010, Xerox also offers extensive and , including data processing, HR benefits management, finance support, and customer relationship management services for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The 130,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries.
business process
document management
services and outsourcing
real business
supplies
production
office
business process outsourcing
information technology outsourcing services
Media Contact:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
For more information, visit or . For investor information, visit . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , or .
Note:
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
http://www.facebook.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
Xerox and the sphere of connectivity design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
 


