FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20100108170257.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 27, 2009, Xerox Corporation ("Xerox") entered into a debt commitment letter pursuant to which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. committed to provide to Xerox unsecured bridge financing of up to $3.0 billion in connection with the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS"). On December 4, 2009, the debt commitment of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. under this commitment letter was reduced to $500 million. On January 8, 2010, the amount of the remaining commitment was further reduced to $0 at the election of Xerox because Xerox has sufficient cash on hand and availability under its existing revolving credit facilities to complete the ACS acquisition, and the debt commitment letter was terminated.
Termination of the debt commitment letter effectively satisfies the condition precedent to the closing of the ACS acquisition relating to the availability of the debt financing.
This Current Report on Form 8-K may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 and ACS's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
The proposed merger transaction involving Xerox and ACS will be submitted to the respective stockholders of Xerox and ACS for their consideration. In connection with the proposed merger, Xerox filed with the SEC, and the SEC declared effective on December 23, 2009, a registration statement on Form S-4 that included a joint proxy statement of Xerox and ACS that also constitutes a prospectus of Xerox and each of the companies may be filing with the SEC other documents regarding the proposed transaction. Xerox has mailed the joint proxy statement/prospectus to its stockholders. Xerox and ACS urge investors and security holders to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction before making any voting or investment decision because it contains important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about Xerox and ACS, without charge, at the SEC's Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). Copies of the joint proxy statement/prospectus and the filings with the SEC that will be incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, without charge, from Xerox's website, http://www.xerox.com, under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings". You may also obtain these documents, without charge, from ACS's website, http://www.acs-inc.com, under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings".
Xerox, ACS and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the respective stockholders of Xerox and ACS in favor of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed participants in the solicitation of the respective stockholders of Xerox and ACS in connection with the proposed merger are set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC. You can find information about Xerox's executive officers and directors in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 6, 2009. You can find information about ACS's executive officers and directors in its annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on August 27, 2009. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Xerox and ACS websites using the contact information above.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
 
Date: January 8, 2010


