FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20100722065533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 22, 2010, Registrant released its second quarter 2010 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Forward Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 as well as in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: July 22, 2010
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xerox Reports Second-Quarter 2010 Earnings;
Increases Full-Year Guidance
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., July 22, 2010  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today second-quarter 2010 results that include adjusted earnings per share of 24 cents and $678 million in operating cash flow. Adjusted EPS excludes 8 cents from restructuring charges and amortization of intangibles as well as acquisition-related and litigation costs, resulting in GAAP EPS of 16 cents.
"Our second-quarter results reflect strong across-the-board performance in driving revenue growth, generating cash and expanding earnings," said Ursula Burns, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "Through the first half of the year, we've made excellent progress in scaling our services business and strengthening our leadership in the marketplace. We expect this progress will continue, positioning us well to increase our earnings expectations for the full year."
Second-quarter revenue of $5.5 billion was up 48 percent including a 1 point negative impact from currency. On a pro-forma basis, with ACS in the company's 2009 results, total revenue grew 2 percent or 3 percent in constant currency. Revenue from technology, which represents the sale of document systems as well as the supplies, technical service and financing of products, was up 3 percent or 4 percent in constant currency. Total install activity for Xerox equipment was up 45 percent reflecting strong demand across all segments including a 56 percent increase in entry-level printers and multifunction devices. Revenue from services was up 1 percent on a pro-forma basis, and represents the company's business process, IT and document outsourcing offerings.
"We're seeing consistent trends in the marketplace that indicate the benefit of our broad product line and expanded services as well as modest economic improvements," added Burns. "Demand continues to improve for Xerox technology, especially in developing markets and from small and mid-sized businesses. With annuity revenue representing 83 percent of total revenue and signings for Xerox services up 12 percent, our business is strengthened by multi-year contracts for business process and document management."
In February, Xerox closed on its acquisition of business process and IT outsourcing firm, Affiliated Computer Services (ACS). The resulting joint sales activities between Xerox and ACS as well as increased interest in the company's diverse portfolio of outsourcing offerings led to a significant second-quarter increase in the pipeline for services contracts.
Second-quarter gross margin was 34.8 percent, and selling, administrative and general expenses were 21.1 percent of revenue. On a pro-forma basis, operating margin of 10.1 percent was up nearly one point, driven by improvements in both gross margin and SAG as a percent of revenue.
The $678 million in second-quarter operating cash flow contributed to $1.1 billion in cash flow for the first half of the year. The company reiterated its expectations to deliver $2.6 billion in operating cash for the full year.
For the third quarter, Xerox expects GAAP earnings in the range of 14 to 16 cents per share. Third-quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be 19 to 21 cents per share. Full-year GAAP earnings are expected to be 47 to 51 cents per share. Full-year adjusted EPS is expected to be 88 to 92 cents, an increase from the company's previous guidance of 75 to 85 cents per share.
About Xerox
Xerox Corporation is a $22 billion leading global enterprise for business process and . Through its broad portfolio of technology and , Xerox provides the essential back-office support that clears the way for clients to focus on what they do best: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox provides leading-edge , services, software and for and of any size. Through ACS, A Xerox Company, which Xerox acquired in February 2010, Xerox also offers extensive and , including data processing, HR benefits management, finance support and customer relationship management services for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The 130,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit , or . For investor information, visit .
document management
services
real business
document technology
genuine Xerox supplies
graphic communication
office printing environments
business process outsourcing
IT outsourcing services
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.acs-inc.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
Media Contact:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
This release refers to the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Non GAAP Measures:
 
 
 
Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 and our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , or
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.facebook.com/xeroxcorp
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts.
Xerox and the sphere of connectivity design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
 
 
Financial Review
Summary
Revenues
 
Second quarter 2010 total revenues increased 48% compared to the second quarter 2009. Our consolidated 2010 results include the results of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. ("ACS"). On a pro-forma
3
basis, second quarter 2010 total revenue grew 2%. Currency had a 1-percentage point negative impact on total revenues in the quarter. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
Second quarter 2010 net income attributable to Xerox was $227 million, or $0.16 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis, net income attributable to Xerox was $342 million, or $0.24 per diluted share.
Second quarter 2009 net income attributable to Xerox was $140 million, or $0.16 per diluted share. On a comparable adjusted basis, net income attributable to Xerox was $158 million, or $0.18 per diluted share.
The adjustments to net income include:
 
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I. See Non-GAAP financial measures for calculation of adjusted EPS.
 
Notes for Financial Review:
 
 
Operations Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Profit to Pre-tax Income.
Technology
Our Technology segment includes the sale of document systems and supplies, provision of technical service and financing of products.
Revenue
 
Second quarter 2010 Technology revenue of $2,555 million increased 3%, including a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
Segment Profit
Second quarter 2010 Technology profit of $273 million increased $25 million from second quarter 2009, predominantly reflecting gross profit flow-through from higher revenue.
Installs
Entry
 
 
 
Mid-Range
 
 
High-End
 
 
Note: Install activity percentages include installations for Document Outsourcing and the Xerox-branded product shipments to GIS. Descriptions of "Entry", "Mid-Range" and "High-End" can be found in Appendix II.
Services
Our Services segment comprises three service offerings: Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO"), Document Outsourcing ("DO") and Information Technology Outsourcing ("ITO").
Revenue
Second quarter 2010 Services total revenue of $2,529 million increased 198% or 1% on a pro-forma
1
basis. Currency did not impact total revenues in the quarter.
 
 
 
Segment Profit
Second quarter 2010 Services profit of $319 million increased $258 million, or $37 million on a pro-forma
1
basis, from second quarter 2009 driven by BPO revenue growth and lower cost and expense driven by restructuring and synergy savings.
 
Metrics
Pipeline
Our BPO and ITO sales pipeline, including synergy opportunities, grew approximately 29% over the second quarter 2009. This sales pipeline includes the Total Contract Value ("TCV") of new business opportunities that potentially could be contracted within the next six months and excludes business opportunities with estimated annual recurring revenue in excess of $100 million. The DO sales pipeline grew approximately 7% over the second quarter 2009. The DO sales pipeline includes all active deals with $10 million or greater in TCV.
Signings
Signings ("Signings") are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals. Services Signings were strong with an estimated $4.2 billion in TCV for the quarter. Combined with the previous three quarters; the trailing twelve month growth was 12% as compared to the comparable prior year period.
 
 
 
Signings growth was driven by strong Signings in both our BPO and DO businesses. We signed significant new business in the following areas:
 
 
 
Note: TCV is estimated total revenue for future contracts for pipeline or signed contracts for Signings as applicable.
Other
Revenue
Second quarter 2010 Other revenue of $424 million increased 5%, including a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency. This was driven by an increase in GIS's network integration and electronic presentation systems and higher paper and supplies sales. Paper comprised approximately 60% of the second quarter 2010 and 2009 Other segment revenue.
Segment Profit
Second quarter 2010 Other loss of $93 million increased $13 million from second quarter 2009, driven primarily by higher interest expense that offsets gross profit flow-through from higher revenue.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Gross Margin
 
Second quarter 2010 total gross margin of 34.8% decreased 5.4-percentage points and increased 0.4-percentage points on a pro-forma
1
basis as compared to the second quarter 2009 and included a 0.3-percentage point benefit from a duties refund as a result of a favorable settlement of a European import classification claim.
Sales gross margin increased 1.1-percentage points and increased 1.4-percentage points compared to the second quarter 2009 on a pro-forma
1
basis and included the benefit from the duties refund. The positive impact of cost improvements and favorable mix more than offset the impact of price declines and unfavorable year-over-year transaction currency.
Service, outsourcing and rentals margin decreased 10-percentage points and was flat compared to the second quarter 2009 on a pro-forma
1
basis. On a pro-forma basis, positive mix offset the impact of unfavorable year-over-year transaction currency.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
 
RD&E of $194 million in the second quarter 2010 was $8 million lower than the second quarter 2009 reflecting the benefits from restructuring and productivity improvements. We invest in technological research and development, particularly in color, software and services. We believe that our R&D spending is sufficient to remain technologically competitive. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
 
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
 
SAG expenses of $1,163 million in the second quarter 2010 were $150 million higher than the second quarter 2009 and $9 million higher on a pro-forma
1
basis, including a $5 million favorable impact from currency. The pro-forma SAG expense increase reflects the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the second quarter 2010, we recorded an additional $11 million of net restructuring and asset impairment charges, which included approximately $16 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 300 employees primarily in North America. These costs were partially offset by $6 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2010, for all programs was $197 million, of which approximately $179 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Acquisition Related Costs
Costs of $15 million were incurred during the second quarter 2010 in connection with our acquisition of ACS. These costs include $11 million of transaction costs, which represent external costs directly related to completing the acquisition of ACS and primarily reflected legal costs associated with the recently settled ACS shareholders litigation. The remainder of the acquisition related costs represents external incremental costs directly related to the integration of ACS and Xerox. These costs include expenditures for consulting, systems integration and corporate communication services.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
During the second quarter 2010, we recorded $85 million of expense related to the amortization of intangible assets, which is $70 million higher than second quarter 2009. The increase primarily reflects the amortization of intangibles associated with our acquisition of ACS. As a result of the ACS acquisition, amortization of acquired intangibles for 2010 is expected to be approximately $250 million higher than the prior year.
 
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 130,800 at June 30, 2010 increased approximately 77,200 from year-end 2009 primarily due to additional headcount acquired with the ACS acquisition.
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Second quarter 2010 non-financing interest expense of $92 million was $29 million higher than second quarter 2009 due to higher debt balances primarily as a result of our $2 billion Senior Note offering used to finance the acquisition of ACS.
ACS Shareholders Litigation Settlement
Second quarter 2010 ACS shareholders litigation settlement expense of $36 million reflects the previously disclosed settlement of claims by ACS shareholders arising out of Xerox's acquisition of ACS and is net of insurance proceeds.
All Other Expenses, Net
Second quarter 2010 all other expenses, net decreased $12 million from second quarter 2009 driven in part by lower interest expense on Brazil tax and labor contingencies.
Income Taxes
 
 
Second quarter 2010 effective tax rate was 35.0%. On an adjusted basis, second quarter 2010 tax rate was 31.9%
3
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to a tax benefit associated with the utilization of foreign tax credits partially offset by a tax expense associated with tax law changes.
Second quarter 2009 effective tax rate was 29.9%. On an adjusted basis, the second quarter 2009 tax rate was 30.7%
3
, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the net tax benefits from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the geographical mix of income and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and available foreign tax credits. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable.
We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remaining quarters of 2010 will be approximately 32%, excluding the effects of any discrete events.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates of $28 million improved $19 million compared to second quarter 2009, which reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox's higher net income driven by higher revenue and cost improvements. Second quarter 2010 equity income includes charges of $5 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring compared to $9 million of charges for the second quarter 2009.
 
Notes for Operations Review:
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $678 million in the second quarter 2010 reflecting the inclusion of ACS as well as approximately $20 million of cash outflows for acquisition related costs. The $69 million increase in cash from second quarter 2009 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $130 million in the second quarter 2010. The $94 million decrease in cash from second quarter 2009 was primarily due to an increase in capital expenditures (including internal use software) of $88 million as a result of the inclusion of ACS in 2010.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $457 million in the second quarter 2010. The $539 million decrease in cash from second quarter 2009 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our Total finance assets, net associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
The reduction of $682 million in Total finance assets, net includes unfavorable currency of $383 million.
 
The following summarizes our debt as of June 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
 
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation, therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
 
Sales of Accounts Receivables
We have facilities in the U.S., Canada and several countries in Europe that enable us to sell, on an on-going basis, certain accounts receivables without recourse to third-parties. The accounts receivables sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. Accounts receivables sales activity for the second quarter 2010 and 2009 were as follows:
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 and our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2010 second quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
To better understand the trends in our business and the impact of the ACS acquisition, we believe it is necessary to adjust the following amounts determined in accordance with GAAP to exclude the effects of the certain items as well as their related income tax effects:
 
 
 
The above have been adjusted for the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
Pro-forma Basis
To better understand the trends in our business, we discuss our 2010 operating results by comparing them against adjusted 2009 results which include ACS historical results for the comparable period. Accordingly, we have included ACS's 2009 estimated results for the comparable period, April 1st through June 30th in 2009 in our reported 2009 results and, in the context of our first quarter and year-to-date results from February 5, 2009. We refer to comparisons against these adjusted 2009 results as "pro-forma" basis comparisons. ACS 2009 historical results have been adjusted to reflect fair value adjustments related to property, equipment and computer software as well as customer contract costs. In addition, adjustments were made for deferred revenue, exited businesses and other material non-recurring costs associated with the acquisition. We believe comparisons on a pro-forma basis are more meaningful than the actual comparisons given the size and nature of the ACS acquisition. We believe the pro-forma basis comparisons allow investors to have better understanding and additional perspective of the expected trends in our business as well as the impact of the ACS acquisition on the Company's operations.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods' results against the corresponding prior periods' results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
 
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth on the following tables:
Net Income and EPS reconciliation:
 
Average shares for the calculation of adjusted EPS were 1,446 million and include 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and therefore excludes the quarterly dividends of $6 million. On a quarterly basis we evaluate the dilutive effect of the Series A convertible preferred stock on an "if converted" basis.
 
*Q3 2010: Average shares exclude 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock because to include them would be anti-dilutive. However, the quarterly dividend of $6 million associated with the preferred stock has been taken into account in the EPS guidance range.
*FY 2010: Average shares include a pro-rata portion of the 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock. As a result, the 2010 dividends of $21 million have been excluded when calculating the full-year EPS guidance range.
Note: we evaluate the dilutive effect of the Series A convertible preferred stock on an "if-converted" basis.
 
Effective Tax reconciliation:
 
Operating Income / Margin reconciliation:
 
 
Pro-forma:
Total Xerox:
 
 
:
NOTES
 
Total Xerox:
 
 
:
NOTES
Services Segment:
 
 
:
NOTES
 
APPENDIX I
Xerox Corporation
Earnings per Common Share
 
 
APPENDIX II
Xerox Corporation
Reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-Tax Income
 
Our reportable segments are aligned to how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Technology, Services and Other.
 
 


