FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20110722065010.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 22, 2011, Registrant released its second quarter 2011 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Forward Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; our ability to expand equipment placements and to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; development of new products and services; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including saving from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: July 22, 2011
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xerox Reports Second-Quarter 2011 Earnings
 
 
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., July 22, 2011  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today second-quarter 2011 results that include adjusted earnings per share of 27 cents. Adjusted EPS excludes 5 cents primarily related to the amortization of intangibles, resulting in GAAP EPS of 22 cents.
"During the second quarter, our disciplined focus on scaling our services business and delivering operational improvements helped to increase bottom-line results and generate operating cash, positioning us well to increase our earnings expectations for the full-year," said Ursula Burns, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer.
Second-quarter revenue of $5.6 billion was up 2 percent or down 1 percent in constant currency. Revenue from technology, representing the sale of document systems, supplies, technical service and financing of products, was flat or down 4 percent in constant currency. This was primarily due to supply constraints resulting from the natural disaster in Japan. The company noted that the impact on costs and revenue from the supply chain-related challenges were expected in the second quarter and that the situation is improving. "We're seeing steady progress and making all the necessary investments to respond to customers' needs," said Burns. "As a result, we are on track to reduce backlog while meeting new demand in the third quarter, and we remain confident we'll return to normal operations in the fourth quarter."
Revenue from services was up 6 percent or 4 percent in constant currency, reflecting growth in business process and document outsourcing that offset a decline this quarter in IT outsourcing. Signings for Xerox's services totaled $3.5 billion in the second quarter, up more than 15 percent from last quarter and down 10 percent on a trailing 12-month basis due to longer lead times for signing certain multi-year outsourcing contracts and the cyclicality of large deals.
"Our leadership in managed print services contributed to 10 percent revenue growth in our document outsourcing business, and our diverse offerings in business process outsourcing resulted in 9 percent BPO growth," added Burns. "As important, our pipeline remains very strong  up 21 percent  helping to fuel our healthy annuity stream for the long term."
Second-quarter gross margin was 33.4 percent, and selling, administrative and general expenses were 19.9 percent of revenue. Operating margin of 10.4 percent was up 0.3 points from the second-quarter 2010.
Xerox generated $347 million in operating cash flow during the second quarter. For the full year, the company lowered guidance to $2 billion to $2.3 billion in operating cash flow. Xerox reiterated its plan to use $1 billion in available cash for modestly-sized acquisitions and share repurchase. The company expects to resume its stock buyback program in the third quarter and plans to repurchase approximately $700 million of stock through the second half of this year.
Xerox expects third-quarter 2011 GAAP earnings of 20 cents to 22 cents per share. Third-quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be 24 cents to 26 cents per share.
The company raised its full-year 2011 GAAP earnings expectations to 91 cents to 96 cents per share. Full-year adjusted earnings are expected to be $1.07 to $1.12 per share.
About Xerox
Xerox Corporation is a $22 billion leading global enterprise for business process and document management. Through its broad portfolio of technology and services, Xerox provides the essential back-office support that clears the way for clients to focus on what they do best: their real business. Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox provides leading-edge document technology, services, software and genuine Xerox supplies for graphic communication and office printing environments of any size. Through ACS, A Xerox Company, which Xerox acquired in February 2010, Xerox also offers extensive business process outsourcing and IT outsourcing services, including data processing, HR benefits management, finance support, and customer relationship management services for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The 134,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit http://www.xerox.com, http://news.xerox.com, http://www.realbusiness.com or http://www.acs-inc.com. For investor information, visit http://www.xerox.com/investor.
This release refers to the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Non- GAAP Measures:
 
 
 
Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may
 
cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; our ability to expand equipment placements and to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; development of new products and services; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Media Contact:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
To receive RSS news feeds, visit . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , , , , .
Note:
http://news.xerox.com/pr/xerox/rss.aspx
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxoffice
http://twitter.com/xeroxproduction
http://twitter.com/servicesatxerox
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
XEROX, XEROX and Design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
 
 
Financial Review
Revenues
 
Second quarter 2011 total revenues increased 2% compared to the second quarter 2010, including a 3-percentage point positive impact from currency. Equipment and supplies revenues in the second quarter 2011 were negatively impacted by the supply constraints on products and supplies, particularly color, sourced from Fuji Xerox ("FX") as a result of the natural disaster in Japan in the first quarter 2011. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An analysis of the change in revenue for each business segment is included in the "Segment Review" section.
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Summary of Key Financial Ratios
The following is a summary of key financial ratios used to assess our performance:
 
Second quarter 2011 operating margin
3
of 10.4% increased 0.3-percentage points as compared to the second quarter 2010. The increase was primarily due to disciplined cost and expense management.
Gross Margin
Gross margin of 33.4% decreased 1.4-percentage points, as compared to the second quarter 2010. The decrease was driven by the ramping of new services contracts, the line of business mix within the Services segment, and the higher mix of Services revenue. Price erosion was offset by the impact of cost productivities and restructuring savings.
Technology gross margin decreased by 1.3-percentage points as compared to the second quarter 2010, due to a lower supplies mix and additional freight and logistics costs related to equipment and supplies sourced from Japan.
Services gross margin decreased by 1.1-percentage points as compared to the second quarter 2010, due primarily to the ramping of new services contracts and line of business mix.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
Second quarter 2011 RD&E as a percent of revenue of 3.1% decreased 0.4-percentage points from the second quarter 2010. In addition to lower spending, the decrease was driven by the positive mix impact of the continued growth in Services revenue.
 
RD&E of $175 million in the second quarter 2011 was $19 million lower than the second quarter 2010, reflecting the impact of restructuring and productivity improvements. Innovation is one of our core strengths and we continue to invest at levels that enhance this core strength, particularly in color, software and services. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
SAG as a percent of revenue of 19.9% decreased 1.2-percentage points from the second quarter 2010. In addition to spending reductions including lower compensation, the decrease was driven by positive mix impact from the continued growth in Services revenue, which historically has a lower SAG percent of revenue.
SAG Expenses of $1,119 million in the second quarter 2011 were $44 million lower than the second quarter 2010. There was a $39 million unfavorable impact from currency for the quarter. SAG expenses reflect the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the second quarter 2011, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment credits of $9 million, primarily resulting from net reversals and changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives. During the second quarter 2010, we recorded $11 million of net restructuring and asset impairment charges, which included approximately $16 million of severance costs partially offset by $6 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2011, for all programs was $179 million, of which approximately $168 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Acquisition Related Costs
Acquisition related costs were $15 million in the second quarter 2010 primarily reflecting $11 million of transaction costs, which represented external costs directly related to completing the acquisition of ACS.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
During the second quarter 2011, we recorded $87 million of expense related to the amortization of intangible assets, which is $2 million higher than second quarter 2010.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 133,500 at June 30, 2011 decreased approximately 3,000 from year-end 2010, primarily due to restructuring related actions more than offsetting the impact of acquisitions.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Second quarter 2011 non-financing interest expense of $64 million was $28 million lower than second quarter 2010 reflecting a lower average debt balance due to the redemption of the $550 million 2013 Senior Notes in October 2010 and other repayments of debt, as well as the benefit of lower borrowing costs achieved as a result of utilizing the commercial paper program.
ACS Shareholders Litigation Settlement
The second quarter 2010 includes litigation settlement expense of $36 million reflecting the settlement of claims by ACS shareholders arising out of Xerox's acquisition of ACS in 2010, net of insurance proceeds.
Loss on Early Extinguishment of Liability
In May 2011, Xerox Capital Trust I ("Trust I"), our wholly-owned subsidiary trust, redeemed the $650 million 8.0% preferred securities due in 2027. We incurred a pre-tax loss on the early extinguishment of this liability of $33 million ($20 million after-tax), representing the call premium of approximately $10 million as well as the write-off of unamortized debt costs and other liability carrying value adjustments of $23 million.
 
Income Taxes
Second quarter 2011 effective tax rate was 26.9%. On an adjusted basis
3
, second quarter 2011 tax rate was 29.6%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to our foreign income being taxed at lower rates or offset by available foreign tax credits.
Second quarter 2010 effective tax rate was 35.0%. On an adjusted basis
3
, the second quarter 2010 tax rate was 31.9%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to a tax benefit associated with the utilization of foreign tax credits partially offset by a tax expense associated with tax law changes.
Xerox operations are widely dispersed. The statutory tax rate in most non U.S. jurisdictions is lower than the combined U.S. and state tax rate. The amount of income subject to these lower foreign rates relative to the amount of U.S. income will impact our effective tax rate. However, no one country outside of the U.S. is a significant factor to our overall effective tax rate. Certain foreign income is subject to U.S. tax net of any available foreign tax credits. Our full year estimated effective tax rate includes a benefit of approximately 8 percentage points from these non U.S. operations which is comparable to 2010.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remaining quarters of 2011 will be approximately 31%, excluding the effects of intangibles amortization and discrete events.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates, which primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox net income, was $34 million, an increase of $6 million compared to second quarter 2010. Second quarter 2011 equity income includes charges of $4 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring compared to $5 million of charges for the second quarter 2010.
Net Income
Second quarter 2011 net income attributable to Xerox was $319 million, or $0.22 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
3
, net income attributable to Xerox was $393 million, or $0.27 per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 adjustments to net income include amortization of intangible assets and the loss on the early extinguishment of liability.
Second quarter 2010 net income attributable to Xerox was $227 million, or $0.16 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
3
, net income attributable to Xerox was $342 million, or $0.24 per diluted share.
The Net Income and EPS reconciliation table in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section contains the second quarter adjustments to net income.
 
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.See Non-GAAP financial measures for calculation of adjusted EPS.
Segment Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Profit to Pre-tax Income.
Technology
Our Technology segment includes the sale of products and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products.
Revenue
 
Second quarter 2011 Technology revenue of $2,552 million was flat in comparison to second quarter 2010, including a 4-percentage point positive impact from currency. Revenue results included the following:
 
 
 
Segment Margin
Second quarter 2011 Technology segment margin of 11.8% increased 1.1 percentage points from second quarter 2010. Lower cost and expense from restructuring savings and lower bad debt expense more than offset the gross margin decline.
Installs
Entry
 
 
 
 
Mid-Range
 
 
High-End
 
 
Note: Install activity percentages include installations for Document Outsourcing and the Xerox-branded products shipped to GIS. "Entry", "Mid-Range" and "High-End" are defined in Appendix II.
Services
Our Services segment comprises three service offerings: Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO"), Information Technology Outsourcing ("ITO") and Document Outsourcing ("DO").
Revenue
Second quarter 2011 Services total revenue of $2,672 million increased 6%, including a 2-percentage point positive impact from currency.
 
 
 
Segment Margin
Second quarter 2011 Services segment margin of 12.1% declined 0.5-percentage points from second quarter 2010. The decline was driven primarily by lower gross margins resulting from the ramp of new business.
Metrics
Pipeline
Our total services sales pipeline, including synergy opportunities, grew 21% over the second quarter 2010. This sales pipeline includes the Total Contract Value ("TCV") of new business opportunities that potentially could be contracted within the next six months and excludes business opportunities with estimated annual recurring revenue in excess of $100 million.
Signings
Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Services signings were an estimated $3.5 billion in TCV for the quarter.
 
 
 
Combined with the previous three quarters, the signings decreased 10% on a trailing twelve month basis as compared to the comparable prior year period. Signings increased sequentially from first quarter 2011 by over 15%.
The decline in signings from second quarter 2010 was driven by decreases in BPO and ITO signings partially offset by growth in DO signings. The decrease in BPO and ITO signings was impacted by the cyclicality of large deals.
Note: TCV is estimated total revenue for future contracts for pipeline or signed contracts for signings as applicable.
Other
Revenue
Second quarter 2011 Other revenue of $390 million decreased 8%, including a 4-percentage point positive impact from currency due to a decline in paper sales, wide format systems and other supplies partially offset by an increase in network integration and electronic presentation systems. Paper comprised approximately 60% of the second quarter 2011 Other segment revenue.
 
Segment Margin
Second quarter 2011 Other loss of $73 million improved $20 million from second quarter 2010, driven primarily by lower non-financing interest expense.
Notes
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $347 million in the second quarter 2011. The $331 million decrease in cash from second quarter 2010 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $215 million in the second quarter 2011. The $85 million increase in the use of cash from second quarter 2010 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $39 million in the second quarter 2011. The $418 million decrease in the use of cash from second quarter 2010 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our Total finance assets, net associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
The increase of $20 million in Total finance assets, net includes favorable currency of $264 million.
 
The following summarizes our debt:
 
 
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation; therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
Sales of Accounts Receivables
We have facilities in the U.S., Canada and several countries in Europe that enable us to sell to third-parties, on an on-going basis, certain accounts receivable without recourse. The accounts receivables sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. Accounts receivable sales were as follows:
 
 
Subsequent Events
In July 2011, we acquired Education Sales and Marketing, LLC ("ESM"), a leading contact center firm dedicated to school enrollment, for approximately $45 million in cash. ESM will enable us to begin offering broader services to assist post-secondary schools in attracting and retaining the most-qualified students.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; our ability to expand equipment placements and to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; development of new products and services; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2011 second quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
To better understand the trends in our business and the impact of the ACS acquisition, we believe it is necessary to adjust the following amounts determined in accordance with GAAP to exclude the effects of the certain items as well as their related income tax effects. In 2011, adjustments are expected to be limited to the amortization of intangible assets and other discrete items.
Note:
 
 
 
The above have been adjusted for the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the above excluded items, operating income and margin also exclude other expenses, net. Other expenses, net is primarily composed of non-financing interest expense.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods' results against the corresponding prior periods' results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth on the following tables:
 
Net Income and EPS reconciliation:
 
 
Average shares for the calculation of adjusted EPS for the second quarter 2011 were 1,465 million and include 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and therefore the quarterly dividend of $6 million is excluded. Second quarter 2010 shares of 1,446 also include the 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and the quarterly dividend of $6 million is excluded. We evaluate the dilutive effect of the Series A convertible preferred stock on an "if-converted" basis.
2011 Guidance:
 
 
Effective Tax reconciliation:
 
 
 
Operating Income / Margin reconciliation
 
 
 
APPENDIX I
Xerox Corporation
Earnings per Common Share
 
 
APPENDIX II
Xerox Corporation
Reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-Tax Income
 
Our reportable segments are aligned to how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Technology, Services and Other.
 
 


