FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20111207170500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 7, 2011, pursuant to its authority under Registrant's Unfunded Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP"), the Compensation Committee of Registrant's Board of Directors authorized the amendment of SERP to freeze, effective January 1, 2013, all future accruals of benefits under SERP. Certain of Registrant's Named Executive Officers participate in SERP. The SERP amendment is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
 
Date: December 7, 2011
 

Exhibit 10(g)(5)
WHEREAS, Xerox Corporation (the "Company") has established the Xerox Corporation Unfunded Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, which is presently set forth in the "2007 Amendment and Restatement of the Xerox Corporation Unfunded Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan," as amended by Amendment to Certain Deferred Compensation Plans Maintained by Xerox Corporation, dated as of December 4, 2007, and Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 (the "Plan"), and
WHEREAS, the Company desires to amend the Plan,
NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
1. Section 6 shall be amended by adding at the end thereof new Subsection (G), which shall read in its entirety as follows:
"(G) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan (including but not limited to Section 8), no benefits may be earned under this Plan after December 31, 2012, and no benefit may be based on compensation earned or services performed after December 31, 2012."
The foregoing amendment is effective as of the date stated herein. In all other respects, the Plan remains unchanged.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be signed as of this 7
th
day of December, 2011.
 


