FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20110510071714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 10, 2011 Registrant held its annual Investor Conference in New York City. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report is a copy of Registrant's press release dated May 10, 2011 regarding the Investor Conference.
The information contained in Item 7.01 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; our ability to expand equipment placements and to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; development of new products and services; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
 
Date: May 10, 2011
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xerox CEO Details Success of Services-Led, Technology-Driven Business; Outlines Strong Financial Position to Deliver Shareholder Value
NEW YORK, May 10, 2011  At its annual investor conference to be held here today, (NYSE: XRX) is sharing its strategy to capture key growth opportunities in and and deliver long-term value for shareholders.
Xerox Corporation
business services
document management
"This is the new Xerox. Today, we provide the most diverse set of in the industry, offer the broadest portfolio of , have a growing global customer base, and continue to invest in world-class that brings differentiated value to customers," said , chairman and chief executive officer, Xerox Corporation. "The disciplined execution of our strategy is creating shareholder value through the strength of our solid annuity-based business, expanding earnings and strong cash generation."
services
document technology
innovation
Ursula Burns
Delivering Shareholder Value
During the conference, Xerox will outline its financial profile, highlighting key growth drivers that include:
 
 
 
The company is reiterating its expectations for full-year 2011 to deliver revenue growth of 6-8 percent or 3-5 percent on a pro-forma basis and GAAP earnings per share of 89-94 cents or $1.05-$1.10 on an adjusted basis. In 2012, Xerox expects revenue will grow in the range of 4-6 percent and adjusted EPS will increase to $1.18 - $1.28.
Xerox will also outline details on the cash-generating strength of its business model, reiterating expectations to deliver $2.5 billion in operating cash flow this year. In 2012, Xerox expects to generate $2.6-$2.9 billion in cash from operations.
"Over the next five years, we expect to generate more than $10 billion in free cash flow, reflecting the benefit of our annuity-driven earnings growth and continued operational improvements," said , chief financial officer, Xerox Corporation. "We remain committed to creating value for our shareholders by growing our business organically and through acquisitions, delivering dividends and buying back stock. In 2011 and 2012, we're targeting to use about 70 percent of our available cash for share repurchase."
Luca Maestri
Services Led; Technology Driven Strategy
"Throughout enterprises of any size and in any industry, we are providing the back office support that results in reduced costs, more productivity, and efficient, simplified ways of getting work done," said Burns.
She noted that the ultimate outcome for clients is freeing up time and resources better spent on their core business. It is a powerful value proposition that is reflected in how Xerox serves the marketplace and how the company is expanding its business through these areas:
 
In the first quarter of 2011, services revenue grew 5 percent on a pro-forma basis along with a 29 percent increase in the total pipeline. Recent key services signings include a 10-year, $500 million contract to manage clinical and technology applications for clients using remote hosting services. Xerox also secured a $200 million, five-year agreement with to provide managed information technology services.
Allscripts
MGM Resorts International
 
 
 
 
About Xerox
Xerox Corporation is a $22 billion leading global enterprise for business process and . Through its broad portfolio of technology and , Xerox provides the essential back-office support that clears the way for clients to focus on what they do best: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox provides leading-edge , services, and for and of any size. Through ACS, A Xerox Company, which Xerox acquired in February 2010, Xerox also offers extensive and , including data processing, HR benefits management, finance support, and customer relationship management services for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The 134,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit , , or . For investor information, visit .
document management
services
real business
document technology
software
genuine Xerox supplies
graphic communication
office printing environments
business process outsourcing
IT outsourcing services
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.realbusiness.com
http://www.acs-inc.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
This release refers to the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Non- GAAP Measures:
 
 
 
Refer to the APPENDIX entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures.
Media Contacts:
Carl Langsenkamp, Xerox Corporation, +1-585-423-5782,
carl.langsenkamp@xerox.com
Ken Ericson, Xerox Corporation, +1-410-571-0161,
ken.ericson@acs-inc.com
 To receive RSS news feeds, visit . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , ,
Note:
http://news.xerox.com/pr/xerox/rss.aspx
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxoffice
 
, , , , .
http://twitter.com/xeroxproduction
http://twitter.com/servicesatxerox
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
XEROX, XEROX and Design, and ColorQube are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. XMPie and the XMPie logo are trademarks of XMPie, A Xerox Company. The names of actual companies and products mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners.
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; our ability to expand equipment placements and to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; development of new products and services; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Forward Looking Statements:
APPENDIX: Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below.
To better understand the trends in our business and the impact of the ACS acquisition, we believe it is necessary to adjust EPS guidance for the full-year 2011 and 2012 determined in accordance with GAAP to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related income tax effects:
Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS):
 
 
To better understand the trends in our business, we discuss our 2011 revenue growth by comparing 2011 revenue against adjusted 2010 revenues which include ACS historical revenues for the comparable period in 2011. We refer to these comparisons as "pro-forma" basis comparisons. ACS 2010 historical revenues for the period January 1st through February 5th 2010 have been adjusted to reflect adjustments for deferred revenue and certain non-recurring product sales. We believe comparisons on a pro-forma basis are more meaningful than the actual comparisons given the size and nature of the ACS acquisition. We believe the pro-forma basis comparisons allow investors to have better understanding and additional perspective of the expected trends in our business as well as the impact of the ACS acquisition on the Company's operations.
Pro-forma Revenue Growth:
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust Cash Flows from Operations to subtract amounts for capital expenditures including internal use software. Management believes this measure gives investors an additional perspective on cash flow from operating activities in excess of amounts required for reinvestment in long-lived assets. It provides a measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, dividends and share repurchase. It also is used to measure our yield on market capitalization.
Free Cash Flow:
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods' results against the corresponding prior periods' results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
Note: The non-GAAP reconciliation information for 2012 guidance measures is not available at this time.
 


