FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20121023065043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 23, 2012, Registrant released its third quarter 2012 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; our ability to recover capital investments; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012 and our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: October 23, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xerox Reports Third-Quarter 2012 Earnings
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., Oct. 23, 2012  Xerox (NYSE: XRX) announced today third-quarter 2012 adjusted earnings per share of 25 cents, which excludes 4 cents related to the amortization of intangibles, resulting in GAAP earnings of 21 cents per share.
In the third quarter, total revenue of $5.4 billion was down 3 percent or down 1 percent in constant currency.
Revenue from the company's services business was up 6 percent in constant currency, partially offsetting a 7 percent constant currency decline in technology revenue, which represents the sale of document systems, supplies, technical service and financing of products.
During the third quarter, upfront investments in new services contracts as well as the impact of government budgetary pressures on existing contracts led to an 8.6 percent operating margin, down 1 point from third-quarter 2011. Gross margin was 31 percent, and selling, administrative and general expenses were 19.4 percent of revenue.
"Our third-quarter performance aligns with shifts in our business as services become a larger proportion of our revenue, and reflects the dynamics of a challenging economy that is creating cost pressures for large enterprises and governments," said Ursula Burns, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer.
"Steady growth in services is consistent with our strategy. Scaling our offerings in business process, IT and document outsourcing gives us a diversified portfolio that helps mitigate declines in equipment sales and supplies," she added. "In our technology business, we benefit from healthy operating margins that support our bottom-line performance. We're accelerating growth in print-related markets that are expanding, like serving more small and mid-size businesses through indirect channels, and we're maintaining our profitable leadership in markets that are contracting."
In the company's services business, constant currency revenue from business process outsourcing grew 9 percent, IT outsourcing grew 6 percent and document outsourcing, which includes the company's leading managed print services offerings, was up 4 percent.
"While we're pleased with the continued revenue growth trajectory in services, the profitability of a few contracts has been hampered by constraints in government spending, delaying implementation on committed projects that required our upfront investments," said Burns. "We believe this is a short-term consequence of current macro and political conditions. But, we remain cautious, and we are focused on reducing costs to absorb the impact and improve margins while investing in key areas of growth and delivering strong cash flow."
The company generated $594 million in cash from operations and is on track to deliver full-year operating cash flow of $2 billion to $2.3 billion as well as repurchase $900 million to $1.1 billion in Xerox stock during the year.
During the fourth quarter, Xerox is planning to take a restructuring charge in the range of $50 million to $100 million. Until the plans are finalized, the company's EPS guidance excludes this charge. Xerox expects fourth-quarter GAAP earnings of 29 cents to 31 cents per share. Fourth-quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be 33 cents to 35 cents per share. As a result, full-year 2012 GAAP earnings per share are expected to be 92 cents to 94 cents and full-year adjusted earnings per share are expected to be $1.07 to $1.09.
About Xerox
With sales approaching $23 billion, (NYSE: XRX) is the world's leading enterprise for and . Its technology, expertise and enable workplaces  from small businesses to large global enterprises  to simplify the way work gets done so they operate more effectively and focus more on what matters most: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox offers and , including data processing, , , , , and for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The company also provides extensive leading-edge , services, and for and of any size. The 140,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit , or . For investor information, visit .
Xerox
business process
document management
services
real business
business process outsourcing
IT outsourcing services
healthcare solutions
HR benefits management
finance support
transportation solutions
customer relationship management services
document technology
software
genuine Xerox supplies
graphic communication
office printing environments
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.realbusiness.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
Non- GAAP Measures:
This release refers to the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic
 
conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; our ability to recover capital investments; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012 and our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Media Contacts:
Karen Arena, Xerox, +1-203-849-5521,
karen.arena@xerox.com
Ken Ericson, Xerox, +1-410-571-0161,
kenneth.ericson@xerox.com
To receive RSS news feeds, visit . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views visit , , , .
Note:
http://news.xerox.com/pr/xerox/rss.aspx
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://realbusinessatxerox.blogs.xerox.com
http://www.facebook.com/XeroxCorp
http://www.youtube.com/XeroxCorp
XEROX, XEROX and Design are trademarks of Xerox in the United States and/or other countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Revenues
 
Reconciliation to Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income:
 
Third quarter 2012 total revenues decreased by 3% compared to the third quarter 2011, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency, and reflected the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consistent with prior quarters, equipment sales within our Services segment continued to grow, driven by migration of customers looking to reduce printing costs by moving to our market leading document outsourcing offering.
Additional analysis of the change in revenue for each business segment is included in the "Segment Review" section.
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Summary of Key Financial Ratios
The following is a summary of key financial ratios used to assess our performance:
 
Operating Margin
Third quarter 2012 operating margin
1
of 8.6% decreased 1-percentage point as compared to the third quarter 2011. The decline, primarily in our Services segment, was due to a decrease in gross margin, partially offset by expense reductions.
Gross Margin
Gross margin of 31.0% decreased 1.7-percentage points as compared to the third quarter 2011. The decrease was driven primarily by the ramping of new services contracts, pressure on government contracts and the higher overall mix of Services revenue.
Services segment gross margin decreased by 2.7-percentage points as compared to the third quarter 2011, driven primarily by the ramping of new services contracts, pressure on government contracts and lower volumes in some areas of the business.
 
Technology segment gross margin increased by 0.7-percentage points as compared to the third quarter 2011. Productivity improvements, restructuring savings and a gain recognized on the sale of our interest in a group of U.S. finance receivables (discussed further in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section) more than offset the impact of price declines and unfavorable year-over-year transaction currency.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
Third quarter 2012 RD&E as a percent of revenue of 3% decreased 0.3-percentage points from the third quarter 2011. In addition to lower spending, the decrease was driven by the positive mix impact of the continued growth in Services revenue, which historically has a lower RD&E percent of revenue.
RD&E of $161 million was $22 million lower than the third quarter 2011, reflecting the impact of restructuring and productivity improvements. Innovation continues to be a core strength and we continue to invest at levels that enhance our innovation, particularly in color, software and services. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
SAG as a percent of revenue of 19.4% decreased 0.5-percentage points from the third quarter 2011. The decrease was driven by spending reductions reflecting benefits from restructuring and productivity improvements in addition to the positive mix impact from the continued growth in Services revenue, which historically has a lower SAG percent of revenue.
SAG of $1,050 million was $59 million lower than the third quarter 2011. This included a $23 million favorable impact from currency for the quarter. SAG expenses reflect the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the third quarter 2012, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $14 million, which included approximately $17 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 870 employees primarily in North America. These costs were partially offset by $3 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
During the third quarter 2011, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment credits of $4 million, primarily resulting from net reversals and changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
The restructuring reserve balance as of September 30, 2012 for all programs was $69 million, of which approximately $64 million is expected to be spent over the next 12 months. We expect to incur additional restructuring charges of approximately $50 million-$100 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 for actions and initiatives which have not yet been finalized. The additional restructuring is expected to be more focused on the Services segment.
 
Amortization of Intangible Assets
During the third quarter 2012, we recorded $82 million of expense related to the amortization of intangible assets. This was $5 million lower than third quarter 2011 primarily as a result of the accelerated write-off of the ACS brand name in the fourth quarter 2011.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of approximately 146,000 at September 30, 2012 increased approximately 6,300 from year-end 2011, primarily due to the impact of acquisitions.
Other Expenses, Net
 
Note: Other Expenses, net are included in the Other segment
Non-financing interest expense
Third quarter 2012 non-financing interest expense of $57 million was $3 million lower than third quarter 2011 primarily due to the benefit of lower borrowing costs achieved as a result of refinancing existing debt.
Currency losses, net
Third quarter 2011 currency losses of $10 million were primarily due to the significant movement in exchange rates during the quarter among the U.S. Dollar, Euro, Yen and several developing market currencies.
Deferred compensation investments (gains)/losses
Represents (gains) and losses on investments supporting certain of our deferred compensation arrangements. These gains or losses are offset by an increase or decrease, respectively, in compensation expense recorded in SAG in our Services segment as a result of the increase or decrease in the liability associated with these arrangements.
All other expenses, net
The decrease was driven by miscellaneous charges incurred in the third quarter 2011.
 
Income Taxes
Third quarter 2012 effective tax rate was 19.9%. On an adjusted basis
1
, third quarter 2012 tax rate was 23.6%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to foreign tax credits resulting from anticipated dividends and other foreign transactions and resolution of certain tax positions, offset by a change in tax law.
Third quarter 2011 effective tax rate was 22.1%. On an adjusted basis
1
, third quarter 2011 tax rate was 25.1%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to geographical mix of profits as well as a higher foreign tax credit benefit as a result of our decision to repatriate current year income from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Xerox operations are widely dispersed. The statutory tax rate in most non-U.S. jurisdictions is lower than the combined U.S. and state tax rate. The amount of income subject to these lower foreign rates relative to the amount of U.S. income will impact our effective tax rate. However, no one country outside of the U.S. is a significant factor to our overall effective tax rate. Certain foreign income is subject to U.S. tax net of any available foreign tax credits. Our full year effective tax rate includes a benefit of approximately 10-percentage points from these non-U.S. operations, which is comparable to 2011.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2012 will be approximately 28%, excluding the effects of intangibles amortization and discrete events.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates, which primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox net income, was $34 million, a decrease of $9 million compared to third quarter 2011.
Third quarter 2012 equity income includes charges of $5 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring, compared to $1 million of charges for the third quarter 2011.
Net Income
Third quarter 2012 net income attributable to Xerox was $282 million, or $0.21 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
1
, net income attributable to Xerox was $333 million, or $0.25 per diluted share. Third quarter 2012 adjustments to net income reflect the amortization of intangible assets.
Third quarter 2011 net income attributable to Xerox was $320 million, or $0.22 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
1
, net income attributable to Xerox was $374 million, or $0.26 per diluted share. Third quarter 2011 adjustments to net income reflect the amortization of intangible assets.
 
The Net Income and EPS reconciliation table in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section contains the third quarter adjustments to net income.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.See Non-GAAP financial measures for calculation of adjusted EPS.
Segment Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Profit to Pre-tax Income.
Services
Our Services segment comprises three service offerings: Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO"), Document Outsourcing ("DO") and Information Technology Outsourcing ("ITO").
Revenue
Third quarter 2012 Services total revenue of $2,847 million increased 5% from the third quarter 2011, including a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency.
 
 
 
 
Segment Margin
Third quarter 2012 Services segment margin of 9.4% decreased 2.5-percentage points from third quarter 2011, due primarily to a decline in gross margin, driven primarily by the ramping of new services contracts, pressure on government contracts and lower volumes in some areas of the business. SAG as a percentage of revenue was flat as cost improvements were offset by higher deferred compensation expense.
Metrics
Pipeline
Our total Services sales pipeline, including synergy opportunities, grew 9% over the third quarter 2011. This sales pipeline includes the Total Contract Value ("TCV") of new business opportunities that potentially could be contracted within the next six months and excludes business opportunities with estimated annual recurring revenue in excess of $100 million.
Signings
Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Services signings were an estimated $3.1 billion in TCV for the quarter.
 
 
 
Signings on a trailing twelve month basis declined 15% in relation to the comparable prior year period. This decline was driven by customer decision delays and a lower amount of megadeals. Total signings increased sequentially by $0.5 billion from the second quarter 2012. Note that the above DO signings figures represent Enterprise signings only and do not include signings from our partner print services offerings, which is showing strong growth.
Note: TCV is estimated total revenue for future contracts for pipeline or signed contracts for signings as applicable.
Renewal rate (for BPO and ITO)
Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue ("ARR") on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts on which a renewal decision was made during the period. The third quarter 2012 contract renewal rate for BPO and ITO contracts was 86%, which is within our target range of 85%-90%.
 
Technology
Our Technology segment includes the sale of products and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products.
Revenue
 
Third quarter 2012 Technology revenue of $2,259 million decreased 10% from the third quarter 2011, including a 3-percentage point negative impact from currency. Technology revenues exclude the impact of growth in the Xerox document outsourcing business. Inclusive of the document outsourcing business, total document-related revenue decreased 7%, including a 3-percentage point negative impact from currency. Technology segment revenue results included the following:
 
 
 
Segment Margin
Third quarter 2012 Technology segment margin of 10.8% increased by 0.5-percentage points from the third quarter 2011, driven primarily by an improvement in gross margin. Productivity improvements, restructuring savings and a gain recognized on the sale of finance receivables (discussed further in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section) more than offset the impact of price declines.
 
Total Installs (Technology and Document Outsourcing
2
)
Third quarter 2012 installs increased from the third quarter 2011. Install activity includes installations for document outsourcing and Xerox-branded products shipped to Global Imaging Systems ("GIS"). Detail by product group is shown below:
Entry
 
 
 
Mid-Range
 
 
High-End
 
 
 
Other
Revenue
Third quarter 2012 Other revenue of $317 million decreased 13% from the third quarter 2011, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency. The decline is due primarily to lower paper revenue, which was driven by market pricing and lower activity. Paper comprised approximately 60% of the third quarter 2012 Other segment revenue.
Segment Margin
Third quarter 2012 Other segment loss of $62 million decreased $24 million from the third quarter 2011, primarily driven by lower other expenses, net.
Notes
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $594 million in the third quarter 2012. The $228 million increase in cash from third quarter 2011 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $289 million in the third quarter 2012. The $122 million increase in the use of cash from third quarter 2011 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $230 million in the third quarter 2012. The $262 million decrease in the use of cash from third quarter 2011 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our Total finance assets, net associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
The following summarizes our debt:
 
 
The increase in debt from December 31, 2011 is a result of an increase in Commercial Paper due to the timing of cash flows.
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation; therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
 
Sales of Accounts Receivables
Accounts receivable sales arrangements are utilized in the normal course of business as part of our cash and liquidity management. We have facilities in the U.S., Canada and several countries in Europe that enable us to sell to third-parties, on an on-going basis, certain accounts receivable without recourse. The accounts receivables sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days.
In September 2012, we negotiated a termination agreement with the purchasers under our revolving facility in the U.S. to repurchase the then outstanding receivables for cash and the satisfaction of the deferred purchase price. During the third quarter, we had total cash outflows to the purchasers of approximately $215 million, which reflect interim settlements as well as the repurchase of the remaining outstanding receivables upon termination. There were no outstanding balances associated with this facility as of September 30, 2012. Accounts receivable sales were as follows:
 
 
Sales of Finance Receivables
In September 2012, we sold our entire interest in a group of U.S. finance receivables from our Technology Segment with a net carrying value of $341 million to a third party financial institution for net cash proceeds of $314 million and a beneficial interest from the purchaser of $52 million. This transaction enables us to lower the cost associated with our financing portfolio.
A pre-tax gain of $23 million was recognized on this sale and is net of additional fees and expenses of $2 million. The gain on the sale is reported in Finance Income in Technology Segment revenues. We will continue to service the sold receivables and expect to record servicing fee income of approximately $6 million over the expected life of the associated receivables.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; our ability to recover capital investments; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012 and our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2012 third quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe it is necessary to adjust the following amounts determined in accordance with GAAP to exclude the effects of the certain items as well as their related income tax effects.
 
 
In 2012 and 2011 we adjusted for the amortization of intangible assets. The amortization of intangible assets is driven by our acquisition activity which can vary in size, nature and timing as compared to other companies within our industry and from period to period. Accordingly, due to the incomparability of acquisition activity among companies and from period to period, we believe exclusion of the amortization associated with intangible assets acquired through our acquisitions allows investors to better compare and understand our results. The use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of intangible assets will recur in future periods.
We also calculate and utilize an Operating income and margin earnings measure by adjusting our pre-tax income and margin amounts to exclude certain expenses. In addition to the amortization of intangible assets, operating income and margin also exclude Other expenses, net as well as Restructuring and asset impairment charges. Other expenses, net is primarily composed of non-financing interest expense and also includes other non-operating costs and expenses. Restructuring and asset impairment charges consist of costs primarily related to severance and benefits for employees pursuant to formal restructuring and workforce reduction plans. Such charges are expected to yield future benefits and savings with respect to our operational performance. We exclude these amounts in order to evaluate our current and past operating performance and to better understand the expected future trends in our business.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue
 
growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period's results against the corresponding prior period's results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth on the following tables:
Net Income and EPS reconciliation:
 
 
 
Guidance:
 
 
Note: GAAP and Adjusted EPS guidance exclude anticipated restructuring as the plans are not yet finalized
Effective Tax reconciliation:
 
 
Operating Income / Margin reconciliation:
 
 
Services Revenue Breakdown:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are aligned to how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Services, Technology, and Other.
 
 


