FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20120125065954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 25, 2012, Registrant released its fourth quarter 2011 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Forward Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; our ability to expand equipment placements and to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; development of new products and services; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including saving from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011 as well as our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: January 25, 2012
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Xerox Reports Fourth-Quarter 2011 Earnings
 
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., Jan. 25, 2012  Xerox Corporation (NYSE: XRX) announced today fourth-quarter 2011 results that include adjusted earnings per share of 33 cents, up 14 percent from fourth-quarter 2010, and $1.3 billion in operating cash flow. Adjusted EPS excludes 7 cents related to amortization of intangibles, resulting in GAAP EPS of 26 cents.
The company ended 2011 with full-year adjusted EPS up 15 percent, pro-forma revenue up 2 percent and operating cash flow of $2 billion. "Our performance reflects Xerox's operational discipline in delivering strong bottom-line results while scaling our services business and maintaining our leadership in document technology," said Ursula Burns, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer.
In the fourth quarter, total revenue of $6 billion was flat; revenue from the company's services business was up 6 percent, and revenue from its technology business was down 5 percent. Growth in services was driven by an 8 percent increase in both business process outsourcing and document outsourcing. Technology revenue, which represents the sale of document systems, supplies, technical service and financing of products, was significantly impacted by economic weakness in Europe.
"While operating in a challenging economic environment, we've grown our global market share for equipment revenue, further strengthening our industry leadership. Installs of Xerox equipment increased 8 percent in the fourth quarter. And, our managed print services are proving not only to be the industry standard but also an engine of growth for our business," said Burns.
"Signings for our diverse services offerings were up 15 percent in the fourth quarter," Burns added. "Our services portfolio remains a competitive advantage  providing clients cost-efficient ways to run more productive enterprises and benefitting our business for the long term through a healthy base of recurring revenue."
The increase in services signings continues to put near-term pressure on gross margins as Xerox makes initial investments to implement new contracts. Fourth-quarter gross margin was 32.2 percent, and selling, administrative and general expenses improved to 19.3 percent of revenue. Fourth-quarter 2011 results include 2 cents from a curtailment gain net of restructuring expenses. Operating margin of 10 percent was down 0.4 points from fourth-quarter 2010.
Full-year 2011 results include:
 
 
 
 
 
The company expects first-quarter 2012 GAAP earnings of 17 to 20 cents per share. First-quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be 21 to 24 cents per share. Full-year 2012 GAAP earnings are expected to be 97 cents to $1.03 per share. Full-year adjusted earnings are expected to be $1.12 to $1.18 per share, including restructuring.
The company also expects $2 billion to $2.3 billion in cash flow from operations for 2012.
The Xerox board of directors recently increased the company's share repurchase authorization by $500 million to more than $1.3 billion. With this authorization, the company expects to repurchase between $900 million and $1.1 billion in Xerox shares during 2012.
About Xerox
With sales approaching $23 billion, (NYSE: XRX) is the world's leading enterprise for and . Its technology, expertise and services enable workplaces  from small businesses to large global enterprises  to simplify the way work gets done so they operate more effectively and focus more on what matters most: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox offers and , including data processing, , , , transportation solutions, and for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The company also provides extensive leading-edge , services, and for and of any size. The 140,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit , , . For investor information, visit .
Xerox Corporation
business process
document management
real business
business process outsourcing
IT outsourcing services
healthcare solutions
HR benefits management
finance support
customer relationship management services
document technology
software
genuine
Xerox supplies
graphic communication
office printing environments
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.realbusiness.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
Non-GAAP Measures
This release refers to the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: the unprecedented volatility in the global economy; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; development of new products and services; interest rates and cost of borrowing; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the foreign countries in which we do business; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011, and our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Media Contacts:
Karen Arena, Xerox Corporation, +1-203-849-5521,
karen.arena@xerox.com
Ken Ericson, Xerox Corporation, +1-410-571-0161,
kenneth.ericson@xerox.com
To receive RSS news feeds, visit . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views from events visit , , , , , , .
Note:
http://news.xerox.com/pr/xerox/rss.aspx
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://twitter.com/xeroxoffice
http://twitter.com/xeroxproduction
http://twitter.com/servicesatxerox
http://twitter.com/xeroxevents
http://www.xerox.com/blogs
http://www.xerox.com/podcasts
XEROX, XEROX and Design are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
 
 
Xerox Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
 
 
Financial Review
Revenues
 
Fourth quarter 2011 total revenues were flat compared to the fourth quarter 2010, with no impact from currency. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An analysis of the change in revenue for each business segment is included in the "Segment Review" section.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Summary of Key Financial Ratios
The following is a summary of key financial ratios used to assess our performance:
 
Fourth quarter 2011 operating margin
3
of 10.0% decreased 0.4-percentage points as compared to the fourth quarter 2010. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in gross margin, which was partially offset by expense reductions.
Gross Margin
Gross margin of 32.2% decreased 1.4-percentage points, as compared to the fourth quarter 2010. The decrease was driven by the ramping of new services contracts, the impact of lower contract renewals from prior periods and the higher mix of Services revenue.
Services gross margin decreased by 2.2-percentage points as compared to the fourth quarter 2010, due primarily to the ramping of new services contracts within BPO and ITO and the impact of lower contract renewals from prior periods.
Technology gross margin decreased by 0.4-percentage points as compared to the fourth quarter 2010. The impact of price declines was partially offset by cost productivities and restructuring savings, reflecting continued focus on cost management.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
Fourth quarter 2011 RD&E as a percent of revenue of 3.0% decreased 0.2-percentage points from the fourth quarter 2010. In addition to lower spending, the decrease was driven by the positive mix impact of the continued growth in Services revenue, which historically has a lower RD&E percent of revenue.
RD&E of $179 million was $14 million lower than the fourth quarter 2010, reflecting the impact of restructuring and productivity improvements. Innovation is one of our core strengths and we continue to invest at levels that enhance this core strength, particularly in color, software and services. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
SAG as a percent of revenue of 19.3% decreased 0.7-percentage points from the fourth quarter 2010. The decrease was driven by spending reductions reflecting benefits from restructuring and productivity improvements in addition to the positive mix impact from the continued growth in Services revenue, which historically has a lower SAG percent of revenue.
 
SAG of $1,150 million was $46 million lower than the fourth quarter 2010. This included a $3 million favorable impact from currency for the quarter. SAG expenses reflect the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the fourth quarter 2011, we recorded $61 million of net restructuring and asset impairment charges ($39 million after tax), which included the following:
 
 
These costs were partially offset by $10 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives. The restructuring reserve balance as of December 31, 2011, for all programs was $123 million, of which approximately $116 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
We anticipate additional restructuring initiatives of approximately $0.01-$0.02 per share for the first quarter 2012.
In the fourth quarter 2010, we recorded $273 million of net restructuring and asset impairment charges, which included the following:
 
 
 
These costs were partially offset by $23 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
During the fourth quarter 2011, we recorded $139 million of expense related to the amortization of intangible assets. This was $54 million higher than fourth quarter 2010 and was driven by the accelerated write-off of the ACS trade name as a result of the fourth quarter 2011 decision to discontinue its use in early 2012 and transition the services business to the "Xerox Services" trade name.
Curtailment Gain
In December 2011, we amended all of our primary U.S. Defined Benefit Pension Plans for salaried employees. Our primary qualified plans had previously been amended to freeze the final average pay formulas within the plans as of December 31, 2012, but the cash balance service credit was expected to continue post December 31, 2012. The 2011 amendments now fully freeze benefit and service accruals after December 31, 2012 for these plans, including the related non-qualified plans. As a result of these plan amendments, we recognized a pre-tax curtailment gain of $107 million ($66 million after-tax),
 
which represents the recognition of deferred gains from other prior year amendments ("prior service credits") as a result of the discontinuation ("freeze") of any future benefit or service accrual period. The amendments are not expected to materially impact 2012 pension expense.
Acquisition Related Costs
Acquisition related costs associated with our acquisition of ACS were $9 million in the fourth quarter 2010. These costs primarily represent incremental external costs directly related to the integration of ACS and Xerox.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 139,650 at December 31, 2011 increased approximately 3,100 from year-end 2010, primarily due to the impact of acquisitions.
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Fourth quarter 2011 non-financing interest expense of $56 million was $22 million lower than fourth quarter 2010 primarily due to the benefit of lower borrowing costs achieved as a result of refinancing existing debt and utilizing the commercial paper program.
Currency Losses (Gains), net
Fourth quarter 2011 currency losses (gains) were $10 million higher than fourth quarter 2010 due primarily to a prior year cumulative translation gain of $6 million that was recognized upon the repatriation of cash and liquidation of a foreign subsidiary.
Loss on Early Extinguishment of Liability
Fourth quarter 2010 loss on early extinguishment of liability of $15 million represents the loss associated with the redemption of senior and medium-term notes in the fourth quarter 2010 and reflects a call premium and the write-off of unamortized debt costs.
Income Taxes
Fourth quarter 2011 effective tax rate was 22.8%. On an adjusted basis
3
, fourth quarter 2011 tax rate was 26.3%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to geographical mix of profits as well as a higher foreign tax credit benefit as a result of our decision to repatriate current year income from certain non U.S. subsidiaries.
 
Fourth quarter 2010 effective tax rate was 13.6%. On an adjusted basis
3
, fourth quarter 2010 tax rate was 29.5%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to geographical mix of profits and tax law changes.
Xerox operations are widely dispersed. The statutory tax rate in most non U.S. jurisdictions is lower than the combined U.S. and state tax rate. The amount of income subject to these lower foreign rates relative to the amount of U.S. income will impact our effective tax rate. However, no one country outside of the U.S. is a significant factor to our overall effective tax rate. Certain foreign income is subject to U.S. tax net of any available foreign tax credits. Our full year effective tax rate includes a benefit of approximately 10 percentage points from these non U.S. operations, which is comparable to 2010.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for 2012 will be approximately 29%, excluding the effects of intangibles amortization and discrete events.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates, which primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox net income, was $38 million, an increase of $12 million compared to fourth quarter 2010.
Fourth quarter 2011 equity income includes charges of $3 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring compared to $5 million of charges for the fourth quarter 2010.
Net Income
Fourth quarter 2011 net income attributable to Xerox was $375 million, or $0.26 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
3
, net income attributable to Xerox was $462 million, or $0.33 per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2011 adjustments to net income include amortization of intangible assets.
Fourth quarter 2010 net income attributable to Xerox was $171 million, or $0.12 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
3
, net income attributable to Xerox was $417 million, or $0.29 per diluted share.
The Net Income and EPS reconciliation table in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section contains the fourth quarter adjustments to net income.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.See Non-GAAP financial measures for calculation of adjusted EPS.
 
Segment Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Profit to Pre-tax Income.
Services
Our Services segment comprises three service offerings: Document Outsourcing ("DO"), Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO") and Information Technology Outsourcing ("ITO").
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2011 Services total revenue of $2,864 million increased 6% from the fourth quarter 2010, with no impact from currency.
 
 
 
Segment Margin
Fourth quarter 2011 Services segment margin of 10.3% decreased 1.7-percentage points from fourth quarter 2010, due primarily to the decline in gross margin, which was driven by the ramping of new services contracts and the impact of lower contract renewals from prior periods.
Metrics
Pipeline
Our total services sales pipeline, including synergy opportunities, grew 5% over the fourth quarter 2010. We have been able to maintain a significant pipeline, which has increased by approximately 50% from prior to the ACS acquisition, even with strong growth in signings. This sales pipeline includes the Total Contract Value ("TCV") of new business opportunities that potentially could be contracted within the next six months and excludes business opportunities with estimated annual recurring revenue in excess of $100 million.
 
Signings
Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Services signings were an estimated $4.2 billion in TCV for the quarter.
 
 
 
Signings increased 15% from the fourth quarter 2010, driven by growth in the ITO and DO offerings. Signings on a trailing twelve month basis were flat in relation to the comparable prior year period, impacted by the cyclicality of large deals in prior quarters, particularly the California Medicaid signing in the first quarter 2010. Signings continued to trend positively, increasing sequentially for the third straight quarter.
Note: TCV is estimated total revenue for future contracts for pipeline or signed contracts for signings as applicable.
Technology
Our Technology segment includes the sale of products and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products.
Revenue
 
Fourth quarter 2011 Technology revenue of $2,712 million decreased 5% from the fourth quarter 2010, including a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency. Revenue results included the following:
 
 
 
Segment Margin
Fourth quarter 2011 Technology segment margin of 11.7% was flat compared to the fourth quarter 2010. Lower cost and expense from restructuring savings was offset by a decline in gross margin.
Installs
Entry
 
 
Mid-Range
 
 
High-End
 
 
Note: Install activity percentages include installations for Document Outsourcing and the Xerox-branded products shipped to GIS. "Entry", "Mid-Range" and "High-End" are defined in Appendix II.
Other
Revenue
Fourth quarter 2011 Other revenue of $388 million decreased 8%, with no impact from currency, due to a decline in paper sales, wide format systems and other supplies partially offset by an increase in revenue from patent sales and licensing (see below). Paper comprised approximately 54% of the fourth quarter 2011 Other segment revenue.
In the fourth quarter of 2011, we entered into an agreement with another company that included, among other items, the sale of certain patents and a cross-licensing of certain patents of each party, pursuant to which we received an up-front payment with the remaining amount payable in two equal annual installment payments. Consistent with our accounting policy for these transactions, revenue associated with this agreement will be recorded as earned and only to the extent of cash received. During the fourth quarter 2011, the Other segment included revenue and pre-tax income/segment profit of approximately $32 million and $26 million ($16 million after-tax), respectively, which is net of certain expenses paid in connection with this agreement. We expect to recognize additional revenue and pre-tax income/segment profit of approximately $12 million and $8 million ($5 million after-tax), respectively, in each of the next two years in the Other Segment related to this agreement.
Segment Margin
Fourth quarter 2011 Other segment loss of $30 million decreased $36 million from the fourth quarter 2010, primarily driven by the increase from the patent sale and licensing as well as lower non-financing interest expense.
 
 
Notes
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,278 million in the fourth quarter 2011. The $29 million decrease in cash from fourth quarter 2010 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $140 million in the fourth quarter 2011. The $76 million decrease in the use of cash from fourth quarter 2010 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $1,013 million in the fourth quarter 2011. The $150 million increase in the use of cash from fourth quarter 2010 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Credit Facility
In fourth quarter 2011, we refinanced our $2 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that was executed in April 2007. This new facility is a five year commitment maturing in 2016 with a group of lenders, most of whom were lenders under the prior facility. Pricing, which is improved as a result of the refinancing, includes a borrowing rate of LIBOR + 1.175%and an annual commitment fee of 20 bps, based on our current ratings. The new facility contains a $300 million letter of credit sub facility, and also includes an accordion feature that allows us to increase the overall size of the facility up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2.75 billion. The new facility provides a backstop to Xerox's $2 billion commercial paper program. Proceeds from any borrowing under the new facility can be used to provide working capital and for general corporate purposes.
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our Total finance assets, net associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
The decrease of $255 million in Total finance assets, net includes currency of $63 million.
The following summarizes our debt:
 
 
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation; therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
Sales of Accounts Receivables
We have facilities in the U.S., Canada and several countries in Europe that enable us to sell to third-parties, on an on-going basis, certain accounts receivable without recourse. The accounts receivables sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. Accounts receivable sales were as follows:
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; actions of competitors; our ability to expand equipment placements and to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; development of new products and services; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; the risk that we will not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the
 
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011 and our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2011 fourth quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
To better understand the trends in our business and the impact of the ACS acquisition, we believe it is necessary to adjust the following amounts determined in accordance with GAAP to exclude the effects of the certain items as well as their related income tax effects. In 2011, adjustments were limited to the amortization of intangible assets and the loss on the early extinguishment of a liability.
Note:
 
 
 
The above have been adjusted for the following items:
 
 
 
 
periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of intangible assets will recur in future periods. In addition, in the fourth quarter 2011, the total amortization of intangible assets included the accelerated write-off of the ACS trade name as a result of the fourth quarter 2011 decision to discontinue its use in early 2012 and transition the services business to the "Xerox Services" trade name.
 
In addition to the above excluded items, operating income and margin also exclude other expenses, net. Other expenses, net is primarily composed of non-financing interest expense.
Pro-forma Basis
To better understand the trends in our business, we discussed our year-to-date total revenue by comparing it against the adjusted year-to-date 2010 results, which included ACS historical results for the comparable period. Accordingly, we have included ACS's 2010 estimated total revenue results for the period January 1 through February 5, 2010 in our reported 2010 results in order to provide a full-year comparison of results for 2011 and 2010. We refer to the comparison against this adjusted 2010 result as "pro-forma" based comparison.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods' results against the corresponding prior periods' results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth on the following tables:
 
Net Income and EPS reconciliation:
 
 
Average shares for the calculation of adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter 2011 were 1,415 million and include 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and therefore the related quarterly dividend of $6 million is excluded. Fourth quarter 2010 shares of 1,458 million also include the 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and the related quarterly dividend of $6 million was excluded. We evaluate the dilutive effect of the Series A convertible preferred stock on an "if-converted" basis.
 
 
Average shares for the calculation of adjusted EPS for the full year 2011 were 1,444 million and include 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and therefore the related 2011 dividend of $24 million is excluded. Full year 2010 shares of 1,378 million also include a pro-rata portion of the 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and therefore the 2010 dividend of $21 million associated with those shares was excluded. We evaluate the dilutive effect of the Series A convertible preferred stock on an "if-converted" basis.
 
2012 Guidance:
 
 
Note: GAAP and adjusted EPS guidance include anticipated restructuring.
Effective Tax reconciliation:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Income / Margin reconciliation
 
 
 
 
Pro-forma
 
 
NOTE: Pro-forma total revenue change includes a favorable currency impact of 2-percentage points.
 
APPENDIX I
Xerox Corporation
Earnings per Common Share
 
 
APPENDIX II
Xerox Corporation
Reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Pre-Tax Income
 
Our reportable segments are aligned to how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Technology, Services and Other.
 
 


