FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20120423070127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 23, 2012, Registrant released its first quarter 2012 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; our ability to recover capital investments; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: April 23, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xerox Reports First-Quarter 2012 Earnings
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., April 23, 2012  (NYSE: XRX) announced today first-quarter 2012 adjusted earnings per share of 23 cents, which excludes 4 cents related to the amortization of intangibles, resulting in GAAP EPS of 19 cents.
Xerox Corporation
In the first quarter, total revenue of $5.5 billion was up 1 percent or 2 percent in constant currency. Revenue from the company's services business was up 10 percent, and revenue from its technology business was down 5 percent in constant currency. Growth in services was driven by a 13 percent increase in business process outsourcing and 7 percent growth in document outsourcing. Technology revenue, which represents the sale of document systems, supplies, technical service and financing of products, was impacted by the weak macro environment as well as clients' increasing shift to Xerox managed print services. Installs of Xerox products were up 7 percent in the first quarter, and the company continues to lead in worldwide equipment sale market share.
"Services now represents more than half of our total revenue and will continue to be the growth engine of our company as we expand our BPO offerings and strengthen our leadership in managed print services," said Ursula Burns, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "Our first-quarter results reflect the successful execution of our strategy: accelerate services, grow our install base of Xerox color products, and efficiently operate our business to deliver strong earnings and shareholder value."
As anticipated, overall margins were down in the quarter. First-quarter gross margin was 31 percent, and selling, administrative and general expenses were 19.4 percent of revenue. Operating margin of 8.5 percent was down 0.6 points from first-quarter 2011.
"Our business mix continues to change as we significantly scale our revenue in services and invest in growth through new offerings and long-term contracts," added Burns. "As a result, we see short-term pressure on margins that we will offset through cost reductions and operational improvements. We're accelerating top-line services growth that leads to solid bottom-line performance."
In line with expectations and cash flow seasonality, the company used $15 million in operating cash during the first quarter.
Xerox expects second-quarter 2012 GAAP earnings of 21 cents to 24 cents per share. Second-quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be 25 cents to 28 cents per share including 1 cent to 2 cents of restructuring.
The company reiterated its expectations for full-year 2012 GAAP earnings per share of 97 cents to $1.03. Including restructuring, Xerox continues to expect full-year adjusted earnings per share of $1.12 to $1.18. In addition, Xerox continues to expect full-year operating cash flow of $2 billion to $2.3 billion, and plans to repurchase $900 million to $1.1 billion in Xerox stock during the year.
About Xerox
With sales approaching $23 billion, (NYSE: XRX) is the world's leading enterprise for and . Its technology, expertise and enable workplaces  from small businesses to large global enterprises  to simplify the way work gets done so they operate more effectively and focus more on what matters most: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox offers and , including data processing, , , , , and for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The company also provides extensive leading-edge , services, and for and of any size. The 140,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit , or . For investor information, visit .
Xerox
business process
document management
services
real business
business process outsourcing
IT outsourcing services
healthcare solutions
HR benefits management
finance support
transportation solutions
customer relationship management services
document technology
software
genuine Xerox supplies
graphic communication
office printing environments
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.realbusiness.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
This release refers to the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Non- GAAP Measures:
 
 
 
Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe,"
 
"estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; our ability to recover capital investments; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Media Contacts:
Karen Arena, Xerox Corporation, +1-203-849-5521,
karen.arena@xerox.com
Ken Ericson, Xerox Corporation, +1-410-571-0161,
kenneth.ericson@xerox.com
To receive RSS news feeds, visit . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views visit , , , .
Note:
http://news.xerox.com/pr/xerox/rss.aspx
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://realbusinessatxerox.blogs.xerox.com
http://www.facebook.com/XeroxCorp
http://www.youtube.com/XeroxCorp
XEROX, XEROX and Design are trademarks of Xerox in the United States and/or other countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Revenues
 
First quarter 2012 total revenues increased by 1% compared to the first quarter 2011, including a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency. Total revenues included the following:
 
 
 
 
 
An analysis of the change in revenue for each business segment is included in the "Segment Review" section.
 
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Summary of Key Financial Ratios
The following is a summary of key financial ratios used to assess our performance:
 
First quarter 2012 operating margin
3
of 8.5% decreased 0.6-percentage points as compared to the first quarter 2011. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in gross margin, which was partially offset by expense reductions.
Gross Margin
Gross margin of 31.0% decreased 2-percentage points as compared to the first quarter 2011. The decrease was driven primarily by the ramping of new services contracts, the impact of lower contract renewals from prior periods and the higher mix of Services revenue.
Services segment gross margin decreased by 1.9-percentage points as compared to the first quarter 2011, due primarily to the ramping of new services contracts within BPO and ITO and the impact of lower contract renewals from prior periods.
Technology segment gross margin decreased by 0.6-percentage points as compared to the first quarter 2011. An increase in equipment gross margin was more than offset by a lower mix of supplies revenue. The impact of price declines was more than offset by productivity improvements and restructuring savings, reflecting continued focus on cost management.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
First quarter 2012 RD&E as a percent of revenue of 3.1% decreased 0.3-percentage points from the first quarter 2011. In addition to lower spending, the decrease was driven by the positive mix impact of the continued growth in Services revenue, which historically has a lower RD&E percent of revenue.
RD&E of $173 million was $11 million lower than the first quarter 2011, reflecting the impact of restructuring and productivity improvements. Innovation continues to be one of our core strengths and we continue to invest at levels that enhance this core strength, particularly in color, software and services. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
 
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
SAG as a percent of revenue of 19.4% decreased 1.1-percentage points from the first quarter 2011. The decrease was driven by spending reductions reflecting benefits from restructuring and productivity improvements in addition to the positive mix impact from the continued growth in Services revenue, which historically has a lower SAG percent of revenue.
SAG of $1,068 million was $51 million lower than the first quarter 2011. This included a $10 million favorable impact from currency for the quarter. SAG expenses reflect the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the first quarter 2012, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $17 million, which included approximately $22 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 500 employees primarily in North America, and $2 million of asset impairment charges. These costs were partially offset by $7 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
The restructuring reserve balance as of March 31, 2012 for all programs was $101 million, of which approximately $94 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
During the first quarter 2011, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment credits of $15 million, primarily resulting from net reversals and changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
During the first quarter 2012, we recorded $82 million of expense related to the amortization of intangible assets. This was $3 million lower than first quarter 2011 primarily as a result of the accelerated write-off of the ACS brand name in the fourth quarter 2011.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 138,300 at March 31, 2012 decreased approximately 1,350 from year-end 2011, primarily due to restructuring related actions partially offset by the impact of acquisitions.
 
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-financing interest expense
First quarter 2012 non-financing interest expense of $56 million was $11 million lower than first quarter 2011 primarily due to the benefit of lower borrowing costs achieved as a result of refinancing existing debt and utilizing the commercial paper program.
All other expenses, net
All other expenses, net for the first quarter 2012 decreased $8 million primarily driven by gains on investments supporting certain of our deferred compensation arrangements. The gains were offset by an increase in compensation expense recorded in SAG as a result of the increase in the liability associated with these arrangements.
Income Taxes
First quarter 2012 effective tax rate was 24.6%. On an adjusted basis
3
, first quarter 2012 tax rate was 27.6%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to foreign tax credits resulting from anticipated dividends and other foreign transactions as well as net tax benefits from the geographical mix of profits.
First quarter 2011 effective tax rate was 27.1%. On an adjusted basis
3
, the first quarter 2011 tax rate was 29.2%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the net tax benefits from the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in those jurisdictions and foreign tax credits.
Xerox operations are widely dispersed. The statutory tax rate in most non U.S. jurisdictions is lower than the combined U.S. and state tax rate. The amount of income subject to these lower foreign rates relative to the amount of U.S. income will impact our effective tax rate. However, no one country outside of the U.S. is a significant factor to our overall effective tax rate. Certain foreign income is subject to U.S. tax net of any available foreign tax credits. Our full year effective tax rate includes a benefit of approximately 9 percentage points from these non U.S. operations, which is comparable to 2011.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remaining quarters of 2012 will be approximately 29%, excluding the effects of intangibles amortization and discrete events.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates, which primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox net income, was $40 million, an increase of $6 million compared to first quarter 2011.
First quarter 2012 equity income includes charges of $4 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring compared to $11 million of charges for the first quarter 2011.
Net Income
First quarter 2012 net income attributable to Xerox was $269 million, or $0.19 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
3
, net income attributable to Xerox was $319 million, or $0.23 per diluted share. First quarter 2012 adjustments to net income reflect the amortization of intangible assets.
First quarter 2011 net income attributable to Xerox was $281 million, or $0.19 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
3
, net income attributable to Xerox was $334 million, or $0.23 per diluted share.
The Net Income and EPS reconciliation table in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section contains the first quarter adjustments to net income.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I.See Non-GAAP financial measures for calculation of adjusted EPS.
 
Segment Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Profit to Pre-tax Income.
Services
Our Services segment comprises three service offerings: Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO"), Document Outsourcing ("DO") and Information Technology Outsourcing ("ITO").
Revenue
First quarter 2012 Services total revenue of $2,821 million increased 9% from the first quarter 2011, including a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency.
 
 
 
Segment Margin
First quarter 2012 Services segment margin of 9.3% decreased 1-percentage point from first quarter 2011, due primarily to the decline in gross margin, which was driven by the ramping of new services contracts and the impact of lower contract renewals from prior periods.
 
Metrics
Pipeline
Our total services sales pipeline, including synergy opportunities, grew 5% over the first quarter 2011. This sales pipeline includes the Total Contract Value ("TCV") of new business opportunities that potentially could be contracted within the next six months and excludes business opportunities with estimated annual recurring revenue in excess of $100 million.
Signings
Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Services signings were an estimated $2.2 billion in TCV for the quarter.
 
 
 
Signings on a trailing twelve month basis were flat in relation to the comparable prior year period, impacted by the cyclicality of large deals.
Note: TCV is estimated total revenue for future contracts for pipeline or signed contracts for signings as applicable.
Renewal rate (for BPO and ITO)
Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue ("ARR") on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts on which a renewal decision was made during the period. The first quarter 2012 contract renewal rate for BPO and ITO contracts was 86%, which is within our target range of 85%-90%.
Technology
Our Technology segment includes the sale of products and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products.
Revenue
 
First quarter 2012 Technology revenue of $2,338 million decreased 6% from the first quarter 2011, including a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency. Technology revenues exclude the impact of growth in the Xerox document outsourcing business. Revenue results included the following:
 
 
 
Segment Margin
First quarter 2012 Technology segment margin of 10.5% declined by 0.2-percentage points from the first quarter 2011. Lower operating expenses from restructuring savings were more than offset by a decline in gross profit.
Total Installs (Technology and Document Outsourcing
4
)
In the first quarter 2012, installs continued to grow in all three strategic product groups (Entry, Mid-Range and High-End). Install activity includes installations for document outsourcing and Xerox-branded products shipped to GIS. Detail by product group is shown below:
Entry
 
 
 
Mid-Range
 
 
High-End
 
 
Note:    "Entry", "Mid-Range" and "High-End" are defined in Appendix II.
 
Other
Revenue
First quarter 2012 Other revenue of $344 million decreased 11% from the first quarter 2011, including a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency. The decline is due primarily to a decline in paper sales, which was driven by market pricing and our strategy to discontinue the direct sale of paper in selected markets, as well as a decline in licensing revenue. Paper comprised approximately 61% of the first quarter 2012 Other segment revenue.
Segment Margin
First quarter 2012 Other segment loss of $52 million decreased $14 million from the first quarter 2011, primarily driven by lower non-financing interest expense.
Notes
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash used in operating activities was $15 million in the first quarter 2012. The $15 million improvement in operating cash flow from first quarter 2011 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In March 2012, we elected to make a US pension contribution of 15.4 million shares of our common stock, with an aggregate value of approximately $130 million, to meet our planned level of funding.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $214 million in the first quarter 2012. The $61 million increase in the use of cash from first quarter 2011 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities was $835 million in the first quarter 2012. The $877 million increase in cash from first quarter 2011 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our Total finance assets, net associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
The following summarizes our debt:
 
 
 
The increase in debt from December 31, 2011 is primarily due to the March 2012 issuance of $600 million of Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2013 and $500 million of 2.95% Senior Notes due 2017 for net proceeds from both notes of approximately $1,093 million. The 2013 Floating Rate Notes accrue interest at a rate per annum, reset quarterly, equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 1.400%. This debt issuance partially pre-funds the May 2012 maturity of our $1,100 million of 5.59% Senior Notes.
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation; therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
Sales of Accounts Receivables
We have facilities in the U.S., Canada and several countries in Europe that enable us to sell to third-parties, on an on-going basis, certain accounts receivable without recourse. The accounts receivables sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. Accounts receivable sales were as follows:
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; our ability to recover capital investments; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2012 first quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe it is necessary to adjust the following amounts determined in accordance with GAAP to exclude the effects of the certain items as well as their related income tax effects.
 
 
In 2012, adjustments are limited to the amortization of intangible assets. The amortization of intangible assets is driven by our acquisition activity which can vary in size, nature and timing as compared to other companies within our industry and from period to period. Accordingly, due to the incomparability of acquisition activity among companies and from period to period, we believe exclusion of the amortization associated with intangible assets acquired through our acquisitions allows investors to better compare and understand our results. The use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of intangible assets will recur in future periods.
We also calculate and utilize an operating income and margin earnings measure by adjusting our pre-tax income and margin amounts to exclude certain expenses. In addition to the above excluded item, operating income and margin also exclude Other expenses, net as well as Restructuring and asset impairment charges. Other expenses, net is primarily composed of non-financing interest expense. Restructuring and asset impairment charges consist of costs primarily related to severance and benefits for employees pursuant to formal restructuring and workforce reduction plans. Such charges are expected to yield future benefits and savings with respect to our operational performance. We exclude these amounts in order to evaluate our current and past operating performance and to better understand the expected future trends in our business.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
 
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period's results against the corresponding prior period's results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth on the following tables:
Net Income and EPS reconciliation:
 
Average shares for the calculation of adjusted EPS for the first quarter 2012 were 1,396 million and include 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and therefore the related quarterly dividend of $6 million is excluded. First quarter 2011 shares of 1,463 million also include the 27 million shares associated with the Series A convertible preferred stock and the related quarterly dividend of $6 million was excluded. We evaluate the dilutive effect of the Series A convertible preferred stock on an "if-converted" basis.
Guidance:
 
 
Effective Tax reconciliation:
 
Operating Income / Margin reconciliation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are aligned to how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Services, Technology, and Other.
 
 


