FILE:XRX/XRX-8K-20120720064905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 20, 2012, Registrant released its second quarter 2012 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant's results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, environmental regulations and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; our ability to recover capital investments; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.
Date: July 20, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xerox Reports Second-Quarter 2012 Earnings
 
 
 
 
NORWALK, Conn., July 20, 2012  (NYSE: XRX) announced today second-quarter 2012 adjusted earnings per share of 26 cents, which excludes 4 cents related to the amortization of intangibles, resulting in flat year-over-year GAAP earnings of 22 cents per share.
Xerox
In the second quarter, total revenue of $5.5 billion was down 1 percent or up 1 percent in constant currency.
Revenue from the company's services business was up 7 percent in constant currency. "With more than half our total revenue coming from services, accelerating growth in this segment of our business is a priority," said Ursula Burns, Xerox chairman and chief executive officer. "Our second-quarter results reflect solid progress, with 8 percent growth from business process outsourcing, 9 percent growth from IT outsourcing and 6 percent growth in document outsourcing, all at constant currency."
The continued weak macro environment, especially in Europe, resulted in a 4 percent constant currency decline in the company's technology revenue, which represents the sale of document systems, supplies, technical service and financing of products.
"Strong revenue from servicesour growth driver today and in the futuregives us financial flexibility that helps minimize the impact from our slowing technology business," added Burns. "While ramping services for long-term growth, we're focused on maintaining market leadership in our technology segment and benefitting from its cash-generating business model."
Operating margin of 9.7 percent was down 0.7 points from second-quarter 2011, and up 1.2 points from first quarter of this year, driven by a 1.3 point sequential improvement from the company's services business. Second-quarter gross margin was 32 percent, and selling, administrative and general expenses were 19.4 percent of revenue.
The company generated $228 million in cash from operations, a year-over-year decline primarily due to the change in the quarterly timing of cash pension contributions. Xerox continues to expect full-year operating cash flow of $2 billion to $2.3 billion, and plans to repurchase $900 million to $1.1 billion in Xerox stock during the year.
Considering the economic uncertainty, Xerox now expects that revenue from its technology business will continue to be weak, and, as a result, revised its full-year earnings expectations, which are based on continued strong year-over-year revenue growth from services, lower revenue from technology, and the ongoing benefit from operational efficiencies.
Xerox expects third-quarter 2012 GAAP earnings of 20 cents to 22 cents per share. Third-quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be 24 cents to 26 cents per share.
The company expects full-year 2012 GAAP earnings per share of 92 cents to 97 cents and full-year adjusted earnings per share of $1.07 to $1.12.
About Xerox
With sales approaching $23 billion, (NYSE: XRX) is the world's leading enterprise for and . Its technology, expertise and enable workplaces  from small businesses to large global enterprises  to simplify the way work gets done so they operate more effectively and focus more on what matters most: their . Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., Xerox offers and , including data processing, , , , , and for commercial and government organizations worldwide. The company also provides extensive leading-edge , services, and for and of any size. The 140,000 people of Xerox serve clients in more than 160 countries. For more information, visit , or . For investor information, visit .
Xerox
business process
document management
services
real business
business process outsourcing
IT outsourcing services
healthcare solutions
HR benefits management
finance support
transportation solutions
customer relationship management services
document technology
software
genuine Xerox supplies
graphic communication
office printing environments
http://www.xerox.com
http://news.xerox.com
http://www.realbusiness.com
http://www.xerox.com/investor
Notes
ITO revenue growth includes 3-percentage points of growth related to intercompany services, which are eliminated from total services revenue growth.
ITO Revenue Growth:
This release refers to the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Non- GAAP Measures:
 
 
 
Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this release for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and their reconciliation to the reported GAAP measure.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result
 
of a breach of our security; our ability to recover capital investments; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
Media Contacts:
Karen Arena, Xerox, +1-203-849-5521,
karen.arena@xerox.com
Ken Ericson, Xerox, +1-410-571-0161,
kenneth.ericson@xerox.com
To receive RSS news feeds, visit . For open commentary, industry perspectives and views visit , , , .
Note:
http://news.xerox.com/pr/xerox/rss.aspx
http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp
http://realbusinessatxerox.blogs.xerox.com
http://www.facebook.com/XeroxCorp
http://www.youtube.com/XeroxCorp
XEROX, XEROX and Design are trademarks of Xerox in the United States and/or other countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review
Revenues
 
Second quarter 2012 total revenues decreased by 1% compared to the second quarter 2011, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency and reflected the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional analysis of the change in revenue for each business segment is included in the "Segment Review" section.
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Summary of Key Financial Ratios
The following is a summary of key financial ratios used to assess our performance:
 
Operating Margin
Second quarter 2012 operating margin
1
of 9.7% decreased 0.7-percentage points as compared to the second quarter 2011. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in gross margin, which was partially offset by expense reductions. Operating margin improved sequentially from the first quarter 2012 by 1.2 - percentage points.
Gross Margin
Gross margin of 32.0% decreased 1.4-percentage points as compared to the second quarter 2011. The decrease was driven primarily by the ramping of new services contracts and the higher mix of Services revenue.
Services segment gross margin decreased by 2.3-percentage points as compared to the second quarter 2011, driven primarily by the ramping of new services contracts. However, the Services segment gross margin improved sequentially from first quarter 2012 by 0.9 points.
Technology segment gross margin increased by 0.2-percentage points as compared to the second quarter 2011 as productivity improvements and restructuring savings more than offset the impact of price declines and unfavorable year-over-year transaction currency, reflecting continued focus on cost management.
 
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses ("RD&E")
Second quarter 2012 RD&E as a percent of revenue of 2.9% decreased 0.2-percentage points from the second quarter 2011. In addition to lower spending, the decrease was driven by the positive mix impact of the continued growth in Services revenue, which historically has a lower RD&E percent of revenue.
RD&E of $161 million was $14 million lower than the second quarter 2011, reflecting the impact of restructuring and productivity improvements. Innovation continues to be one of our core strengths and we continue to invest at levels that enhance this core strength, particularly in color, software and services. Xerox R&D is strategically coordinated with Fuji Xerox.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses ("SAG")
SAG as a percent of revenue of 19.4% decreased 0.5-percentage points from the second quarter 2011. The decrease was driven by spending reductions reflecting benefits from restructuring and productivity improvements in addition to the positive mix impact from the continued growth in Services revenue, which historically has a lower SAG percent of revenue.
SAG of $1,076 million was $43 million lower than the second quarter 2011. This included a $24 million favorable impact from currency for the quarter. SAG expenses reflect the following:
 
 
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges
During the second quarter 2012, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $29 million, which included approximately $25 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 700 employees primarily in North America, and $5 million of lease cancellation charges. These costs were partially offset by $1 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
During the second quarter 2011, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment credits of $9 million, primarily resulting from net reversals and changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2012 for all programs was $84 million, of which approximately $76 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
 
Amortization of Intangible Assets
During the second quarter 2012, we recorded $82 million of expense related to the amortization of intangible assets. This was $5 million lower than second quarter 2011 primarily as a result of the accelerated write-off of the ACS brand name in the fourth quarter 2011.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment of 139,077 at June 30, 2012 decreased approximately 570 from year-end 2011, primarily due to restructuring related actions partially offset by the impact of acquisitions.
Other Expenses, Net
 
Non-financing interest expense
Second quarter 2012 non-financing interest expense of $58 million was $6 million lower than second quarter 2011 primarily due to the benefit of lower borrowing costs achieved as a result of refinancing existing debt.
Loss on early extinguishment of liability
In second quarter 2011, Xerox Capital Trust I ("Trust I"), our wholly owned subsidiary trust, redeemed the $650 million 8.0% preferred securities due in 2027. We incurred a pre-tax loss on the early extinguishment of this liability of $33 million ($20 million after-tax), representing the call premium of approximately $10 million as well as the write-off of unamortized debt costs and other liability carrying value adjustments of $23 million.
All other expenses, net
Second quarter 2012 all other expenses, net of $16 million was $8 million higher than second quarter 2011 primarily due to the write-off of an investment.
Income Taxes
Second quarter 2012 effective tax rate was 18.8% . On an adjusted basis
1
, second quarter 2012 tax rate was 22.4%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to foreign tax credits resulting from anticipated dividends and other foreign transactions. In addition, the resolution of a number of tax audit positions and an increase in our anticipated future utilization of tax credits provided a 5-percentage point reduction in our second quarter adjusted tax rate.
 
Second quarter 2011 effective tax rate was 26.9%. On an adjusted basis
1
, second quarter 2011 tax rate was 29.6%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to our foreign income being taxed at lower rates or offset by available foreign tax credits.
Xerox operations are widely dispersed. The statutory tax rate in most non U.S. jurisdictions is lower than the combined U.S. and state tax rate. The amount of income subject to these lower foreign rates relative to the amount of U.S. income will impact our effective tax rate. However, no one country outside of the U.S. is a significant factor to our overall effective tax rate. Certain foreign income is subject to U.S. tax net of any available foreign tax credits. Our full-year effective tax rate includes a benefit of approximately 12 percentage points from these non-U.S. operations, which is comparable to 2011.
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for the remaining quarters of 2012 will be approximately 29%, excluding the effects of intangibles amortization and discrete events.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates, which primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox net income, was $31 million, a decrease of $3 million compared to second quarter 2011.
Second quarter 2012 equity income includes charges of $6 million related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring compared to $4 million of charges for the second quarter 2011.
Net Income
Second quarter 2012 net income attributable to Xerox was $309 million, or $0.22 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
1
, net income attributable to Xerox was $360 million, or $0.26 per diluted share. Second quarter 2012 adjustments to net income reflect the amortization of intangible assets.
Second quarter 2011 net income attributable to Xerox was $319 million, or $0.22 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis
1
, net income attributable to Xerox was $393 million, or $0.27 per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 adjustments to net income include amortization of intangible assets and the loss on the early extinguishment of liability.
The Net Income and EPS reconciliation table in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section contains the second quarter adjustments to net income.
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are included as Appendix I. See Non-GAAP financial measures for calculation of adjusted EPS.
 
Segment Review
 
Refer to Appendix II for the reconciliation of Segment Profit to Pre-tax Income.
Services
Our Services segment comprises three service offerings: Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO"), Document Outsourcing ("DO") and Information Technology Outsourcing ("ITO").
Revenue
Second quarter 2012 Services total revenue of $2,806 million increased 5% from the second quarter 2011, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency.
 
 
 
Segment Margin
Second quarter 2012 Services segment margin of 10. 6% decreased 1.5-percentage points from second quarter 2011, due primarily to a decline in gross margin, which was driven by the ramping of new services contracts. However, segment margin improved sequentially from first quarter 2012 by 1.3-percentage points.
 
Metrics
Pipeline
Our total Services sales pipeline, including synergy opportunities, grew 10% over the second quarter 2011. This sales pipeline includes the Total Contract Value ("TCV") of new business opportunities that potentially could be contracted within the next six months and excludes business opportunities with estimated annual recurring revenue in excess of $100 million.
Signings
Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Services signings were an estimated $2.6 billion in TCV for the quarter.
 
 
 
Signings on a trailing twelve month basis declined 1% in relation to the comparable prior year period. Although the eligible renewal population was smaller in second quarter 2012 than in prior quarters, new business signings increased by 13% on a trailing twelve month basis.
Note: TCV is estimated total revenue for future contracts for pipeline or signed contracts for signings as applicable.
Renewal rate (for BPO and ITO)
Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue ("ARR") on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts on which a renewal decision was made during the period. The second quarter 2012 contract renewal rate for BPO and ITO contracts was 89%, which is within our target range of 85%-90%.
Technology
Our Technology segment includes the sale of products and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products.
Revenue
 
Second quarter 2012 Technology revenue of $2,370 million decreased 7% from the second quarter 2011, including a 3-percentage point negative impact from currency. Technology revenues exclude the impact of growth in the Xerox document outsourcing business. Revenue results included the following:
 
 
 
Segment Margin
Second quarter 2012 Technology segment margin of 11. 3% declined by 0.5-percentage points from the second quarter 2011, as an improvement in gross margin was more than offset by expenses related to the drupa print trade show and an increase in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue.
Total Installs (Technology and Document Outsourcing
2
)
Second quarter 2012 installs increased from the second quarter 2011 in all three strategic product groups (Entry, Mid-Range and High-End). Install activity includes installations for document outsourcing and Xerox-branded products shipped to GIS. Detail by product group is shown below:
Entry
 
 
 
Mid-Range
 
 
High-End
 
 
Note:    "Entry", "Mid-Range" and "High-End" are defined in Appendix II.
 
Other
Revenue
Second quarter 2012 Other revenue of $365 million decreased 6% from the second quarter 2011, including a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency. The decline is due primarily to a decline in paper sales, which was driven by market pricing and lower activity. Paper comprised approximately 60% of the second quarter 2012 Other segment revenue.
Segment Margin
Second quarter 2012 Other segment loss of $68 million decreased $5 million from the second quarter 2011, primarily driven by lower non-financing interest expense.
Notes
 
 
Capital Resources and Liquidity
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011:
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $228 million in the second quarter 2012. The $119 million decrease in cash from second quarter 2011 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $98 million in the second quarter 2012. The $117 million decrease in the use of cash from second quarter 2011 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $827 million in the second quarter 2012. The $788 million increase in the use of cash from second quarter 2011 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Customer Financing Activities
The following represents our Total finance assets, net associated with our lease and finance operations:
 
 
The following summarizes our debt:
 
 
The increase in debt from December 31, 2011 is primarily driven by an increase in commercial paper due to the timing of cash flows.
Our lease contracts permit customers to pay for equipment over time rather than at the date of installation; therefore, we maintain a certain level of debt (that we refer to as financing debt) to support our investment in these lease contracts, which are reflected in Total finance assets, net. For this financing aspect of our business, we maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our finance assets. Based on this leverage, the following represents the breakdown of total debt between financing debt and core debt:
 
 
 
Sales of Accounts Receivables
We have facilities in the U.S., Canada and several countries in Europe that enable us to sell to third-parties, on an on-going basis, certain accounts receivable without recourse. The accounts receivables sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. Accounts receivable sales were as follows:
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "will," "should" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; our ability to recover capital investments; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the "Risk Factors" section, the "Legal Proceedings" section, the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section and other sections of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, we have discussed the non-GAAP measures described below. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth below as well as in the 2012 second quarter presentation slides available at .
www.xerox.com/investor
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe it is necessary to adjust the following amounts determined in accordance with GAAP to exclude the effects of the certain items as well as their related income tax effects.
 
 
In 2012 and 2011 we adjusted for the amortization of intangible assets. The amortization of intangible assets is driven by our acquisition activity which can vary in size, nature and timing as compared to other companies within our industry and from period to period. Accordingly, due to the incomparability of acquisition activity among companies and from period to period, we believe exclusion of the amortization associated with intangible assets acquired through our acquisitions allows investors to better compare and understand our results. The use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of intangible assets will recur in future periods.
In 2011, we also adjusted for the loss on early extinguishment of liability given the discrete, unusual or infrequent nature of this item on our results of operations for the period. We believe exclusion of this item allows investors to better understand and analyze the results for the period as compared to prior periods as well as expected trends in our business.
We also calculate and utilize an operating income and margin earnings measure by adjusting our pre-tax income and margin amounts to exclude certain expenses. In addition to the amortization of intangible assets, operating income and margin also exclude Other expenses, net as well as Restructuring and asset impairment charges. Other expenses, net is primarily composed of non-financing interest expense and also includes the loss on early extinguishment of liability mentioned above. Restructuring and asset impairment charges consist of costs primarily related to severance and benefits for employees pursuant to formal restructuring and workforce reduction plans. Such charges are expected to yield future benefits and savings with respect to our operational performance. We exclude these amounts in order to evaluate our current and past operating performance and to better understand the expected future trends in our business.
Constant Currency
To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as "constant currency." Currencies for developing market countries (Latin America, Brazil, Middle East, India, Eurasia and Central-Eastern Europe) that we operate in are reported at actual
 
exchange rates for both actual and constant revenue growth rates because (1) these countries historically have had volatile currency and inflationary environments and (2) our subsidiaries in these countries have historically taken pricing actions to mitigate the impact of inflation and devaluation. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period's results against the corresponding prior period's results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are set forth on the following tables:
Net Income and EPS reconciliation:
 
 
Guidance:
 
Effective Tax reconciliation:
 
 
Operating Income / Margin reconciliation:
 
 
* Includes rounding adjustments.
Services Revenue Breakdown:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are aligned to how we manage the business and view the markets we serve. Our reportable segments are Services, Technology, and Other.
 
 


