FILE:KO/KO-8K-20040609103606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 9, 2004 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 001-02217 58-0628465 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction File Number) Identification No.) of incorporation) One Coca-Cola Plaza Atlanta, Georgia 30313 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (404)676-2121
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of a press release of The Coca-Cola Company, dated June 9, 2004, regarding Steven J. Heyer. Item 7(c). Exhibits Exhibit 99.1 Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company, dated June 9, 2004, regarding Steven J. Heyer.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. THE COCA-COLA COMPANY (REGISTRANT) Date: June 9, 2004 By:/s/ Clyde C. Tuggle ------------------------------ Clyde C. Tuggle Senior Vice President, Worldwide Public Affairs and Communications
Exhibit Index Exhibit No. - ------------ Exhibit 99.1 Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company, dated June 9, 2004, regarding Steven J. Heyer.

Exhibit 99.1 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY NEWS RELEASE Media Relations Department P.O. Box 1734, Atlanta, Georgia 30301 Telephone (404) 676-2121 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Sonya Soutus (404) 676-2683 STEVEN J. HEYER TO LEAVE THE COCA-COLA COMPANY ---------------------------------------------- ATLANTA, June 9, 2004 -- The Coca-Cola Company and Steven J. Heyer, president and chief operating officer, today announced that by mutual agreement Mr. Heyer will be leaving the Company after an orderly transition period. E. Neville Isdell, chairman and chief executive officer, said, "In discussions over the past week, Steve and I have looked at how he could best realize his personal goals given my election as chairman and chief executive officer of this Company. We agreed that Steve could best realize his aspirations by pursuing opportunities outside of the Company and we both also want to see his important work during the past three years transitioned in a professional and mutually beneficial manner. I am pleased that he has agreed to continue in his role as president and chief operating officer to effect an orderly transition over the next several months. "Steve has made meaningful contributions to The Coca-Cola Company and has been instrumental in helping to position the Company for the future. Over the last three years, Steve has been a key contributor to framing and implementing the six strategic priorities the Company has been pursuing with great success. On behalf of everyone at Coca-Cola, I want to thank Steve for his contributions and wish him and his family all the best as he goes on to what we know will be great achievements," Isdell said. Mr. Heyer said: "I have enjoyed my tenure at The Coca-Cola Company and am proud of what we have been able to accomplish. I believe that The Coca-Cola Company today is on a well-conceived strategic course and is hitting its stride both - more -
Page 2 of 2 financially and operationally. With outstanding new senior leadership coming on board, this is the right time for me to pursue new opportunities. Over the months ahead, I will do all I can to help Neville assure a smooth transition." The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company. Along with Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's best-known brand, the Company markets four of the world's top five soft drink brands, including diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite, and a wide range of other beverages, including diet and light soft drinks, waters, juices and juice drinks, teas, coffees and sports drinks. Through the world's largest distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate exceeding 1 billion servings each day. ###


