FILE:KO/KO-8K-20051130170110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 (b). Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors, Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On November 30, 2005, Maria Elena Lagomasino notified The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") of her decision not to stand for reelection to the Board of Directors of the Company at its 2006 Annual Meeting of Share Owners. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Item 9.01(d). Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit No.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
The Coca-Cola Company said today that Director Maria Elena (Mel) Lagomasino, who was recently named Chief Executive Officer of an affiliate of SunTrust Banks, Inc., has informed the Company that she will be unable to stand for reelection to The Coca-Cola Companys Board of Directors. Her decision follows her new employers request that she not serve as a Director of the Company having taken an executive position with Asset Management Advisors, a SunTrust affiliate.  Ms. Lagomasinos term will expire at the Companys Annual Meeting of Shareowners on April 19, 2006.
ATLANTA
,
Nov. 30, 2005
--
 
Ms. Lagomasino commented, It is with the greatest regret that I have taken this action, which I believe appropriate, as a result of my new leadership position at Asset Management Advisors.  I firmly believe that The Coca-Cola Company is on the right course to build future success, and I wish Neville Isdell and his executive team well as they continue to drive forward the Companys strategy.
           
    Neville Isdell, chairman and chief executive officer, said, We are extremely grateful to Mel for her service to our Company. We have certainly benefited from her wise counsel and perspectives, and we will miss her positive impact on our Company. We wish Mel much success in the next stage of her career; she will always have many supporters here at Coca-Cola.
   
 
Ms. Lagomasino has served as a Director of The Coca-Cola Company since February 2003.
 
             
            The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company.  Along with CocaCola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company markets four of the world's top five soft drink brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite, and a wide range of other beverages, including diet and light soft drinks, waters, juices and juice drinks, teas, coffees and sports drinks.  Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate exceeding 1 billion servings each day.  For more information about The CocaCola Company, please visit our website at .
www.cocacola.com
 
 


