FILE:KO/KO-8K-20060217154443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01
 
Entry into a Definitive Material Agreement.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") took the following actions:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") hereby agrees to award to the recipient named below (the Recipient) on the date set forth below (Grant Date) the number of shares of Common Stock, $.25 par value, of the Company (the "Shares"), in accordance with and subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions of this Agreement. If the conditions described below are satisfied, such award will be made under the terms of The Coca-Cola Company 1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan (the "Plan"), as amended, on the Grant Date.
 
 
Name of Recipient
:
XXXXXXXXXX
 
Target Award
:
 
XX,XXX Shares
 
Relevant Dates
: The following dates are applicable for this Agreement:
 
 
 
Performance Criteria
: The following performance criteria must be met for an award of Shares to be made under this Agreement. The number of Shares awarded on the Grant Date shall be determined from the Target Award and the following schedule:
 
 
 
The performance criteria shall be: compound annual growth in earnings per share. Earnings per share shall be defined as:
 
Numerator:
  
   
   
the numerator set forth in the definition of diluted earnings per share under United States Generally
                                        Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) (Financial Accounting Standard 128 and/or applicable
                                        standards and interpretations in effect for the year), excluding items as defined below.
 
divided by
 
Denominator:
  
the denominator set forth in the definition of diluted earnings per
share under U.S. GAAP
                                        (Financial Accounting Standard 128 and/or applicable standards and interpretations in effect for the
                                        year).
 
The calculation of compound annual growth in earnings per share shall be adjusted for significant structural changes, accounting changes, and non-recurring charges and gains for the base year and each year of the Performance Period.  [Each year of the Performance Period shall also be adjusted for the impact of currency exchange from the base year.]  Only such adjustments as are approved and certified by the Audit Committee shall be taken into account. The Compensation Committee may decrease but not increase any award. The intent of these adjustments is to provide a consistent year-to-year comparison of performance on the specified measure.
 
Compound annual growth rate in earnings per share shall be rounded to the nearest whole percentage point.
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Recipient is resident outside of the United States on the Grant Date, the Compensation Committee (or its designee), in its sole discretion, may select an alternate Grant Date which is not later than the Release Date. If the Compensation Committee (or its designee) selects such an alternate Grant Date, the Recipient will receive from Recipients employer a cash payment, less all applicable taxes, equal to the dividend that would be paid on an equivalent number of shares of Company Stock, beginning at the time a dividend would have been paid had Shares been Granted on the original Grant Date listed above.
 
 
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
Disability shall mean
a condition for which a Participant becomes eligible for and receives a disability benefit under the long term disability insurance policy issued to the Company providing Basic Long Term Disability Insurance benefits pursuant to The Coca-Cola Company Health and Welfare Benefits Plan, or under any other long term disability plan which hereafter may be maintained by the Company.
 
 
 
 
Retirement means an employees termination of employment on a date which is on or after the Recipient attains age 55 and has completed at least five years of service (service being defined as Years of Vesting Service under the Companys Employee Retirement Plan (the ERP), whether or not the employee is covered by the ERP). Notwithstanding the above, if an employee receiving serial severance benefits would have been eligible for Retirement as defined above had the employee continued his employment for a period equal to the period of the severance benefits, the employee will be deemed retired under this plan as of the date severance benefits begin.
 
For purposes of determining the date of the release of Shares, the date of Retirement shall be the last day the Recipient actively works prior to Retirement. The Retirement date is not extended if the Recipient receives serial severance benefits.
 
If there is more than one reason for separation, the following provisions apply. A) If a Recipient is eligible for Retirement and is transferred to a Related Company, the provisions governing transfer to a Related Company shall apply. B) If a Recipient is disabled and is eligible for Retirement, the provisions governing Disability shall apply.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
Prohibited Activities are:
 
 
 
10
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
(8)
 
 
Additional Consents
. The Recipient consents to and acknowledges that:
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 (10)         
Headings
. Paragraph headings are included for convenience and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
14
 
 
 
I have read the above Agreement and hereby accept the above award under the terms and conditions of this Agreement and I agree to be bound thereby and by the actions of the Compensation Committee.
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
,
_________________
hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto The Coca-Cola Company (the Company), a Delaware corporation (FEIN 58-628465), __________ shares of the Common Stock of the Company, standing in my name on the books of the Company, represented by Certificate(s) No(s). __________________ herewith, and do hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint any officer or any duly authorized representative of the Company attorney to transfer the said stock on the books of the Company with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 


