FILE:KO/KO-8K-20060912125836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On September 7, 2006, an employment agreement was entered into between Refreshment Services, S.A.S. (Refreshment Services), a subsidiary of The Coca-Cola Company, and Dominique Reiniche, President, European Union Group of The Coca-Cola Company. The agreement is effective from May 1, 2005 and details the terms and conditions of Ms. Reiniches employment. The material terms of the agreement provide for an annual base salary of 500,000 euros, a $100,000 sign-on bonus, and participation in an annual incentive plan and long-term equity programs, including stock options and performance share units. Ms. Reiniche will also receive certain benefits and perquisites, including health insurance, a retirement plan, and access to a vehicle and driver. Should Refreshment Services terminate the agreement, except for serious or gross misconduct, Ms. Reiniche would be entitled to twenty-four (24) months of pay, excluding any required termination indemnities under the applicable collective bargaining agreement. In the event the agreement is terminated, Ms. Reiniche agrees not to work for or be involved with a competing company for a period of six (6) months. In consideration of this noncompetition provision, Ms. Reiniche would receive six (6) months of pay in lieu of the payment provided for in the applicable collective bargaining agreement.
 
An English translation of the agreement, the original of which is in French, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Article 1. Hiring
 
 
 
Article 2. Duration of the Contract - Prior years of service
Article 3. Working time
Given the importance of her responsibilities, which imply a great deal of independence in organizing her working time, as well as her autonomy and her level of remuneration, Mrs. Reiniche comes under the category of "Executive level staff", and as such, the provisions governing work time (Title I and preliminary chapters, 1 and 2 of Title II, of Book II of the Labour Code) are not applicable to her.
Article 4. Work Place
Article 5. Remuneration
Article 6. Advance Notice and Termination Payments
This indemnity is intended to repair the entire prejudice suffered by Mrs. Reiniche due to the termination of her employment contract.
This clause shall not alter the rights of both parties with regard to the stock options, restricted shares and/or performance share units that may be granted to Mrs. Reiniche. Those items shall be governed solely by the separate provisions set out at the time they are granted, and shall not be considered in determining the indemnity amount.
 
Article 7. Paid Vacation
Mrs. Reiniche shall benefit from paid vacations granted to the Companys salaried employees under the conditions defined by the National Collective Bargaining Agreement. The period of these vacations is determined by an agreement between the management and Mrs. Reiniche, taking into account the needs of the Company.
Article 8. Confidentiality Clause
Mrs. Reiniche recognizes that her duties within our Company lead her to become aware of, to develop, discover, acquire or collect for our Company information or data that our Company considers confidential (hereinafter Confidential Information).
In particular, without being limitative, Confidential Information is considered to be any information, data, conversation, correspondence, report, contract or document, regardless of its form or medium and, in particular, paper, electronic, video and audio:
In general terms, Mrs. Reiniche agrees to maintain and/or to have maintained, at all times and in good faith, the strictly confidential or secret nature of the Confidential Information. In particular, Mrs. Reiniche agrees not to make any copy of the Confidential Information without the consent of our Company, to communicate said Confidential Information only to those of her colleagues and/or subordinates for whom the knowledge of this Confidential Information proves absolutely necessary for the performance of their duties in the Company and not to communicate any Confidential Information to any stranger to our Company without the consent of our Company.
Mrs. Reiniche agrees to use the Confidential Information only within the strict framework of the performance of her duties within our Company.
Mrs. Reiniche agrees to inform, as quickly as possible, the Company of any disclosure of Confidential Information made without its consent and of which she is aware, as well as to take any useful measure to limit the extent of this disclosure.
In the event Confidential Information is disclosed without the consent of our Company, Mrs. Reiniche agrees to observe the greatest discretion about this information and, in particular, agrees not to confirm, clarify or comment on her information without the consent of our Company.
Mrs. Reiniche shall honor these obligations throughout the duration of her employment with our Company and for five years following her termination of employment, regardless of the cause. Upon her departure, Mrs. Reiniche agrees to return to our Company all Confidential Information in her possession and not to make use of Confidential Information for another employer or for her without our prior express written consent.
Article 9. Non-competition clause
In view of her duties and of the information in her possession, Mrs. Reiniche
 
undertakes, in the event of termination of the contract of employment, for any reason whatsoever:
This ban on competition shall apply for a period of six (6) months and shall be limited to the following activities and departments: management or marketing responsibilities for a Competing Company within the European Union. It shall apply from the day on which Mrs. Reiniche actually leaves the Company.
In consideration for this obligation not to compete, Mrs. Reiniche shall receive, from the actual cessation of her activity, a payment equal to six (6) months of gross base pay  plus half (50%) of the annual incentive target amount, in lieu of the payment provided for in the National Collective Bargaining Agreement. The payment so calculated shall not be due in the event of a breach by Mrs. Reiniche of the ban on competition, without prejudice to the damages that may be claimed from her. The Company may release Mrs. Reiniche from the non-competition clause or reduce the term of such, subject to notifying the interested party within eight days following the notice of termination of the contract of employment. The consideration shall not be due in the event Mrs. Reiniches cessation of activity is due to incapacity, retirement, early retirement or death.
Article 10. Information Obligation
Mrs. Reiniche must declare to the Company immediately with supporting documents any change subsequent to her hiring occurring in her situation such that it is the result of the statements made or documents sent at the time of hiring. The last address given is the domicile chosen by the concerned party/parties and the Companys official notifications are validly made to this latter domicile.
The Company cannot be held liable for any disruptions that Mrs. Reiniche might suffer in the event that the information provided by her is inaccurate, as well as in the event that she has not indicated any change in situation sufficiently in advance.
Article 11. Complementary Health Insurance Scheme/Retirement Benefits/ Provident Scheme
Upon being hired, Mrs. Reiniche shall be covered by a provident and complementary health insurance scheme with GRAS SAVOYE - Statement No. 24-93883 Noisy-le-Grand Cedex, France. She shall also be covered by the executives retirement union, Union de Retraite des Cadres - Institution AGIRC (general association of executives retirement institutions) No. 8 - 21, rue Roger Salengro - 94137 Fontenay-sous-Bois Cedex, France.
 
As a bonus provision to attract Mrs. Reiniche to accept employment with the Company, Mrs. Reiniche will be eligible to participate in a complementary retirement scheme, retroactive to May 1, 2005, which the Company will put in place for executive-level individuals of the Company. The details of this program will be provided to Mrs. Reiniche at a later date. While it is not the Company's current intention to change the program, this may be modified at the Companys discretion should significant change occur in the economic, regulatory or tax and legal environments of the Group or significant tax or legal changes applicable to such complementary retirement schemes.
The Company shall also provide business travel accident insurance.
Article 12. Miscellaneous
This contract replaces and supersedes any prior agreement or undertaking whether in writing or verbal with Mrs. Reiniche regarding the duties which are the object of the present contract.
This contract is governed by the laws of France.
This contract has been drawn up in three (3) copies, one of which must be returned signed to the Company as quickly as possible, bearing the words read and approved.


