FILE:KO/KO-8K-20071211153827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 6, 2007, The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) announced that Muhtar Kent, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, was elected Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective July 1, 2008.  Mr. Kent will continue as President of the Company.  In addition, the Company announced that E. Neville Isdell, the Companys current Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer will remain Chairman of the Board of Directors until the Companys Annual Meeting of Shareowners in April 2009.
Mr. Kent, age 55, joined the Company in 1978 and held a variety of marketing and operations roles throughout his career with the Company. In 1985, he was appointed General Manager of Coca-Cola Turkey and Central Asia. From 1989 to 1995, Mr. Kent served as President of the East Central Europe Division and Senior Vice President of Coca-Cola International. Between 1995 and 1998, he served as Managing Director of Coca-Cola Amatil Limited-Europe, and from 1999 until 2005, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Efes Beverage Group and as a board member of Coca-Cola Icecek. Mr. Kent rejoined the Company in May 2005 as President, North Asia, Eurasia and Middle East Group, was appointed President, Coca-Cola International in January 2006 and was elected Executive Vice President in February 2006. He was elected to his current positions in December 2006.
A copy of the Companys press release making these announcements is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01                                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1                   Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company dated December 6, 2007.
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
 

               Media Relations Department
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
      
               P.O.  Box 1734, Atlanta, Georgia 30301
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
      
               Telephone (404) 676-2121
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
      
 
                  FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                                                                                              
           < font id="TAB2" style="LETTER-SPACING: 9pt;">   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
 
CONTACT:                                                  Investors:  Ann Taylor (404) 676-5383
 
Media: Dana Bolden
(404) 676-2683
The Coca-Cola Company today announced its Board of Directors has approved the recommendation of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Neville Isdell for an evolution of the Companys leadership structure.  Under the new structure, President and Chief Operating Officer Muhtar Kent will succeed Isdell as chief executive officer as of July 1, 2008.  Isdell will remain chairman of the Board of Directors until the Companys Annual Meeting of Shareowners in April 2009.
ATLANTA, Dec. 6, 2007 
 
The Coca-Cola Company is an enterprise of sustained, long-term growth.  Diligent, detailed succession planning is a vital part of that growth plan.  This next management step, which draws on the successful partnership between Muhtar and me, ensures that we will continue to grow and enhance Coca-Colas business around the world, said Isdell.  I have been engaged with the Management Development Committee and the full Board in succession discussions and planning since my return in June 2004.  We are very certain that Muhtar is prepared for this next transition in management responsibilities and is the absolute right person to take our Company to the next level of performance.
 
Having worked closely with Muhtar for nearly 20 years, I know that his combination of industry knowledge, passion for operational excellence, strategic vision and high level of interpersonal skills is the ideal blend to take our Company forward, Isdell added.  Muhtar is an outstanding example of the deep, talented group of individuals who populate our global system.  With the organization stabilized and sustainable growth clearly evident, I expect Muhtar to be outstanding as the leader of the committed team that developed and is now executing our Manifesto - our 10-year strategic growth plan.
 
James D. Robinson III, chairman of the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance, said:  The Board is pleased to have an individual of Muhtar Kents experience, vision and dedication to the business as the next chief executive officer of the Company.  Todays announcement signals a seamless transition from the remarkable leadership provided by Neville Isdell to an exceptional future under Muhtars highly professional guidance and direction.  In addition, the Company will have the benefit of Nevilles continued participation as chairman until the 2009 shareowners meeting.
 
Kent returned to The Coca-Cola Company in May 2005 as president of the North Asia, Eurasia and Middle East Group.  He was named president of Coca-Cola International in January 2006 and appointed president and chief operating officer of the Company in December 2006.  As COO, he has overseen a number of significant initiatives, including the acquisition of glacau earlier this year, while year-to-date the Company has delivered strong volume and double-digit earnings growth.
 
             
 
Kent first joined The Coca-Cola Company in 1978 and held a variety of marketing and operational roles leading to his appointment as president of the East Central European Division in 1989.  Kent held this position until 1995, overseeing 23 countries where, working closely with Isdell, he supervised the relaunch of Coca-Cola throughout East Central Europe in record time and quickly achieved market leadership in that geography, which the Company maintains to this day.
 
From 1995 to 1998, Kent was managing director of Coca-Cola Amatil Europe with bottling operations in 12 countries.  From 1999 until his return to the Company, Kent served as president and chief executive officer of the Efes Beverage Group, one of Europes largest international beverage businesses, and managing partner of
Coca-Cola Icecek, a public Coca-Cola bottling company with franchises in Turkey and surrounding countries.
 
The opportunity to lead The Coca-Cola Company is an extraordinary honor, and I am grateful to the Board for the confidence it has placed in me, said Kent.  I look forward to building on the strong foundation for sustainable growth that we have set in place for the Coca-Cola system around the world.
 
Kent, who continues as president of the Company, will add the CEO position on July 1, 2008.  Isdell will continue in the dual capacity of chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO until that date and remain chairman until April 2009.
 
We have accomplished a great deal in the last three and a half years, and I recognize my responsibilities  to the Company and to Muhtar  remain unfinished until Muhtar is successfully launched as CEO, said Isdell.  Management succession is the key final measure of any CEOs success, and I will do all I can to ensure our progress is secure for many years ahead.
 
 
The Coca-Cola Company
 
The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company. Along with
Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company markets four of the world's top five nonalcoholic sparkling brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite, and a wide range of other beverages, including diet and light beverages, waters, juices and juice drinks, teas, coffees, energy and sports drinks. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate exceeding 1.4 billion servings each day. For more information about The Coca-Cola Company, please visit our website at
.
www.thecoca-colacompany.com
: Images to accompany this story can be found in the Press Center Image Gallery at www.thecoca-colacompany.com.
NOTE TO EDITORS


