FILE:KO/KO-8K-20071024171129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02(d).  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) increased the size of the Board to 12 members and elected Alexis M. Herman, former U.S. Secretary of Labor, as a Director of the Company, effective immediately.  Secretary Herman was also appointed to the Public Issues and Diversity Review Committee of the Board.
Secretary Herman was the chairperson of a seven-person independent Task Force created to monitor the Companys compliance with the November 2000 discrimination lawsuit settlement.  She was formally appointed under a court-ordered process by both the Company and plaintiffs counsel.  Under the leadership of Secretary Herman, the Task Force worked with the Company to identify areas where the Company could improve its human resources programs and practices, and each year, assessed the Companys progress on specific human resources initiatives.  The fifth and final Task Force Report was submitted on December 1, 2006.  The courts order required the Company to compensate members of the Task Force for their work and pay their administrative expenses.  In 2006, Secretary Herman was paid $125,000 for her work as chairperson of the Task Force.  Also in 2006, the Company paid New Ventures, of which Secretary Herman is Chair and Chief Executive Officer, approximately $75,000 for administrative expenses, including staff assistance, and travel expenses related to her work on the Task Force.
A copy of the Companys press release announcing Secretary Hermans election to the Board is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01                                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1                                Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company dated October 18, 2007.
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
 
 

            0;  Exhibit 99.1
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
   
   
   
 
  
                  Media Relations Department
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
                      P.O. Box 1734, Atlanta, Georgia 30301
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
                 Telephone (404) 676-2121
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
The Coca-Cola Company
news release
  
                                                                                                         Contact: Dana Bolden
   
   
   0;
   
   
    
                                            (404) 676-2683
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
  
     
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
The Coca-Cola Company Board of Directors today elected former U.S. Secretary of Labor Alexis M. Herman as a Director of the Company, effective immediately.  As part of her election, Secretary Herman was appointed to the Public Issues and Diversity Review Committee of the Board.
ATLANTA, Oct. 18, 2007 --
 
Secretary Herman served as Americas 23rd Secretary of Labor and was the first African-American ever to lead the U.S. Department of Labor.  Secretary Herman currently serves as chair and chief executive officer of New Ventures, Chair of the Diversity Advisory Board of Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., and is a member of the boards of directors of Cummins Inc., Entergy Corporation and MGM Mirage.  She served as chairwoman of The Coca-Cola Companys Human Resources Task Force from 2001 to 2006.
 
Secretary Herman was appointed by President Jimmy Carter as the youngest director of the Women's Bureau in the history of the Labor Department.
 
A recipient of more than 20 honorary doctorate degrees from major colleges and universities, she also serves on the Board of Trustees of Xavier University of Louisiana and is a trustee of the National Labor College.  Her nonprofit work includes the National Urban League and the National Epilepsy Foundation as well as her role as co-chair of the Bush Clinton Katrina Fund.
 
 
 
The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company. Along with
Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company markets four of the world's top five nonalcoholic sparkling brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite, and a wide range of other beverages, including diet and light beverages, waters, juices and juice drinks, teas, coffees, energy and sports drinks. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate exceeding 1.4 billion servings each day. For more information about The
Coca-Cola Company, please visit our website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com.
: An image to accompany this story can be found in the Press Center Image Gallery at www.thecoca-colacompany.com.
NOTE TO EDITORS
           


