FILE:KO/KO-8K-20070424144501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 5.02(c).   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements with Certain Officers
 
 On April 19, 2007, the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) elected Harry L. Anderson as vice president and Controller of the Company, effective immediately. Mr. Anderson joined the Company in 2001 as senior vice president, Coca-Cola Ventures. From March 2003 until May 2004, he was vice president and director of Supply Chain and Manufacturing Management. From May 2004 to February 2007, Mr. Anderson served as chief financial officer of the Companys Coca-Cola North America group. In February 2007, he was appointed interim Controller of the Company.
   
Item 801.   Other Events
 
           The Companys Annual Meeting of Shareowners was held on Wednesday, April 18, 2007, in Wilmington, Delaware, at which the following matters were submitted to
a vote of the shareowners:
 
(a)
 
Votes regarding the election of the persons named below as Directors for a term expiring in 2008 were as follows:
(b)
 
Votes regarding ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditors of the Company to serve for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, were as follows:
 
 
2
(c)
 
Votes regarding the approval of the Performance Incentive Plan of the Company were as follows:
(d)
  
A shareowner proposal regarding management compensation was not submitted to a vote of the shareowners because neither the proponent nor a qualified representative of the proponent attended the meeting to present the proposal.
(e)
  
Votes on a shareowner proposal regarding an advisory vote on the Compensation Committee Report were as follows:
(f)
  
Votes on a shareowner proposal regarding chemical and biological testing were as follows:
(g)
  
Votes on a shareowner proposal regarding a study and report on extraction of water in India were as follows:
(h)
  
Votes on a shareowner proposal regarding restricted stock were as follows:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


