FILE:KO/KO-8K-20070402130058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
As previously announced, effective January 1, 2007, the Company made certain changes to its operating structure. The Company combined the Eurasia and Middle East Division and the Russia, Ukraine and Belarus Division, both of which were previously included in the North Asia, Eurasia and Middle East operating segment, with the India Division, previously included in the East, South Asia and Pacific Rim operating segment, to form the Eurasia operating segment; and combined the China Division and the Japan Division, previously included in the North Asia, Eurasia and Middle East operating segment, with the remaining East, South Asia and Pacific Rim operating segment to form the Pacific operating segment.
 
Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto sets forth a schedule of unaudited operating segment data reclassified primarily to reflect the new operating structure.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
            
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries
Reclassified Operating Segment Data
Unaudited
 
Unit Case Volume Growth Rate Based on Average Daily Sales (1)
 
Reclassified Operating Segment Data reflect changes in the Company's operating structure which became effective January 1, 2007.
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
 
  
 
 
 
For additional information about our sales volume, refer to page 43 of our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 21, 2007.
 
 
    
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
 
(1) Unit case volume growth based on average daily sales is computed by comparing the average daily sales in each of the corresponding quarters. Average daily sales for each quarter are the actual unit cases shipped during the quarter divided by the number of days in the quarter.
   
 
(2) Unit case volume and gallon sales growth rates are not necessarily equal during any given period. Items such as seasonality, bottlers' inventory practices, supply point changes, timing of price increases and new product introductions and changes in product mix can impact unit case volume and gallon sales and can create differences between unit case volume and gallon sales growth rates.
 
 
 
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries
Reclassified Operating Segment Data (1)
Unaudited
In Millions
 
Reclassified Operating Segment Data reflect changes in the Company's operating structure which became effective January 1, 2007.
 
(1) Refer to the Items Impacting Comparability Schedule which follows for additional information.
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries
Reclassified Operating Segment Data
Items Impacting Comparability Schedule
Unaudited
2005
In the first quarter of 2005, the Company recorded the following transactions which impacted results:
Coca-Cola Amatil in connection with the acquisition of SPC Ardmona Pty. Ltd., an Australian fruit company.
In the second quarter of 2005, the Company recorded the following transactions which impacted results:
In the third quarter of 2005, the Company recorded the following transactions which impacted results:
In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company recorded the following transactions which impacted results:
2006
 
In the first quarter of 2006, the Company recorded the following transactions which impacted results:
In the second quarter of 2006, the Company recorded the following transactions which impacted results:
In the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded the following transactions which impacted results:
In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded the following transactions which impacted results:


