FILE:KO/KO-8K-20071219144541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01.           Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 13, 2007, the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) amended the Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Compensation Plan) in order to provide that for the first 12 months of a new Directors tenure, he or she will receive $175,000 in cash, paid quarterly, or such other amount as may be determined by the Board of Directors for his or her first twelve months of service in lieu of participation in the performance component of the Compensation Plan for that period.  After the first 12 months, the new Director would participate in the Compensation Plan on the same basis as the other Directors.  A copy of the Compensation Plan, as amended and restated, is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02.            Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 13, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company increased the size of the Board to 13 members and elected Jacob Wallenberg, chairman of the Board of Investor AB, as a Director of the Company, both effective January 1, 2008.  Mr. Wallenberg was appointed to the Public Issues and Diversity Review Committee and the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance, effective January 1, 2008.
On December 13, 2007, the Board awarded both Mr. Wallenberg and Alexis M. Herman, who was elected a Director of the Company on October 18, 2007, a cash payment in the amount of $175,000, payable quarterly, as compensation for their first twelve months of service in accordance with the Compensation Plan.  This is in lieu of participation in the performance component of the Compensation Plan for that period.  After the first 12 months of service, they will participate in the ongoing performance component of the Compensation Plan on the same terms as the other Directors.
A copy of the Companys press release announcing the election of Mr. Wallenberg to the Board is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1                                Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Coca-ColaCompany, as amended and restated on December 13, 2007
Exhibit 99.2                                Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company dated December 13, 2007
                  
              
                   
              
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3

                                                                                   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
The Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Plan) is established effective as of January 1, 2006.  This Plan is in lieu of retainer, committee chair and meeting fees.
 
 
 
 
 
The following words and phrases as used herein shall have the meaning specified below, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context.
 
 shall mean an account maintained under the Plan for a Participant in accordance with Article III.
Account
 
 shall mean the person, persons or trust designated in writing by the Participant to receive any benefits from the Plan due to the death of the Participant.  If no Beneficiary is designated, the Beneficiary shall be the Participants spouse.  If no Beneficiary is designated and the Participant has no current spouse, the Beneficiary shall be the Participants estate.
Beneficiary
 
 shall mean the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company.
Board
 
 shall mean a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("1934 Act"), as in effect on January 1, 2002, provided that such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as (i) any "person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act as in effect on January 1, 2002) directly or indirectly, of securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power for election of directors of the then outstanding securities of the Company or any successor of the Company; (ii) during any period of two (2) consecutive years or less, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of the Company cease, for any reason, to constitute at least a majority of the Board, unless the election or nomination for election of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period; (iii) the shareowners of the Company approve any merger or consolidation as a result of which the Stock (as defined below) shall be changed, converted or exchanged (other than a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) or any liquidation of the Company or any sale or other disposition of 50% or more of the assets or earning power of the Company; or (iv) the shareowners of the Company approve any merger or consolidation to which the Company is a party as a result of which the persons who were shareowners of the Company immediately prior to the effective date of the merger or consolidation shall have beneficial ownership of less than 50% of the combined voting power for election of directors of the surviving corporation following the effective date of such merger or consolidation; provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if, prior to such times as a Change in Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred, the Board determines otherwise.
Change in Control
 
 
 shall mean The Coca-Cola Company.
Company
 
 shall mean a duly-appointed or elected member of the Board.
Director
 
 shall mean the first day of the first regular scheduled meeting of the Board of Directors in February.
Grant Date
 
 shall mean a corporation(s) or other business organization(s) in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the voting stock or capital at the relevant time.
Majority-Owned Related Company
 
 shall mean a Director who is eligible for the Plan in accordance with Article II and/or a former Director for whom an Account is maintained under the Plan.
Participant
 
 shall mean a period of years over which the Companys performance is measured for the purposes of benefits under this Plan.
Performance Period
 
 shall mean a quantifiable financial measure (such as growth in earnings per share, economic profit, etc.) that is set at the beginning of each Performance Period and that must be achieved during the Performance Period for the credited Share Units to be payable to a Director.
Performance Target
 
 shall mean the Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Coca-Cola Company.
Plan
 
 shall mean a hypothetical share of Stock that is credited to a Participants Account.
Share Unit
 
 shall mean the common stock of the Company.
Stock
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Participant has elected to defer the compensation as provided in Section 4.7 below, resulting in a cash payment pursuant to the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                                         
Exhibit 99.2
 
                                                                                                                 Media Relations Department                                                                                                                  P.O.  Box 1734, Atlanta, Georgia 30301                                                                                                                  Telephone (404) 676-2121
 
 
 
                  FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                                           
                 
CONTACT:                                                 Media: Dana Bolden
(404) 676-2683
 
 
 
 
The Coca-Cola Company Board of Directors today elected Jacob Wallenberg as a Director of the Company, effective January 1, 2008.
 ATLANTA, Dec. 13, 2007 --
   
 
Mr. Wallenberg is chairman of the Board of Investor AB, the largest industrial holding company in the Nordic region.  He also serves as vice-chairman of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEB), Atlas Copco AB, SAS AB and a board member of ABB Ltd, The Nobel Foundation, The Stockholm School of Economics and The Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
 
As part of his election, Mr. Wallenberg was appointed to the Public Issues and Diversity Review Committee and the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance.
 
Born in Stockholm, Mr. Wallenberg was educated at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, where he earned a bachelor of science in economics in 1980 and an MBA in 1981. After participating in extensive training programs at a number of international banks, Mr. Wallenberg joined SEB, a North European financial group, in 1984 and held various positions in Sweden, Singapore, Hong Kong, London and New York.
 
From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Wallenberg was deputy managing director of Investor AB. After rejoining the SEB Group in 1993, Mr. Wallenberg was appointed CEO in 1997 and was chairman of the board from 1998 to 2005.
 
Mr. Wallenberg attended the Royal Swedish Naval Academy and is today an officer in the Royal Swedish Naval Reserve.
 
The Board also elected William D. Hawkins III as vice president of the Company and appointed him general tax counsel.  Hawkins has worked in the Companys Office of General Tax Counsel since 1998 and will now lead the Companys tax policy and strategy team.
 
Prior to joining The Coca-Cola Company, Hawkins was a partner with the law firms of White & Case and, later, McClure, Trotter & Mentz in Washington, D.C.
 
Hawkins obtained his undergraduate and juris doctorate degrees from Wake Forest University and a master of laws in taxation degree from Georgetown University Law Center.
 
The Coca-Cola Company
 
The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company.  Along with Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company markets four of the world's top five nonalcoholic sparkling brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite, and a wide range of other beverages, including diet and light beverages, waters, juices and juice drinks, teas, coffees, energy and sports drinks.  Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate exceeding 1.4 billion servings each day. For more information about The Coca-Cola Company, please visit our website at .
www.thecoca-colacompany.com
 
 
 
Images related to this release can be found on .
NOTE TO EDITORS:
www.thecoca-colacompany.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
    
 
 
 


