FILE:KO/KO-8K-20080213071202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release of The Coca-Cola Company, dated February 13, 2008, reporting The Coca-Cola Company's financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2007. Such information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
news
release
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Coca-Cola Company today reported fourth quarter earnings per share of $0.52, an increase of 79 percent versus the prior year on a reported basis, and $0.58 after considering items impacting comparability, an increase of 12 percent. Earnings per share for the quarter included a net charge of $0.06 per share primarily related to restructuring charges and asset write-downs. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2006 were $0.29 and included a net charge
ATLANTA, Feb. 13, 2008
Page 2 of 22
of $0.23 per share primarily related to a non-cash impairment charge at Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("CCE"), an equity investee.
Earnings per share for the year were $2.57, an increase of 19 percent versus the prior year on a reported basis, and $2.70 after considering items impacting comparability, an increase of 14 percent. Earnings per share for the year included a net charge of $0.13 per share primarily related to restructuring charges and asset write-downs. Full year 2006 earnings per share were $2.16 and included a net charge of $0.21 per share primarily related to a non-cash impairment charge at CCE.
"This has been a year of significant accomplishment," said Neville Isdell, chairman and chief executive officer, The Coca-Cola Company. "We have delivered strong business results and increased value to our shareowners by expanding our consumer appeal across our beverage brands and connecting in very meaningful ways with the communities we serve. By successfully executing our clearly defined strategies with our bottling partners, we delivered 6 percent unit case volume growth for the year and four consecutive quarters of double-digit earnings per share growth.
"Importantly, this growth was balanced across our geographies and portfolio of brands. On a worldwide basis, sparkling beverage volume increased a solid 4 percent, and still beverages increased 12 percent. We remain focused on driving sustainable long-term growth and value for our shareowners, while delivering against our stakeholder needs each day. With our strategies in place, our expanded brand portfolio and our geographic balance, we are well prepared to respond to opportunities and challenges ahead and anticipate another good year in 2008."
President and chief operating officer Muhtar Kent said, "Clearly, our strategies are right and our execution is working as 2007 was a successful year for The Coca-Cola Company. As evident from our results, we consistently delivered on our promise of executing against our growth agenda. Our international business, led by the emerging markets, continues to drive our overall growth, while stabilizing key markets like Japan, the Philippines and North America underscores our ability to re-energize major markets. Our three-cola strategy has revitalized the sparkling category, and we successfully expanded our still portfolio through key acquisitions like glacau, Fuze and Jugos del Valle, while continuing to build our innovation pipeline. Additionally, our focus on effectiveness and efficiency has allowed us to reinvest in top-line growth. We
Page 3 of 22
continue to build a much more efficient, dynamic business in which our employees share an unyielding commitment to winning around the world.
"I am pleased with the progress we made against our 2007 priorities. We are now better positioned to capture the significant growth opportunities. As we look to 2008, the foundation is in place to deliver another successful year of balanced geographic and brand growth for The Coca-Cola Company."
(All references to growth rate percentages and share compare the results of the period to those of the prior year comparable period.)
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 22
Operational Highlights
(All references to unit case volume percentage changes in this section are computed based on average daily sales. Group operational highlights are reported in line with the Company's operating structure as described in the Company's Form 8-K filing dated October 29, 2007.)
Total Company
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 22
 
Africa
 
 
 
Eurasia
 
Page 6 of 22
 
 
European Union
 
 
Page 7 of 22
Zero launches and the three-cola strategy, The Coke Side of Life campaign, Christmas programs and activation of the Rugby World Cup.
 
Latin America
 
 
 
Page 8 of 22
continued success of Coca-Cola Zero contributed to volume and value share gains in sparkling beverages for the year. Double-digit unit case volume growth in still beverages for the quarter and year also led to share gains.
 
 
North America
 
 
 
Page 9 of 22
Classic, Coca-Cola Zero and Diet Coke all gaining share for the year. Coca-Cola Zero continued to deliver strong growth, increasing unit case volume double digits for the quarter and year. The Company's portfolio of energy drinks delivered strong double-digit growth in the quarter and year.
 
Pacific
 
 
 
Page 10 of 22
 
 
 
Bottling Investments
 
 
Page 11 of 22
benefits. The strong operating income increase for the year reflects the focus on investing to drive revenue growth while delivering efficiency through the supply chain.
Financial Review
Operating Results
 
Net operating revenues for the fourth quarter increased 24 percent, driven by a 6 percent increase in concentrate sales, an 8 percent benefit from structural change related to bottler acquisitions, an 8 percent currency benefit and a 2 percent favorable impact from pricing and mix. For the year, net operating revenues increased 20 percent, reflecting a 6 percent increase in concentrate sales, an 8 percent benefit from structural changes related to bottler acquisitions, a 4 percent benefit from currency and a 2 percent favorable impact from pricing and mix.
Cost of goods sold increased 28 percent for the quarter. This reflects a 6 percent increase in concentrate sales, an 8 percent increase from currency and a 14 percent increase from structural changes related to bottler acquisitions. For the year, cost of goods sold increased 27 percent. This reflects a 6 percent increase in concentrate sales, a 4 percent increase from currency, a 14 percent increase from structural changes related to bottler acquisitions and increases in commodity-based input and freight costs.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 17 percent for the quarter and 16 percent for the year, reflecting continued investments in marketing, increased costs to drive growth in the consolidated bottling operations, including acquisitions, increased sales and service costs for certain brand acquisitions, while effectively managing general and administrative expenses through productivity initiatives. Currency increased selling, general and administrative expenses 7 percent in the quarter and 4 percent for the year.
The Company had other operating charges in the fourth quarter and full year amounting to $125 million and $254 million pre-tax, respectively, primarily related to restructuring charges and asset write-downs.
 
Page 12 of 22
Operating income increased 26 percent for the quarter and 15 percent for the year, reflecting the revenue growth, partially offset by increases in cost of goods sold, the investments in marketing and increased sales and service expenses in the bottling operations. After considering items impacting comparability, operating income increased 19 percent for the quarter and 14 percent for the year. Currency benefited ongoing operating income by 9 percent in the quarter and 4 percent for the year. Based on the anticipated benefits of hedging coverage in place, the Company currently expects currencies to have a minimal impact on operating income in 2008.
The increase in interest expense for the quarter and year is due to higher debt balances related to the financing of acquisitions, including the acquisition of glacau, earlier in the year.
Effective Tax Rate
The reported effective tax rates for the quarter and the year were 25.2 percent and 24.0 percent, respectively. The underlying effective tax rate on operations for the quarter and year was 22.0 percent. For the quarter and year, the variance between the reported rate and the underlying rate was primarily due to changes in income tax reserves and the tax impact of various separately disclosed items impacting comparability.
The Company anticipates that its underlying effective tax rate on operations for the full year 2008 will be approximately 22.0 to 22.5 percent. The Company's estimated underlying effective tax rate does not reflect the impact of discrete events, which, if and when they occur, are separately recognized in the appropriate period.
Operating Structure
As previously announced, effective January 1, 2007, the Company made certain changes to its operating structure to align geographic responsibility. This new structure resulted in the reconfiguration of two operating segments which were renamed Eurasia Group and Pacific Group. The reconfiguration did not impact the other existing geographic operating segments, Bottling Investments or Corporate. Reclassified operating segment information can be found in the Company's Form 8-K filing dated October 29, 2007.
Page 13 of 22
Items Impacting Prior Year Results
In 2006, the fourth quarter results included a net charge of $0.23 per share primarily related to the non-cash impairment charge at CCE, an equity investee. In 2006, the third quarter results included a charge primarily related to asset impairment and restructuring charges, offset by a benefit primarily related to the reversal of a tax valuation allowance. In 2006, the second quarter results included a net benefit of $0.04 per share primarily due to a gain from the sale of shares in the initial public offering of the Turkish bottler, Coca-Cola Icecek A.S. In 2006, the first quarter results included a net reduction of $0.02 per share primarily related to non-cash impairment charges of certain assets and investments in the bottling operations in Asia.
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call with investors and analysts to discuss the fourth quarter and full year 2007 results today at 8:30 a.m. (EST). The Company invites investors to listen to the live audiocast of the conference call at the Company's website, in the "Investors" section. A replay in downloadable MP3 format will also be available within 24 hours after the audiocast on the Company's website. Further, the "Investors" section of the Company's website includes a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures that may be used periodically by management when discussing the Company's financial results with investors and analysts.
www.thecoca-colacompany.com
 
Page 14 of 22
 
 
 
Page 15 of 22
 
 
 
Page 16 of 22
 
 
Page 17 of 22
 
 
Page 18 of 22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 19 of 22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 20 of 22
 
 
 
 
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used in managing the business may provide users of this financial information additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior operating periods. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide additional meaningful reflection of underlying trends of the business because they provide a comparison of historical information that excludes certain items that impact the overall comparability. Management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures in making financial, operating and planning decisions and in evaluating the Company's performance. See the Tables above for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures for the three months ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Page 21 of 22
 
 
 
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used in managing the business may provide users of this financial information additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior operating periods. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide additional meaningful reflection of underlying trends of the business because they provide a comparison of historical information that excludes certain items that impact the overall comparability. Management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures in making financial, operating and planning decisions and in evaluating the Company's performance. See the Tables above for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Page 22 of 22
The Coca-Cola Company
The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company. Along with Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company markets four of the world's top five nonalcoholic sparkling brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite, and a wide range of other beverages, including diet and light beverages, waters, juices and juice drinks, teas, coffees, energy and sports drinks. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate of 1.5 billion servings each day. For more information about The Coca-Cola Company, please visit our website at .
www.thecoca-colacompany.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally, the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from The Coca-Cola Company's historical experience and our present expectations or projections. These risks include, but are not limited to, obesity concerns; scarcity and quality of water; changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment, including changes in consumer preferences based on health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns; shifting consumer tastes and needs, changes in lifestyles and increased consumer information; increased competition; our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets; foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations; our ability to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners; the financial condition of our bottlers; our ability to maintain good labor relations, including our ability to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms and avoid strikes or work stoppages; increase in the cost of energy; increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of raw materials; changes in laws and regulations relating to beverage containers and packaging, including mandatory deposit, recycling, eco-tax and/or product stewardship laws or regulations; adoption of significant additional labeling or warning requirements; unfavorable economic and political conditions in international markets, including civil unrest and product boycotts; changes in commercial or market practices and business model within the European Union; litigation uncertainties; adverse weather conditions; our ability to maintain brand image and product quality as well as other product issues such as product recalls; changes in legal and regulatory environments; changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements; our ability to achieve overall long-term goals; our ability to protect our information systems; additional impairment charges; our ability to successfully manage Company-owned bottling operations; global or regional catastrophic events; and other risks discussed in our Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which filings are available from the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The Coca-Cola Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


