FILE:KO/KO-8K-20081215180226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)           On December 11, 2008, E. Neville Isdell, Chairman of the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company ) notified the Board of Directors of the Company that he does not intend to stand for re-election to the Board of Directors of the Company at the Companys 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareowners.
A copy of the Companys press release announcing Mr. Isdells decision not to stand for re-election to the Board of Directors of the Company is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01                                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                   
                                                                                      
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
      
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
                                              60;                                                           Contact:     Dana Bolden
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                (404) 676-2683
   
   
   
  
  
   
The Coca-Cola Company announced today that it received a letter from its Chairman of the Board, Neville Isdell, confirming that, consistent with the succession plan announced in December 2007, he will not stand for re-election to the Board of Directors at the April 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareowners. James D. Robinson III, Presiding Director of The Coca-Cola Company, also announced that the Board intends to elect President and Chief Executive Officer Muhtar Kent to succeed Mr. Isdell as Chairman of the Board following the April Annual Meeting of Shareowners.
ATLANTA, Dec.11, 2008 
 
I have always believed that well-conceived and well-executed succession planning is a vital responsibility of public company boards, said Mr. Isdell. We met that responsibility when we announced one year ago just such a plan, including placing the future leadership of the Company in the experienced and talented hands of Muhtar Kent, who is providing outstanding leadership as he manages both for today and tomorrow.
About The Coca-Cola Company
 
The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 450 sparkling and still brands. Along with Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company's portfolio includes 12 other billion dollar brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, PowerAde, Minute Maid and Georgia Coffee. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, juices and juice drinks and ready-to-drink teas and coffees. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate of 1.5 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that protect the environment, conserve resources and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. For more information about our Company, please visit our Web site at .
www.thecoca-colacompany.com


