FILE:KO/KO-8K-20080716172531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 16, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) approved a form of stock option agreement to be used in connection with grants of awards made under The Coca-Cola Company 2008 Stock Option Plan (the 2008 Plan).  As reported in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 22, 2008, the 2008 Plan became effective on April 16, 2008 when it was approved by the Companys shareowners at the 2008 annual meeting
.
A copy of the form of stock option agreement is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01                                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
  2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Merrill Lynch Account Number:
The Coca-Cola Company ("KO") hereby grants to the optionee named below options to purchase KO common stock at the price per share set forth below, subject to the provisions of this Agreement together with the provisions of The Coca-Cola Company 2008 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"):
 
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning provided in the Plan.  The Plan is incorporated into, and made a part of, this Agreement.
The Plan describes the impact upon vesting and the expiration of options of the following events:  death, Disability, Retirement, Change in Control, various types of leaves of absence, termination of employment, change in KO's investment in the optionee's employer which results in the employer no longer meeting the definition of a Related Company under the Plan, and transfer of employment to a Related Company.
[Option 2  No Accelerated Vesting at Retirement]
The Plan describes the impact upon vesting and the expiration of options of the following events:  death, Disability, Change in Control, various types of leaves of absence, termination of employment, change in KO's investment in the optionee's employer which results in the employer no longer meeting the definition of a Related Company under the Plan, and transfer of employment to a Related Company.  For the purposes of vesting, the treatment of Retirement as described in the Plan shall not apply to this grant.  For this grant, there shall be no accelerated vesting at Retirement.  Upon optionees Retirement, only those options that have vested as described in subsection (b) below may be exercised; the remainder are forfeited.  The impact of Retirement on the exercise period of vested options shall be as provided in the Plan.
The optionee agrees to pay to Merrill Lynch any costs associated with the sale of shares of KO common stock acquired upon exercise of the options (whether such shares are sold to pay the option exercise price, to satisfy tax withholding requirements or for other reasons).
For employees in Switzerland, the optionee agrees that the taxation of the options will occur at the time the options are exercised.
Optionee may be released from the effects of this Section 5 if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that such action is in the best interest of KO and its stockholders.
Optionee expressly acknowledges and affirms that the foregoing provisions of this Section 4 are material and important terms of this Agreement, and optionee expressly agrees that if all or any part or application of the foregoing provisions of this Section 5 are held or determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever by a court of competent jurisdiction in an action between optionee and KO, KO shall be entitled to receive from optionee, in exchange for the exercise price per share shown above, all shares of KO common stock acquired by optionee upon exercise of any portion of the option and held by optionee.  If optionee has sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of any shares of KO common stock acquired by optionee upon exercise of any portion of the option, KO shall be entitled to receive from optionee the gain associated with such sale, transfer or disposal, plus interest calculated through the date of payment to KO.  The gain associated with the sale, transfer or other disposal of any share of KO common stock acquired by optionee upon exercise of any portion of the option shall be the closing price per share on the date of such sale, transfer or disposal, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions listing, less the option exercise price per share shown above, multiplied by the number of shares of KO common stock sold, transferred or disposed of.  Interest shall be calculated using the weighted prime rate at SunTrust Bank, Atlanta.
 
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith at Merrill Lynch Group Employee Services
Attention:  The Coca-Cola Company Stock Option Plan Unit
1400 Merrill Lynch Drive
Mail Stop 04-BS-PRO
Pennington, New Jersey 08534, USA
      All notices to KO shall be addressed as follows:      Director, Executive Compensation
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, Georgia 30313, USA
 
 
9.   .  The optionee consents and acknowledges that:
Additional consents
10.  .  This Agreement has been made in and shall be construed under and in accordance with
Governing law
the laws of the State of Delaware, USA.
11.  .  Paragraph headings are included for convenience and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation
Headings
 of this Agreement.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
By:  The Committee
                                                                  
Authorized Signature
Using the Merrill Lynch voice response system or other available means, the optionee must accept the above options to purchase shares of KO common stock in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, acknowledge that he or she has read this Agreement and the Plan, and agree to be bound by this Agreement, the Plan and the actions of the Committee.  If he or she does not do so prior to [Date], then KO may declare the option grant null and void at any time. Also, in the unfortunate event that death occurs before this Agreement has been accepted, this option grant will be voided, which means the options will terminate automatically and cannot be transferred to the optionee's heirs pursuant to the optionee's will or the laws of descent and distribution.
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the term Prohibited Activity shall include any and all of the following:
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or shall be interpreted as diminishing or otherwise limiting KOs right under applicable state law or any prior agreement I have signed or made with KO regarding trade secrets, confidential information, or intellectual property.
 
 


