FILE:KO/KO-8K-20081021160254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.            Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) increased the size of the Board to 15 members and elected Maria Elena Lagomasino, Chief Executive Officer of GenSpring Family Offices, LLC, as a Director of the Company.  Ms. Lagomasino was appointed to the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance and the Compensation Committee.
Ms. Lagomasino will be paid $175,000, in cash, as compensation for her first twelve months of service in accordance with the Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Coca-Cola Companyas amended and restated on December 13, 2007 (the Compensation Plan), which amount will be paid in equal quarterly installments.  This is in lieu of participation in the performance component of the Compensation Plan for that period.  After the first 12 months of service, she will participate in the ongoing performance component of the Compensation Plan on the same terms as the other Directors.
,
A copy of the Companys press release announcing the election of Ms. Lagomasino to the Board is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.            Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1            Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company dated October 16, 2008
 
 
  2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Media Relations Department
P.O. Box 1734, Atlanta, Georgia 30301
Telephone (404) 676-2121
The Coca-Cola Company
news
release
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                                                                                     
   
   
   
   
   
        
   
   
   
   
CONTACT: Dana Bolden
   
                
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
(404) 676-2683
-- The Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company today elected Maria Elena Lagomasino as a Director of the Company.
ATLANTA, Oct. 16, 2008
 
Ms. Lagomasino is chief executive officer of GenSpring Family Offices, one of the nations premier wealth management firms. As part of her election,
Ms. Lagomasino will serve on the Companys Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance and Compensation Committee. She previously served as a Director of the Company from 2003 to 2006.
 
A recognized leader in the wealth management industry, Ms. Lagomasino was chairman and chief executive officer of JP Morgan Private Bank, a division of JP Morgan Chase & Co., from 2001 to 2005. Prior to assuming this position,
Ms. Lagomasino was managing director at The Chase Manhattan Bank, in charge of its Global Private Banking Group. Ms. Lagomasino had been with Chase Manhattan since 1983. She began her banking career at Citibank in 1977.
 
     A graduate of Manhattanville College (B.A.), Ms. Lagomasino also completed graduate work at both Columbia University (M.S.) and Fordham University (M.B.A.).
   
 
She serves on the Boards of Avon Products, Inc. and Lincoln Center Theater and is a Trustee on the Board of the National Geographic Society.
 
The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 450 sparkling and still brands. Along with Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company's portfolio includes 12 other billion dollar brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, POWERade, Minute Maid and Georgia Coffee. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, juices and juice drinks and ready-to-drink teas and coffees. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate of 1.5 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that protect the environment, conserve resources and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. For more information about our Company, please visit our website at .
www.thecoca-colacompany.com
: An Image to accompany this story can be found in Our Company Leadership section at .
NOTE TO EDITORS
www.thecoca-colacompany.com


