FILE:KO/KO-8K-20080702171203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
In accordance with the previously announced senior leadership succession plan, The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) completed its transition as Muhtar Kent became the Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective July 1, 2008.  Mr. Kent succeeds E. Neville Isdell, age 65, who will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors and an employee of the Company until the Companys Annual Meeting of Shareowners in April 2009.  Mr. Kent will continue as President of the Company.  Mr. Kent was elected to the Board of Directors of the Company at its Annual Meeting of Shareowners held on April 16, 2008.
Mr. Kent, age 55, joined the Company in 1978 and held a variety of marketing and operations roles throughout his career with the Company.  In 1985, he was appointed General Manager of Coca-Cola Turkey and Central Asia.  From 1989 to 1995, Mr. Kent served as President of the East Central Europe Division and Senior Vice President of Coca-Cola International.  Between 1995 and 1998, he served as Managing Director of Coca-Cola Amatil Limited-Europe, and from 1999 until 2005, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Efes Beverage Group and as a board member of Coca-Cola Icecek. Mr. Kent rejoined the Company in May 2005 as President and Chief Operating Officer of the North Asia, Eurasia and Middle East Group, was appointed President, Coca-Cola International in January 2006 and was elected Executive Vice President of the Company in February 2006. He was elected President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in December 2006.
A copy of the Companys press release making these announcements is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01                                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1                                Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company dated July 1, 2008.
  2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Media Relations Department
P.O.  Box 1734, Atlanta, Georgia 30301
Telephone (404) 676-2121
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  
Contact:  Dana Bolden
(404) 676-2683
 
 
 The Coca-Cola Company today completed its executive leadership transition as Muhtar Kent officially became the Companys new chief executive officer.
ATLANTA, July 1, 2008
 
Kent, 55, follows Neville Isdell, 65, who will remain chairman of the Board through the Companys Annual Meeting of Shareowners in April 2009. Kent remains president of the Company.
 
Speaking for the Coca-Cola Board of Directors, Presiding Director James D. Robinson III thanked Isdell for his years of service, applauded the orderly transition and expressed enthusiasm for Kents appointment.
 
The Board recognizes Nevilles significant achievements and we look forward to working with him as our chairman through April 2009. Neville and the rest of the Board now look to Muhtar to take The Coca-Cola Company to the next level of success, said Robinson. This has been a very smooth and transparent leadership transition, which speaks well for the health and future of The Coca-Cola Company. Neville has done an outstanding job bringing The Coca-Cola Company back to fighting form. We have full confidence in Muhtar as CEO and in his intense focus on continuing to win in the marketplace. His blend of operational excellence, vision and dynamic leadership are exactly what our Company needs.   
 
The Coca-Cola Company is the worlds largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 450 sparkling and still brands. Along with Coca-Cola,
 
 
 
- more-
 
 
recognized as the worlds most valuable brand, the Companys portfolio includes
12 other billion dollar brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite,
Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, PowerAde, Minute Maid and Georgia Coffee. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, juices and juice drinks and ready-to-drink teas and coffees. Through the worlds largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Companys beverages at a rate of 1.5 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that protect the environment, conserve resources and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. For more information about our Company, please visit our website at .
www.thecoca-colacompany.com


