FILE:KO/KO-8K-20090721083929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.               Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release of The Coca-Cola Company, dated July 21, 2009, reporting The Coca-Cola Company's financial results for the second quarter and half year 2009.  Such information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CONTACT:    Investors: Jackson Kelly
(404) 676-7563
 
Media:  Dana Bolden
(404) 676-2683
 
Today, our Company reports continued growth in unit case volume, which drove global gains in volume and value share, as well as continued year-to-date growth
in line with our long-term revenue and profit targets.
 
                 
Strong worldwide unit case volume growth of 4 percent in the quarter and 3 percent year-to-date; international unit case volume growth of 5 percent in the quarter and 4 percent year-to-date.
 
                 
Global volume and value share gains continued, with gains across most key markets and categories.
 
                 
Year-to-date reported operating income down 6 percent. Year-to-date comparable currency neutral operating income growth of 9 percent, exceeding our long-term growth target.
 
                 
Second quarter reported EPS was $0.88, up 44 percent versus prior year. Comparable EPS was $0.92, down 9 percent versus prior year reflecting negative currency impact.
 
                 
Strong cash generation, with year-to-date cash from operations increasing 14 percent.
 
                 
Productivity initiatives on track to achieve $500 million in annualized savings by year-end 2011; with plans to deliver more than half of the savings by year-end 2009.
 
 
 Today, The Coca-Cola Company reports healthy second quarter 2009 operating results with unit case volume increasing 4 percent, successfully cycling 3 percent growth in the prior year quarter.  Internationally, we achieved broad-based unit case volume growth of 5 percent, cycling 5 percent growth in the prior year quarter. In the quarter, unit case volume growth increased strongly in key emerging markets with 33 percent growth in India and 14 percent growth in China.  We realized sound unit case volume growth in other key markets around the world including Japan, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Thailand, Korea and Northwest Europe.
ATLANTA, July 21, 2009
 
including juices and juice drinks, sports drinks, teas and water brands. Still beverage unit case volume increased 12 percent internationally and 1 percent in North America.
Globally, we gained volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages for the eighth consecutive quarter.  Through our global Open Happiness campaign, we continue to grow brand Coca-Cola, up 3 percent in the quarter.  Notably, brand Coca-Cola growth was strong across both developed and emerging markets including 3 percent growth in Mexico, 5 percent growth in Japan, 6 percent growth in China and 29 percent growth in India.  Sparkling beverage unit case volume increased 2 percent in the quarter, with international sparkling beverage unit case volume increasing 4 percent, cycling 2 percent growth.  Still beverage unit case volume increased 8 percent in the quarter, led by sound growth across the portfolio,
 
continuetodeliversolidoperatingperformance,"saidMuhtarKent,chairmanandchiefexecutiveofficer,TheCoca-ColaCompany."Inthefirsthalfoftheyear,wedeliveredvolumeandprofitresultsinlinewithourlong-termgrowthtargets,despiteverychallengingglobaleconomicconditions.Weoutperformedthenonalcoholicready-to-drinkindustryinmostofourkeymarketsanddrovefurtherglobalvolumeandvaluesharegains.Ourconsistentstrategiesareworking,andtogether withourproductivityefforts,weareprudentlyfocusedoninvestinginthelong-termgrowthofourresilientbusiness.OurinvestmentsinkeygrowthmarketscontributedtothegoodperformanceinChina,Mexico,IndiaandBrazil.And,withourdisciplinedapproachtoproductivityinitiatives,weremainontracktoachieveour$500milliontargetinannualizedsavingsby2011andexpecttodelivermorethanhalfofthesavingsbytheendofthisyear."
"We
 
 
 
inevitably strengthened by attractive demographic shifts, rapid urbanization, renewed entrepreneurial energy and improved consumer sentiment.  These trends bode well for the future of The Coca-Cola Company and our system."
"We have also begun rolling out our 2020 Vision, the roadmap for winning together with our worldwide bottling partners.  Our 2020 Vision roadmap is bringing new clarity and focus to our global business and is ensuring that our system is ideally positioned to make the most of the abundant opportunities ahead of us.  We believe our unique global franchise model is the best way to win in the market, while providing sustainable profitable growth for our customers and shareowners.  Our priorities remain centered on superior execution to drive value for today while strategically investing in growth for tomorrow.  Over the next decade, we expect to see a global economy
 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
second quarter of 2008.  Items impacting comparability reduced second quarter operating income by $72 million in 2009 and by $110 million in 2008.  After considering these items, operating income was down 10 percent in the quarter. As in the first quarter, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar continued to impact our results.  Excluding the impact of currency, operating income increased 4 percent in the quarter on a comparable basis.  Year-to-date 2009, reported operating income decreased 6 percent, while comparable currency neutral operating income increased 9 percent, exceeding our long-term growth target.
Our reported operating income decreased 9 percent in the quarter versus the
 
For the second quarter of 2009, we are reporting earnings per share of $0.88, a 44 percent increase versus the second quarter of 2008.  Reported earnings per share for the second quarter of 2009 and 2008 included a net charge of $0.04 and $0.40 per share, respectively, primarily related to charges recorded by our equity method investees, restructuring charges and asset write-downs.  After considering the items impacting comparability, earnings per share in the quarter were $0.92, a decrease of 9 percent versus the second quarter of 2008.  Year-to-date 2009, reported earnings per share increased 18 percent, while comparable earnings per share decreased 7 percent.  Earnings per share continue to be negatively impacted by the relative strength of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies around the world.
OPERATING REVIEW
 
 
 
Eurasia & Africa
 
Our Eurasia and Africa Group's unit case volume increased 7 percent in the quarter, successfully cycling 6 percent growth in the prior year quarter.  Year-to-date, unit case volume increased 5 percent, cycling 6 percent growth in the prior year.  Net revenues for the quarter decreased 8 percent, reflecting a double-digit negative impact from currencies, partially offset by positive pricing and mix and a 2 percent increase in concentrate sales.  Operating income in the quarter decreased
                 
10 percent, reflecting the decrease in net revenues primarily related to currency, and the continued investment in key marketing and business initiatives.
 
Eurasia and Africa delivered solid unit case volume growth, with sparkling beverages increasing 6 percent and still beverages increasing 13 percent in the quarter.  Unit case volume increased across most markets in the quarter, led by India increasing 33 percent, cycling 6 percent growth in the prior year.  India gained volume and value share in both sparkling and still beverages.  Southern Eurasia increased unit case volume 5 percent in the quarter, cycling 11 percent growth in the prior year.
                 
 
In the quarter, unit case volume growth was even in South Africa, increased 9 percent in Nigeria, increased 15 percent in Pakistan and increased 4 percent in Turkey.  Russia's unit case volume declined 9 percent in the quarter, reflecting the impact of a continued challenging macroeconomic environment.
                 
 
Europe
 
Our Europe Group's unit case volume increased 1 percent in the quarter, cycling even volume performance in the prior year quarter, reflecting a challenging macroeconomic environment.  Year-to-date, unit case volume decreased 1 percent, cycling 2 percent growth in the prior year.  Net revenues for the quarter decreased 17 percent, primarily driven by a double-digit negative impact from currencies and a 2 percent decrease in concentrate sales, partially offset by positive pricing and mix.  Operating income decreased 15 percent reflecting the impact of the lower net revenues, primarily related to currency, partially offset by tight expense control.
                 
 
Unit case volume growth in Northwest Europe was partially offset by weakness in Spain and Eastern Europe due to significant macroeconomic challenges in those regions.
                 
 
In the quarter, Europe gained value share, and volume and value share across key countries.
                 
Latin America
 
Our Latin America Group continued to deliver strong unit case volume growth of 6 percent in the quarter, successfully cycling 7 percent growth in the prior year quarter.  Year-to-date, unit case volume increased 6 percent, cycling 8 percent growth in the prior year. Net revenues for the quarter decreased 6 percent, primarily due to a double-digit negative impact from currencies, partially offset by an 8 percent increase in concentrate sales and positive pricing and mix.  Operating income for the quarter decreased 11 percent reflecting the net revenue decrease, primarily related to currency, and continuing investment in key marketing and business initiatives.
                 
 
Strong unit case volume growth of 6 percent in the quarter was led by a 6 percent increase in Mexico, a 5 percent increase in Brazil and a 6 percent increase in Argentina.
                 
 
Latin America delivered growth across the portfolio with sparkling beverages increasing 3 percent and still beverages increasing 24 percent for the quarter.  Notably brand Coca-Cola grew 4 percent and Trademark Coca-Cola grew 3 percent in the quarter.
                 
 
North America
 
Our North America Group's unit case volume declined 1 percent in the quarter primarily due to the continuing difficult macroeconomic environment partially offset by holiday shifts into the quarter and strong customer and consumer programs.  In the quarter, Retail unit case volume declined 4 percent, while Foodservice and Hospitality unit case volume increased 7 percent, due to strong growth in still beverages through tea, coffee and smoothies, as well as improving trends in sparkling beverages.  Year-to-date, unit case volume decreased 2 percent, cycling even volume growth in the prior year. Net revenues for the quarter decreased 2 percent, reflecting a 1 percent decrease in concentrate sales and a 1 percent negative currency impact.  Operating income was even in the quarter reflecting tight expense control and a benefit from productivity initiatives.
                 
North America grew volume share slightly in the quarter and gained significant value share for the third consecutive quarter.
                 
 
Though integrated marketing programs positively impacted sparkling beverages and improved brand health, unit case volume for sparkling beverages declined 2 percent in the quarter reflecting industry-leading bottler pricing. Importantly,  Coca-Cola Zero unit case volume grew 24 percent in the quarter, delivering more than 12 consecutive quarters of double-digit growth.
                 
 
Still beverage unit case volume increased 1 percent in the quarter, led by strong performance in our Foodservice and Hospitality business. Strong share performance of Fuze, glacau and Trademark Simply led to share gains for the eighth consecutive quarter. Additionally, the performance of these premium brands delivered significant value share gains in the quarter.
                 
 
Pacific
 
Our Pacific Group delivered unit case volume growth of 6 percent in the quarter, successfully cycling 5 percent growth in the prior year quarter. Year-to-date, unit case volume growth increased 5 percent, cycling 7 percent growth in the prior year. Net revenues for the quarter were even, reflecting an 8 percent increase in concentrate sales offset by negative country mix. Operating income for the quarter decreased 2 percent reflecting even net revenues and continued investments in key business initiatives and marketing efficiencies.
                 
 
Pacific delivered unit case volume growth across the portfolio with sparkling beverages increasing 7 percent and still beverages increasing 5 percent in the quarter. Importantly, Trademark Coca-Cola grew 6 percent in the quarter.
                 
 
In China, unit case volume grew 14 percent in the second quarter driven by double-digit growth in Trademark Sprite and Minute Maid as well as high single-digit growth in Trademark Coca-Cola, contributing to volume and value share gains across sparkling and still beverages.
                 
 
In Japan, unit case volume growth was 2 percent in the quarter and continued to outperform the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink industry resulting in the fifth consecutive quarter of share gains. Sparkling beverage unit case volume grew 6
                 
percent in the quarter, led by Trademark Coca-Cola with unit case volume growth of 10 percent. Still beverage unit case volume growth of 1 percent was driven by unit case volume growth of 9 percent in Sokenbicha partially offset by a unit case volume decline in Georgia Coffee. Due to the weak economy, Georgia Coffee was negatively impacted by shifts away from the at-work vending channel.
Bottling Investments
 
Our Bottling Investments Group's unit case volume decreased 3 percent in the quarter, reflecting bottling divestitures in the prior year partially offset by organic growth. Net revenues decreased 17 percent in the quarter reflecting prior year divestitures, a double-digit negative currency impact and negative mix. Operating income declined 22 percent primarily driven by the prior year divestitures and a double-digit negative currency impact, partially offset by tight expense control.
                 
 
FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
Net operating revenues for the second quarter decreased 9 percent, primarily driven by a 9 percent negative currency impact, a 2 percent negative impact from structural changes and a 1 percent negative impact from pricing and mix, offset by a 3 percent increase in concentrate sales. Structural changes relate to the divestiture of certain bottling operations in 2008. Excluding the impact of these divestitures, our comparable currency neutral net operating revenues increased 6 percent year-to-date, in line with our long-term growth target.
 
Cost of goods sold decreased 8 percent for the quarter. This decrease is primarily driven by a 3 percent increase in concentrate sales offset by a 5 percent decrease from currencies and a 3 percent decrease from structural changes related to bottling investments.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 8 percent in the quarter primarily driven by an 8 percent negative currency impact. The positive impact from prior year divestitures was offset by the impact of lower incentive costs in the prior year and the timing of certain corporate expenses in the current quarter.
Second quarter operating income decreased 9 percent versus 2008. Items impacting comparability reduced second quarter operating income by $72 million in 2009 and by $110 million in 2008 and were related to restructuring costs, productivity initiatives and asset impairments. After considering items impacting comparability, operating income was down 10 percent for the quarter. Currency negatively impacted comparable operating income by 14 percent in the quarter. For the third quarter of 2009, we expect currencies to have an estimated 12 to 14 percent negative impact on operating income, including the anticipated benefits of our hedging coverage and the exchange rates we are cycling in the prior year. In addition, we currently expect currencies to have a low single-digit negative impact on operating income in the fourth quarter.
 
Cash from operations was $3.7 billion year-to-date compared with $3.2 billion in the prior year period, an increase of 14 percent. This increase was driven by an improvement in working capital versus the prior year.
 
Effective Tax Rate
 
The reported effective tax rate for the quarter was 24.9 percent. The underlying effective tax rate on operations for the quarter was 23.5 percent. The variance between the reported rate and the underlying rate was due to the tax impact of various separately disclosed items impacting comparability.
 
We estimate that our underlying effective tax rate on operations for the full year 2009 will be approximately 23.5 percent. Our estimated underlying effective tax rate reflects, among other items, our best estimates of 2009 operating results and foreign currency exchange rates. If actual results are different than these estimates the underlying effective tax rate could change. This rate does not reflect the impact of discrete events, which, if and when they occur, are separately recognized in the appropriate period.
Items Impacting Prior Year Results
 
Second quarter 2008 results included a net charge of $0.40 per share primarily related to charges recorded by our equity method investees, restructuring charges and asset write-downs.
 
First quarter 2008 results included a net charge of $0.03 per share primarily related to restructuring charges and asset write-downs.
 
NOTES
 
All references to growth rate percentages and share compare the results of the period to those of the prior year comparable period.
                 
 
All references to unit case volume percentage changes are computed based on average daily sales for all periods presented.
                 
 
2009 year-to-date results are positively impacted by five additional selling days, which will be offset by six fewer selling days in the fourth quarter.
                 
 
Our long-term profit targets are on a comparable currency neutral basis.
                 
 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
We are hosting a conference call with investors and analysts to discuss our 2009 second quarter and year-to-date results today at 9:30 a.m. (EDT). We invite investors to listen to the live audiocast of the conference call at our website,
A replay in downloadable MP3 format will also be available within 24 hours after the audiocast on our website. Further, the "Investors" section of our website includes a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures that may be used periodically by management when discussing our financial results with investors and analysts to our results as reported under GAAP.
in the "Investors" section.
www.thecoca-colacompany.com
 
 
*
For the three months ended July 3, 2009 and June 27, 2008, "Basic Net Income Per Share" was $0.88 for 2009 and $0.61 for 2008 based on "Average Shares Outstanding - Basic" of 2,313 and 2,316 for 2009 and 2008. Basic net income per share and diluted net income per share are calculated based on net income attributable to shareowners of The Coca-Cola Company.
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:Items to consider for comparability include primarily charges, gains, and accounting changes. Charges and accounting changes negatively impacting net income are reflected as increases to reported net income. Gains and accounting changes positively impacting net income are reflected as deductions to reported net income.
 
 
(1)  Primarily related to changes in reserves related to certain tax matters.
 
(2)  Net operating revenues excluding structural changes:
 
(3)  Net operating revenues after considering items impacting comparability for the three months ended July 3, 2009 includes a negative currency impact of approximately 9%. Currency neutral net operating revenue growth after considering items impacting comparability is 0%. Currency neutral net operating revenue growth includes a negative impact from structural changes of approximately 2%. Currency neutral net operating revenue growth after considering items impacting comparability and structural changes is 2%.
 
(4)  Operating income after considering items impacting comparability for the three months ended July 3, 2009 includes a negative currency impact of approximately 14%. Currency neutral operating income growth after considering items impacting comparability is 4%.
 
(5)  Per share amounts do not add due to rounding.
 
(6)  Effective tax rate after considering impact of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests:
 
 
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used in managing the business may provide users of this financial information additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior operating periods. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide additional meaningful reflection of underlying trends of the business because they provide a comparison of historical information that excludes certain items that impact the overall comparability. Management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures in making financial, operating and planning decisions and in evaluating the Company's performance. See the tables above for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures for the three months ended July 3, 2009 and June 27, 2008. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Note:Items to consider for comparability include primarily charges, gains, and accounting changes.  Charges and accounting changes negatively impacting net income are reflected as increases to reported net income.  Gains and accounting changes positively impacting net income are reflected as deductions to reported net income.
 
 
(1)  Primarily related to changes in reserves related to certain tax matters.
 
(2)  Net operating revenues excluding structural changes:
 
(3)  Net operating revenues after considering items impacting comparability for the six months ended July 3, 2009 includes a negative currency impact of approximately 9%.  Currency neutral net operating revenue growth after considering items impacting comparability is 3%.  Currency neutral net operating revenue growth includes a negative impact from structural changes of approximately 2%.  Currency neutral net operating revenue growth after considering items impacting comparability and structural changes is 6%.  Items do not add due to rounding.
 
(4)  Operating income after considering items impacting comparability for the six months ended July 3, 2009 includes a negative currency impact of approximately 15%.  Currency neutral operating income growth after considering items impacting comparability is 9%.
 
(5)  Per share amounts do not add due to rounding.
 
(6)  Effective tax rate after considering impact of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests:
 
 
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used in managing the business may provide users of this financial information additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior operating periods. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide additional meaningful reflection of underlying trends of the business because they provide a comparison of historical information that excludes certain items that impact the overall comparability.  Management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures in making financial, operating and planning decisions and in evaluating the Company's performance.  See the tables above for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures for the six months ended July 3, 2009 and June 27, 2008. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
(1) Currency neutral operating income growth after considering items impacting comparability for each operating segment is calculated as follows:
 
 
 
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used in managing the business may provide users of this financial information additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior operating periods. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide additional meaningful reflection of underlying trends of the business because they provide a comparison of historical information that excludes certain items that impact the overall comparability. Management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures in making financial, operating and planning decisions and in evaluating the Company's performance.  See the tables above for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures for the three months ended July 3, 2009 and June 27, 2008. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
(1) Currency neutral operating income growth after considering items impacting comparability for each operating segment is calculated as follows:
 
 
 
 
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used in managing the business may provide users of this financial information additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior operating periods. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can provide additional meaningful reflection of underlying trends of the business because they provide a comparison of historical information that excludes certain items that impact the overall comparability. Management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures in making financial, operating and planning decisions and in evaluating the Company's performance.  See the tables above for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures for the six months ended July 3, 2009 and June 27, 2008. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
The Coca-Cola Company
 
The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with nearly 500 sparkling and still brands. Along with Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company's portfolio includes 12 other billion dollar brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, Powerade, Minute Maid and Georgia Coffee. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, juices and juice drinks and ready-to-drink teas and coffees. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate of nearly 1.6 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that protect the environment, conserve resources and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. For more information about our Company, please visit our website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally, the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from The Coca-Cola Company's historical experience and our present expectations or projections. These risks include, but are not limited to, obesity and other health concerns; scarcity and quality of water; changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment, including changes in consumer preferences based on health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns; shifting consumer tastes and needs, changes in lifestyles and competitive product and pricing pressures; impact of the global credit crisis on our liquidity and financial performance; our ability to expand our operations in developing and emerging markets; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; increases in interest rates; our ability to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners; the financial condition of our bottling partners; our ability and the ability of our bottling partners to maintain good labor relations, including the ability to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms and avoid strikes, work stoppages or labor unrest; increase in the cost, disruption of supply or shortage of energy; increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of ingredients or packaging materials; changes in laws and regulations relating to beverage containers and packaging, including container deposit, recycling, eco-tax and/or product stewardship laws or regulations; adoption of significant additional labeling or warning requirements; unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States or other major markets; unfavorable economic and political conditions in international markets, including civil unrest and product boycotts; changes in commercial or market practices and business model within the European Union; litigation uncertainties; adverse weather conditions; our ability to maintain brand image and corporate reputation as well as other product issues such as product recalls; changes in legal and regulatory environments; changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements; our ability to achieve overall long-term goals; our ability to protect our information systems; additional impairment charges; our ability to successfully manage Company-owned bottling operations; the impact of climate change on our business; global or regional catastrophic events; and other risks discussed in our Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which filings are available from the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The Coca-Cola Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 


