FILE:KO/KO-8K-20090218172358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 18, 2009 (the Effective Date), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the Compensation Committee) of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) amended and restated four of the Companys employee equity compensation plans and adopted amendments to the related forms of stock option award agreements.
Under these amendments to The Coca-Cola Company 1999 Stock Option Plan (the 1999 Stock Option Plan), The Coca-Cola Company 2002 Stock Option Plan (the 2002 Stock Option Plan) and The Coca-Cola Company 2008 Stock Option Plan (the 2008 Stock Option Plan), the date on which the vesting of options accelerates upon separation from the Company was changed for grants on or after the Effective Date.  Previously, the vesting of options held at least 12 months accelerated at age 55 and 10 years of service or age 60 and one (1) year of service.  Under the plans as amended, the vesting of options held at least 12 months accelerates at age 60 with 10 years of service. In addition, The Coca-Cola Company 1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan (the "1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan") has been amended to remove the references to retirement as defined in the Companys Employee Retirement Plan and the requirement that retirement occur at least five years after the date of the award in order for the shares to be released.  Under the 1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan as amended, for awards on or after the Effective Date, except as otherwise specified in the award, shares may be retained upon separation from the Company on or after age 60 with 10 years of service.
 Further, the Compensation Committee amended the provision in the 1999 Stock Option Plan regarding the time period available to exercise a stock option in the event of death of the optionee in order to make that plan consistent with the 2002 Stock Option Plan and the 2008 Stock Option Plan.  As a result, the time period that an option may be exercised in the event of death under the 1999 Stock Option Plan has been changed from the earlier of 12 months from the date of death and the expiration date of the option to the earlier of five (5) years from the date of death and the expiration date of the option.
   
The Compensation Committee also amended the forms of stock option award agreements related to all of these stock option plans, pursuant to which the executive officers of the Company named in its 2009 Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are entitled to receive awards.  These amendments include a mandatory and an optional provision.  The mandatory provision provides that an optionee who is subject to the Companys stock ownership guidelines may not sell net shares (i.e. shares remaining after payment of the exercise price and/or taxes) of Company common stock obtained upon exercise of an option award until the optionee has satisfied the applicable stock ownership guidelines, and then may sell only the number of such shares in excess of those guidelines.  The optional provision, which may be used in a stock option award agreement at the Compensation Committees discretion, provides that the optionee may not sell any of the net shares of Company common stock obtained upon exercise of an option award until after the optionee ceases to be employed by the Company or a Related Company (as defined in the plans).
2
The amendments to these equity compensation plans were approved by the Compensation Committee pursuant to the authority granted to the Compensation Committee under the terms of each of the respective plans.  The nature of these amendments did not require shareowner approval under the terms of the plans, applicable law or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
The foregoing descriptions of the amendments to these amended and restated equity compensation plans and related forms of stock option award agreements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the amended and restated plans and amended forms of stock option award agreements, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.7 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
4 
 
 
                              
Exhibit No.
Description
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
(As Amended and Restated through February 18, 2009)
 
 
Section 1. Purpose
 
        The purpose of the 1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Plan") is to advance the interest of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") and its Related Companies (as defined in Section 4 hereof), by encouraging and enabling the acquisition of a financial interest in the Company by officers and other key employees through grants of restricted shares of Company Common Stock and/or performance share units (the "Awards", or singly, an "Award"). The Plan is intended to aid the Company and its Related Companies in retaining officers and key employees, to stimulate the efforts of such employees and to strengthen their desire to remain in the employ of the Company and its Related Companies. In addition, the Plan may also aid in attracting officers and key employees who will become eligible to participate in the Plan after a reasonable period of employment by the Company or its Related Companies.
 
Section 2. Administration
 
        The Plan shall be administered by a committee (the "Committee") appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") or in accordance with Section 7, Article III of the By-Laws of the Company (as amended through October 20, 2005) from among its members and shall be comprised of not less than three (3) members of the Board. The Committee shall determine the officers and key employees of the Company and its Related Companies (including officers, whether or not they are directors) to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards will be granted, the number of shares to be awarded, the time or times within which the Awards may be subject to forfeiture, and all other conditions of the Award. The provisions of the Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
 
        The Committee is authorized, subject to the provisions of the Plan, to establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan and to take such other action in connection with or in relation to the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable. Each action made or taken pursuant to the Plan, including interpretation of the Plan and the Awards granted hereunder by the Committee, shall be final and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons, including, without limitation, the Company and its Related Companies, the Committee, the Board, the Officers and the affected employees of the Company and/or its Related Companies and their respective successors in interest.
 
Section 3. Stock
 
        The stock to be issued under the Plan pursuant to Awards shall be shares of Common Stock, $.25 par value, of the Company (the "Stock"). The Stock shall be made available from treasury or authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock of the Company. The total number of shares of Stock that may be issued pursuant to Awards under the Plan, including those already issued, may not exceed 40,000,000 shares (subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 8). Shares of Stock previously granted pursuant to Awards, but which are forfeited pursuant to Section 5, below, shall be available for future Awards.
 
Section 4. Eligibility
 
        Awards may be granted to officers and key employees of the Company and its Related Companies who have been employed by the Company or a Related Company (but only if the Related Company is one in which the Company owns on the grant date, directly or indirectly, either (i) 50% or more of the voting stock or capital where such entity is not publicly held, or (ii) an interest which causes the Related Company's financial results to be consolidated with the Company's financial results for financial reporting
 
 
1
 
purposes) for a reasonable period of time determined by the Committee. The term "Related Company" shall mean any corporation or other business organization in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 20 percent or more of the voting stock or capital at the applicable time.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, Awards, including performance share unit awards, may only be granted to employees if they are employed at the time the Award is initially granted; however, Awards in the form of performance share units or other share units may be settled in shares of Stock after the employees termination of employment, if such employee qualifies for such a settlement under the terms of the Award.
 
No employee shall acquire pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan more than twenty (20) percent of the aggregate number of shares of Stock issuable pursuant to Awards under the Plan.
 
Section 5. Awards
 
        Effective for grants on or after February 18, 2009, and except as otherwise specifically provided in the grant of an Award, Awards shall be granted solely for services rendered to the Company or any Related Company and shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
(a)
 
If at any time the recipient terminates employment after attaining age 60 and completing ten Years of Service, dies or becomes disabled, or in the event of a "Change in Control" of the Company, such recipient shall be entitled to retain the number of shares subject to the Award if such shares have been issued, unless otherwise specified at the time of grant.
 
(b)
 
The Stock subject to an Award shall be forfeited to the Company if the employment of the employee by the Company or Related Company terminates for any other reason.
 
Disabled means a condition for which a recipient becomes eligible for and receives a disability benefit under the long term disability insurance policy issued to the Company providing Basic Long Term Disability Insurance benefits pursuant to The Coca-Cola Company Health and Welfare Benefits Plan, or under any other long term disability plan which hereafter may be maintained by the Company or a Related Company, provided that the recipient is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months.
 
Years of Service means Years of Vesting Service as that term is defined in the Employee Retirement Plan of The Coca-Cola Company.
 
"Change in Control"  means a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as in effect on January 1, 2002, provided that such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as (i) any "person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act), is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act as in effect on January 1, 2002) directly or indirectly, of securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power for election of directors of the then outstanding securities of the Company or any successor of the Company; (ii) during any period of two consecutive years or less, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of the Company cease, for any reason, to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors, unless the election or nomination for election of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period; (iii) the shareholders of the Company approve any merger or consolidation as a result of which the Common Stock shall be changed, converted or exchanged (other than a merger with a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) or any liquidation of the Company or any sale or other disposition of 50% or more of the assets or earning power of the Company, and such merger, consolidation, liquidation or sale is completed; or (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve any merger or consolidation to which the Company is a party as a result of which the persons who were
 
 
2
 
shareholders of the Company immediately prior to the effective date of the merger or consolidation shall have beneficial ownership of less than 50% of the combined voting power for election of directors of the surviving corporation following the effective date of such merger or consolidation, and such merger or consolidation is completed; provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if, prior to such time as a Change in Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred, the Board of Directors determines otherwise.  Additionally, no Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred under clause (i) if, subsequent to such time as a Change in Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred, a majority of the Directors in office prior to the acquisition of the securities by such person determines otherwise.
 
(c)   Awards may contain such other provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine appropriate from time to time.
 
(d)   Performance-Based Awards.
 
        1.     The Committee, which shall be comprised of two or more outside directors meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") may select from time to time, in its discretion, executive officers, senior vice-presidents and other key executives of the Company and its Related Companies, to receive awards of restricted stock or performance share units under the Plan, in such amounts as the Committee may, in its discretion, determine (subject to any limitations provided in the Plan), the release of which will be conditioned upon the attainment of certain performance targets ("Performance-Based Awards"). With respect to individuals residing in countries other than in the United States, the Committee may authorize alternatives that deliver substantially the same value, including, but not limited to, promises of future restricted stock awards provided that the grant and subsequent release is contingent upon attainment of certain performance targets under this section.
 
        2.     The Committee shall determine the performance targets and the Measurement Period (as defined below) that will be applied with respect to such grant. Grants of Performance-Based Awards may be made, and the performance targets applicable to such Performance-Based Awards may be defined and determined, by the Committee no later than ninety days after the commencement of the Measurement Period. The performance criteria applicable to Performance-Based Awards will be one or more of the following criteria:
 
increase in shareowner value;
earnings per share;
net income;
return on assets;
return on shareowners' equity;
increase in cash flow;
operating profit or operating margins;
revenue growth of the Company;
operating expenses;
quality as determined by the Company's Quality Index;
economic profit;
return on capital;
return on invested capital;
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization;
goals relating to acquisitions or divestitures;
unit case volume;
operating income;
brand contribution;
value share of Non Alcoholic Ready-To-Drink segment;
volume share of Non Alcoholic Ready-To-Drink segment;
net revenue;
 
 
 
3
gross profit; and
profit before tax.
 
At the time the Committee sets the performance criteria, the Committee shall define the criteria and any adjustments to be applied. The performance criteria may be applied to the Company as a whole or to a particular business unit, or a combination thereof, as determined at the time of grant applicable to the particular recipient.
 
The Measurement Period will be a period of at least one year, determined by the Committee in its discretion, commencing on January 1 of the first year of the Measurement Period and ending on December 31 of the last year of the Measurement Period. The Measurement Period may be subject to adjustment as the Committee may provide in the terms of each award. For newly hired or eligible individuals, the Measurement Period may consist of a partial year or years. The Committee may specify an additional required holding period after the Measurement Period.
 
        3.     Except as otherwise provided in the terms of the award, shares awarded in the form of Performance-Based Awards shall be eligible for release (the "Release Date") on March 1 following the completion of the Measurement Period.
 
        4.     Shares awarded in the form of Performance-Based Awards will be released only if the Controller of the Company (or, for non-financial measures, the appropriate approver) and the Committee certify that the performance targets have been achieved during the Measurement Period.
 
        5.     In addition to the other limitations in the Plan, a recipient may not receive Performance-Based Awards in a single year valued in excess of $20 million at the time of the Award.
 
        6.     Performance-Based Awards granted pursuant to this Section 5(d) are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and shall be administered and construed accordingly.
 
        (e)    No Award shall be released unless the employee properly, timely and unconditionally executes (by any means approved by the plan administrator or the Director, Executive Compensation) an agreement provided in connection with the Award.
 
Section 6. Nontransferability of Awards
 
        Shares of Stock subject to Awards shall not be transferable and shall not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of at any time prior to the first to occur of Retirement on a date which is at least five (5) years from the date of grant of an Award and on or after the date on which the employee has attained the age of 62, death or disability of the recipient of an Award or a Change in Control.
 
Section 7. Rights as a Stockholder
 
        An employee who receives an Award shall have rights as a stockholder with respect to Stock covered by such Award to receive dividends in cash or other property or other distributions or rights in respect to such Stock and to vote such Stock as the record owner thereof.
 
Section 8. Adjustment in the Number of Shares Awarded
 
        In the event there is any change in the Stock through the declaration of stock dividends, through stock splits or through recapitalization or merger or consolidation or combination of shares or otherwise, the
 
 
4
 
Committee or the Board shall make an appropriate adjustment in the number of shares of Stock thereafter available for Awards.
 
Section 9. Taxes
 
        (a)   If any employee properly elects, within thirty (30) days of the date on which an Award is granted, to include in gross income for federal income tax purposes an amount equal to the fair market value (on the date of grant of the Award) of the Stock subject to the Award, such employee shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Committee to pay to the Company in the year of such Award, any federal, state or local taxes required to be withheld with respect to such shares. If such employee shall fail to make such tax payments as are required, the Company and its Related Companies shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct from any payment of any kind otherwise due to the employee any federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the Stock subject to such Award.
 
        (b)   Each employee who does not make the election described in paragraph (a) of this Section shall, no later than the date as of which the restrictions referred to in Section 5 and such other restrictions as may have been imposed as a condition of the Award, shall lapse, pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Committee regarding payment of any federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the Stock subject to such Award, and the Company and its Related Companies shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct from any payment of any kind otherwise due to the employee any federal, state, or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the Stock subject to such Award.
 
        (c)   The Committee may specify when it grants an Award that the Award is subject to mandatory share withholding for satisfaction of tax withholding obligations by employees. For all other Awards, whether granted before or after this paragraph 9(c) was added to this Plan, tax withholding obligations of an employee may be satisfied by share withholding, if permitted by applicable law, at the written election of the employee prior to the date the restrictions on the Award lapse. The shares withheld will be valued at the average of the high and low market prices at which a share of Stock was sold on the date the restrictions lapse (or, if such date is not a trading day, then the next trading day thereafter), as reported on the New York Stock ExchangeComposite Transactions listing.
 
Section 10. Restrictive Legend and Stock Power
 
        Each certificate evidencing Stock subject to Awards shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to such award. Any attempt to dispose of Stock in contravention of such terms, conditions, and restrictions shall be ineffective. The Committee may adopt rules which provide that the certificates evidencing such shares may be held in custody by a bank or other institution, or that the Company may itself hold such shares in custody until the restrictions thereon shall have lapsed and may require, as a condition of any Award, that the recipient shall have delivered a stock power endorsed in blank relating to the Stock covered by such Award.
 
Section 11. Amendments, Modifications and Termination of Plan
 
        The Board or the Committee may terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, may suspend the Plan, in whole or in part from time to time, and may amend the Plan from time to time, including the adoption of amendments deemed necessary or desirable to qualify the Awards under the laws of various states (including tax laws) and under rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to employees who are subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, or to correct any defect or supply an omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award granted thereunder, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company; provided, however, that no action shall be taken without the approval of the stockholders of the Company which may increase the number of shares of Stock available for Awards or withdraw administration from the Committee, or permit any person while a member of the Committee to be eligible to receive an Award. Without limiting
 
 
5
 
the foregoing, the Board of Directors or the Committee may make amendments applicable or inapplicable only to participants who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act. No amendment or termination or modification of the Plan shall in any manner affect Awards therefore granted without the consent of the employee unless the Committee has made a determination that an amendment or modification is in the best interest of all persons to whom Awards have theretofore been granted. The Board or the Committee may modify or remove restrictions contained in Sections 5 and 6 on an Award or the Awards as a whole which have been previously granted upon a determination that such action is in the best interest of the Company. The Plan shall terminate when (a) all Awards authorized under the Plan have been granted and (b) all shares of Stock subject to Awards under the Plan have been issued and are no longer subject to forfeiture under the terms hereof unless earlier terminated by the Board or the Committee.
 
Section 12. Governing Law
 
Except to extent preempted by Federal Law, this Plan shall be construed, governed and enforced under the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to the conflicts of law principles thereof) and any and all disputes arising under this Plan are to be resolved exclusively by courts sitting in Delaware.
 
 
  6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee has determined that it is necessary and advisable to establish a subplan for the purpose of permitting Awards to qualify for French favorable tax and social security treatment.  Therefore, Awards granted under the Plan to employees and officers (the French Employees) of Related Companies in France may be granted under the terms of this Addendum to the Plan and applying to the Performance Share Agreement, provided that such Awards shall not have terms that would not otherwise be allowed under the general terms of the Plan.  The authorization to grant Awards under this Addendum shall be for a limited period ending February 28, 2018.
Disability means disability as determined in categories 2 and 3 under Article 341-4 of the French Social Security Code.
Related Companies means the companies within the meaning of Article L. 225-197-2 of the French Commercial Code or any provision substituted for same.
Closed Period means (i) ten quotation days preceding and following the disclosure to the public of the consolidated financial statements or annual statement of the Coca-Cola Company; or (ii) the period as from the date the corporate management entities (involved in the governance of the company, such as the Board, Committee, supervisory, in the case it would be disclosed to the public, significantly impact the quotation of the shares of the Company, until ten quotation days after the day such information is disclosed to the public.
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
8
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.2
 
1999 STOCK OPTION PLAN
(Amended and Restated Through February 18, 2009)
 
 
Section 1. Purpose
 
        The purpose of The Coca-Cola Company 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") is to advance the interest of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") and its Related Companies (as defined in Section 2) by encouraging and enabling the acquisition of a financial interest in the Company by officers and other key employees of the Company or its Related Companies. In addition, the Plan is intended to aid the Company and its Related Companies in attracting and retaining key employees, to stimulate the efforts of such employees and to strengthen their desire to remain in the employ of the Company and its Related Companies. Also, the Plan is intended to help the Company and its Related Companies, in certain instances, to attract and compensate consultants to perform key services.
 
Section 2. Definitions
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
"Business Day" means a day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for securities trading.
 
"Change in Control" shall mean a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("1934 Act") as in effect on January 1, 1999, provided that such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as (i) any "person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act as in effect on January 1, 1999) directly or indirectly, of securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power for election of directors of the then outstanding securities of the Company or any successor of the Company; (ii) during any period of two (2) consecutive years or less, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors cease, for any reason, to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors, unless the election or nomination for election of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period; (iii) the shareowners of the Company approve any merger or consolidation as a result of which the KO Common Stock (as defined below) shall be changed, converted or exchanged (other than a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) or any liquidation of the Company or any sale or other disposition of 50% or more of the assets or earning power of the Company, and such merger, consolidation, liquidation or sale is completed; or (iv) the shareowners of the Company approve any merger or consolidation to which the Company is a party as a result of which the persons who were shareowners of the Company immediately prior to the effective date of the merger or consolidation shall have beneficial ownership of less than 50% of the combined voting power for election of directors of the surviving corporation following the effective date of such merger or consolidation, and such merger, consolidation, liquidation or sale is completed; provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if, prior to such times as
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
a Change in Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred, the Board of Directors determines otherwise. Additionally, no Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred under clause (i) if, subsequent to such time as a Change of Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred, a majority of the Directors in office prior to the acquisition of the securities by such person determines otherwise.
 
"Committee" means a committee appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Company's By-Laws from among its members.
 
"Disabled" or "Disability" means a condition for which an optionee becomes eligible for a disability benefit under the long term disability insurance policy issued to the Company providing Basic Long Term Disability Insurance benefits pursuant to The Coca-Cola Company Health and Welfare Benefits Plan, or under any other long term disability plan which hereafter may be maintained by the Company, whether or not the optionee is covered by such plans.
 
"ISO" means an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
"KO Common Stock" means The Coca-Cola Company Common Stock, par value $.25 per share.
 
"Majority-Owned Related Company" means a Related Company in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the voting stock or capital on the date an Option is granted.
 
"NSO" means a stock option that does not constitute an ISO.
 
"Options" means ISOs and NSOs granted under this Plan.
 
"Related Company" or "Related Companies" means corporation(s) or other business organization(s) in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the voting stock or capital at the relevant time.
 
Years of Service means Years of Vesting Service as that term is defined in the Employee Retirement Plan of The Coca-Cola Company.
 
Section 3. Options
 
        The Company may grant ISOs and NSOs to those persons meeting the eligibility requirements in Section 6(a) and NSOs to those persons meeting the eligibility requirements in Sections 6(b) and 6(c).
 
Section 4. Administration
 
        The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. No person, other than members of the Committee, shall have any discretion concerning decisions regarding the Plan. The Committee shall determine the key employees of the Company and its Related Companies (including officers, whether
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
or not they are directors) and consultants to whom, and the time or times at which, Options will be granted; the number of shares to be subject to each Option; the duration of each Option; the time or times within which the Option may be exercised; the cancellation of the Option (with the consent of the holder thereof); and the other conditions of the grant of the Option, at grant or while outstanding, pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The provisions and conditions of the Options need not be the same with respect to each optionee or with respect to each Option.
 
        The Committee may, subject to the provisions of the Plan, establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan, and may make determinations and may take such other action in connection with or in relation to the Plan as it deems
necessary or advisable. Each determination or other action made or taken pursuant to the Plan, including interpretation of the Plan and the specific conditions and provisions of the Options granted hereunder by the Committee, shall be final and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons including, but without limitation, the Company, its Related Companies, the Committee, the Board, officers and the affected employees and consultants to the Company and/or its Related Companies, optionees and the respective successors in interest of any of the foregoing.
 
Section 5. Stock
 
(a)
 
The KO Common Stock to be issued, transferred and/or sold under the Plan shall be made available from authorized and unissued KO Common Stock or from the Company's treasury shares. The total number of shares of KO Common Stock that may be issued or transferred under the Plan pursuant to Options granted thereunder may not exceed 120,000,000 shares (subject to adjustment as described below). Such number of shares shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 5 and Section 11.
(b)
 
Shares Counted Against Limitation.  If an  Option is exercised by delivery, sale or attestation of  Shares of KO Common Stock under Section 7, or if the tax withholding obligation is satisfied by withholding or selling Shares of KO Common Stock under Section 7, the number of Shares of KO Common Stock deemed to have been issued under the Plan (for purposes of the limitation set forth in this section) shall be the number of Shares of KO Common Stock that were subject to the Option or portion thereof so exercised and not the net number of Shares of KO Common Stock actually issued upon such exercise.
()
c
 
Lapsed Awards.  If an Option: (i) expires; (ii) is terminated, surrendered, or canceled without having been exercised in full; or (iii) is otherwise forfeited in whole or in part, then the unissued Shares of KO Common Stock that were subject to such Option and/or such surrendered, canceled, or forfeited Shares of KO Common Stock shall become available for future grant under the Plan.
 
Section 6. Eligibility
 
        Options may be granted to:
 
(a)     employees of the Company and its Majority-Owned Related Companies,
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
(b)     particular employee(s) of a Related Company, who within the past eighteen (18) months were employee(s) of the Company or a Majority-Owned Related Company, and in rare instances to be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, employees of a Related Company who have not been employees of the Company or a Majority-Owned Related Company within the past eighteen (18) months, and
(c)     consultants providing key services to the Company or its Related Companies (provided that consultants are natural persons and are not former employees of the Company or any Related Company, and that consultants shall be eligible to receive only NSOs and shall not be eligible to receive ISOs).
 
        Effective January 1, 2008, Options may not be granted to any individual described in Section 6(b) or 6(c).   No person shall be granted the right to acquire, pursuant to Options granted under the Plan, more than 5% of the aggregate number of shares of KO Common Stock originally authorized under the Plan, as adjusted pursuant to Section 11.
 
Section 7. Awards of Options
 
        Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Plan, Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
(a)    Option Price. The Option price shall be no less than 100% of the fair market value of the KO Common Stock on the date of grant. The fair market value of a share of KO Common Stock shall be the average of the high and low market prices at which a share of KO Common Stock shall have been sold on the date of grant, or on the next preceding trading day if such date was not a trading date, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions listing.
 
(b)    Payment of Option Price. The Option price shall be paid in full at the time of exercise, except as provided in the next sentence. If an exercise is executed by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith using the cashless method, the exercise price shall be paid in full no later than the close of business on the third Business Day following the exercise.
 
Payment may be in cash or, upon conditions established by the Committee, by delivery of shares of KO Common Stock owned for at least six (6) months by the optionee prior to the date of exercise.
 
The optionee, if a U.S. taxpayer, may elect to satisfy Federal, state and local income tax liabilities due by reason of the exercise by the withholding of shares of KO Common Stock.
 
If shares are delivered to pay the Option price or if shares are withheld for U.S. taxpayers to satisfy such tax liabilities, the value of the shares delivered or withheld shall be computed on the basis of the reported market price at which a share of KO Common Stock most recently traded prior to the time the exercise order was processed. Such price will be determined by reference to the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions listing.
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
(c)   Exercise May Be Delayed until Withholding is Satisfied. The Company may refuse to recognize the exercise an Option if the optionee has not made arrangements satisfactory to the Company to satisfy the tax withholding which the Company determines is necessary to comply with applicable requirements.
 
(d)   Duration of Options. The duration of Options shall be determined by the Committee, but in no event shall the duration of an Option exceed ten years from the date of its grant.
 
(e)   Vesting. Options shall contain such vesting terms as are determined by the Committee, at its sole discretion, including, without limitation, vesting upon the achievement of certain specified performance targets. In the event that no vesting determination is made by the Committee, Options shall vest as follows: (1) 25% on the first anniversary of the date of the grant; (2) 25% on the second anniversary of the date of the grant; (3) 25% on the third anniversary of the date of the grant; and (4) 25% on the fourth anniversary of the date of the grant.
 
(f)    Other Terms and Conditions. Options may contain such other provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine appropriate from time to time, including vesting provisions; provided, however, that, except in the event of a Change in Control or the Disability or death of the optionee, no grant shall provide that an Option shall be exercisable in whole or in part for a period of twelve (12) months from the date on which the Option is granted. The grant of an Option to any employee shall not affect in any way the right of the Company and any Related Company to terminate the employment of such employee. The grant of an Option to any consultant shall not affect in any way the right of the Company and any Related Company to terminate the services of such consultant.
 
(g)   ISOs. The Committee, with respect to each grant of an Option to an optionee, shall determine whether such Option shall be an ISO, and, upon determining that an Option shall be an ISO, shall designate it as such in the written instrument evidencing such Option. If the written instrument evidencing an Option does not contain a designation that it is an ISO, it shall not be an ISO.
 
The aggregate fair market value (determined in each instance on the date on which an ISO is granted) of the KO Common Stock with respect to which ISOs are first exercisable by any optionee in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 for such optionee (or such other time limit as may be required by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended). If any subsidiary or Majority-Owned Related Company of the Company shall adopt a stock option plan under which Options constituting ISOs may be granted, the fair market value of the stock on which any such incentive stock options are granted and the times at which such incentive stock options will first become exercisable shall be taken into account in determining the maximum amount of ISOs which may be granted to the optionee under this Plan in any calendar year.
 
Section 8. Nontransferability of Options
 
        No Option granted pursuant to the Plan shall be transferable otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During the lifetime of an optionee, the Option shall be exercisable only by the optionee personally or by the optionee's legal representative.
 
5
 
Section 9. Effect of Termination of Employment, Other Changes of Employment or Employer Status, Death, or a Change in Control
 
(a)   For Employees. For optionees who are employees of the Company or its Related Companies on the date of grant, the following provisions shall apply:
 
 
 
6
 
 In the case of other leaves of absence not specified above, optionees will be deemed to have terminated employment (so that Options unvested will expire and the Option exercise period will end on the earlier of 6 months from the date the leave began or the Option expiration date provided in the grant), unless the Committee identifies a valid business interest in doing otherwise in which case it may specify what provisions it deems appropriate in its sole discretion; provided that the Committee shall have no obligation to consider any such matters.
 
 
 (b)   For Consultants. For optionees who are consultants, the provisions relating to changes of work assignment, death, disability, Change in Control, or any other provision of an Option shall be determined by the Committee at the date of the grant.
 
 
(c)   Committee Retains Discretion To Establish Different Terms Than Those Provided in Sections 9(a) or 9(b). Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, establish different terms and conditions pertaining to the effect of an optionee's termination on the expiration or exercisability of Options at the time of grant or (with the consent of the affected optionee) on the expiration or exercisability of outstanding Options. However, no Option can have a term of more than fifteen years.
 
Section 10. No Rights as a Shareowner
 
        An optionee or a transferee of an optionee pursuant to Section 8 shall have no right as a shareowner with respect to any KO Common Stock covered by an Option or receivable upon the exercise of an Option until the optionee or transferee shall have become the holder of record of such KO Common Stock, and no adjustments shall be made for dividends in cash or other property or other distributions or rights in respect to such KO Common Stock for which the record date is prior to the
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
date on which the optionee or transferee shall have in fact become the holder of record of the share of KO Common Stock acquired pursuant to the Option.
 
Section 11. Adjustment in the Number of Shares and in Option Price
 
        In the event there is any change in the shares of KO Common Stock through the declaration of stock dividends, or stock splits or through recapitalization or merger or consolidation or combination of shares or spin-offs or otherwise, the Committee or the Board shall make an appropriate adjustment in the number of shares of KO Common Stock available for Options as well as the number of shares of KO Common Stock subject to any outstanding Option and the Option price or exercise price thereof. Any such adjustment may provide for the elimination of any fractional shares which might otherwise become subject to any Option without payment therefor.
 
Section 12. Amendments, Modifications and Termination of the Plan
 
        The Board or the Committee may terminate the Plan at any time. From time to time, the Board or the Committee may suspend the Plan, in whole or in part. From time to time, the Board or the Committee may amend the Plan, in whole or in part, including the adoption of amendments deemed necessary or desirable to qualify the Options under the laws of various countries (including tax laws) and under rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to optionees who are subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the 1934 Act, or to correct any defect or supply an omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Option granted thereunder, or for any other purpose or to any effect permitted by applicable laws and regulations, without the approval of the shareowners of the Company. However, in no event may additional shares of KO Common Stock be allocated to the Plan or any outstanding option be repriced or replaced without share-owner approval. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors or the Committee may make amendments applicable or inapplicable only to participants who are subject to Section 16 of the 1934 Act.
 
        No amendment or termination or modification of the Plan shall in any manner affect any Option theretofore granted without the consent of the optionee, except that the Committee may amend or modify the Plan in a manner that does affect Options theretofore granted upon a finding by the Committee that such amendment or modification is in the best interest of holders of outstanding Options affected thereby. Grants of ISOs may be made under this Plan until February 18, 2009 or such earlier date as this Plan is terminated, and grants of NSOs may be made until all of the 120,000,000 shares of KO Common Stock authorized for issuance hereunder (adjusted as provided in Sections 5 and 11) have been issued or until this Plan is terminated, whichever first occurs. The Plan shall terminate when there are no longer Options outstanding under the Plan, unless earlier terminated by the Board or by the Committee.
 
Section 13. Governing Law
 
Except to extent preempted by Federal Law, this Plan shall be construed, governed and enforced under the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to the conflicts of law principles thereof) and any and all disputes arising under this Plan are to be resolved exclusively by courts sitting in Delaware.
 
 8
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.3
 
Section 1. Purpose
 
        The purpose of The Coca-Cola Company 2002 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") is to advance the interest of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") and its Related Companies (as defined in Section 2) by encouraging and enabling the acquisition of a financial interest in the Company by officers and other key employees of the Company or its Related Companies. In addition, the Plan is intended to aid the Company and its Related Companies in attracting and retaining key employees, to stimulate the efforts of such employees and to strengthen their desire to remain in the employ of the Company and its Related Companies. Also, the Plan is intended to help the Company and its Related Companies, in certain instances, to attract and compensate consultants to perform key services.
 
Section 2. Definitions
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
"Business Day" means a day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for securities trading.
 
"Change in Control" shall mean a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("1934 Act"), as in effect on January 1, 2002, provided that such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as (i) any "person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act as in effect on January 1, 2002) directly or indirectly, of securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power for election of directors of the then outstanding securities of the Company or any successor of the Company; (ii) during any period of two (2) consecutive years or less, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of the Company cease, for any reason, to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors, unless the election or nomination for election of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period; (iii) the shareowners of the Company approve any merger or consolidation as a result of which the KO Common Stock (as defined below) shall be changed, converted or exchanged (other than a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) or any liquidation of the Company or any sale or other disposition of 50% or more of the assets or earning power of the Company, and such merger, consolidation, liquidation or sale is completed; or (iv) the shareowners of the Company approve any merger or consolidation to which the Company is a party as a result of which the persons who were shareowners of the Company immediately prior to the effective date of the merger or consolidation shall have beneficial ownership of less than 50% of the combined voting power for election of
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
directors of the surviving corporation following the effective date of such merger or consolidation, and such merger, consolidation, liquidation or sale is completed; provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if, prior to such times as a Change in Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred, the Board of Directors determines otherwise. Additionally, no Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred under clause (i) if, subsequent to such time as a Change of Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred, a majority of the Directors in office prior to the acquisition of the securities by such person determines otherwise.
 
"Committee" means a committee appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Company's By-Laws from among its members.
 
"Disabled" or "Disability" means a condition for which a Participant becomes eligible for a disability benefit under the long term disability insurance policy issued to the Company providing Basic Long Term Disability Insurance benefits pursuant to The Coca-Cola Company Health and Welfare Benefits Plan, or under any other long term disability plan which hereafter may be maintained by the Company, whether or not the optionee is covered by such plans.
 
"ISO" means an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
"KO Common Stock" means the common stock of The Coca-Cola Company, par value $.25 per share.
 
"Majority-Owned Related Company" means a Related Company in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the voting stock or capital on the date an Option or SAR is granted.
 
"NSO" means a stock option that does not constitute an ISO.
 
"Options" means ISOs and NSOs granted under this Plan.
 
"Related Company" or "Related Companies" means corporation(s) or other business organization(s) in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the voting stock or capital at the relevant time.
 
 Years of Service means Years of Vesting Service as that term is defined in the Employee Retirement Plan of The Coca-Cola Company.
 
"SAR" means stock appreciation rights granted under this Plan. An SAR entitles the Participant to receive, in KO Common Stock, value equal to the excess of: a) the fair market value of a specified number of shares of KO Common Stock at the time of exercise; over b) an exercise price established by the Committee.
 
2
 
 
 
 
Section 3. Options and SARs
 
        The Company may grant ISOs and NSOs to those persons meeting the eligibility requirements in Section 6(a) and NSOs to those persons meeting the eligibility requirements in Sections 6(b) and 6(c).
 
        The Company may grant SARs to any persons meeting the eligibility requirements in Sections 6(a), (b) and (c).
 
        An individual who is granted an Option and/or an SAR shall be referred to herein as an "optionee."
 
Section 4. Administration
 
        The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. No person, other than members of the Committee, shall have any discretion concerning decisions regarding the Plan. The Committee shall determine the key employees of the Company and its Related Companies (including officers, whether or not they are directors) and consultants to whom, and the time or times at which, Options and SARs will be granted; the number of shares to be subject to each Option and SAR; the duration of each Option and SAR; the time or times within which the Option or SAR may be exercised; the cancellation of the Option or SAR (with the consent of the holder thereof); and the other conditions of the grant of the Option or SAR, at grant or while outstanding, pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The provisions and conditions of the Options or SARs need not be the same with respect to each optionee or with respect to each Option or SAR.
 
        The Committee may, subject to the provisions of the Plan, establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary, or advisable, for the proper administration of the Plan, and may make determinations and may take such other action in connection with or in relation to the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable. Each determination or other action made or taken pursuant to the Plan, including interpretation of the Plan and the specific conditions and provisions of the Options and SARs granted hereunder by the Committee, shall be final and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons including, but without limitation, the Company, its Related Companies, the Committee, the Board, officers and the affected employees and consultants to the Company and/or its Related Companies, optionees and the respective successors in interest of any of the foregoing.
 
Section 5. Stock
 
 (a)
   
 
The KO Common Stock to be issued, transferred and/or sold under the Plan shall be made available from authorized and unissued KO Common Stock or from the Company's treasury shares. The total number of shares of KO Common Stock that may be issued or transferred under the Plan pursuant to Options or SARs granted thereunder may not exceed 120,000,000 shares (subject to adjustment as described below); provided, however, that in no event shall the number of shares of KO Common Stock that may be issued, transferred or sold under the Plan exceed 5% of the number of shares of KO Common Stock outstanding on
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
a given date. Such number of shares shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 5 and Section 11.
(b)
 
Shares Counted Against Limitation.  If an  Option is exercised by delivery, sale or attestation of  Shares of KO Common Stock under Section 7, or if the tax withholding obligation is satisfied by withholding or selling Shares of KO Common Stock under Section 7, the number of Shares of KO Common Stock deemed to have been issued under the Plan (for purposes of the limitation set forth in this section) shall be the number of Shares of KO Common Stock that were subject to the Option or portion thereof so exercised and not the net number of Shares of KO Common Stock actually issued upon such exercise.
(c)
 
Lapsed Awards.  If an Option: (i) expires; (ii) is terminated, surrendered, or canceled without having been exercised in full; or (iii) is otherwise forfeited in whole or in part, then the unissued Shares of KO Common Stock that were subject to such Option and/or such surrendered, canceled, or forfeited Shares of KO Common Stock shall become available for future grant under the Plan.
 
Section 6. Eligibility
 
        Options and/or SARs may be granted to:
 
(a) employees of the Company and its Majority-Owned Related Companies,
(b)  particular employee(s) of a Related Company, who within the past eighteen (18) months were employee(s) of the Company or a Majority-Owned Related Company, and in rare instances to be determined by the Committee at its sole discretion, employees of a Related Company who have not been employees of the Company or a Majority-Owned Related Company within the past eighteen (18) months, and
(c) consultants providing key services to the Company or its Related Companies (provided that consultants are natural persons and are not former employees of the Company or any Related Company, and that consultants shall be eligible to receive only NSOs and shall not be eligible to receive ISOs).
 
Effective January 1, 2008, Options and SARs may not be granted to any individual described in Section 6(b) or 6(c).   No person shall be granted the right to acquire, pursuant to Options or SARs granted under the Plan, more than 5% of the aggregate number of shares of KO Common Stock originally authorized under
the Plan, as adjusted pursuant to Section 11. No option or SAR shall be exercisable unless the employee properly, timely and unconditionally executes (by any means approved by the plan administrator) a stock option agreement provided in connection with the stock option or SAR award.
 
Section 7. Awards of Options and SARs
 
        Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Plan, Options and SARs granted pursuant to the Plan shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
(a)   Option Price and Exercise Price. The option price (for NSOs and ISOs) and the exercise price (for SARs) shall be no less than 100% of the fair market value of the KO Common Stock on the date of grant. The fair market value of a share of KO Common Stock shall be the average of the high and low market prices at which a share of KO Common Stock shall have been sold on the date of grant, or on the next preceding trading day if such date was not a trading date, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions listing. If necessary to comply with foreign laws, the Committee may, at its sole discretion, grant Options and SARs at an option price or exercise price less than 100% of the fair market value of the KO Common Stock on the date of grant.
 
(b)   Payment of Option Price. The option price shall be paid in full at the time of exercise, except as provided in the next sentence. If an exercise is executed by the plan administrator using the cashless method, the exercise price shall be paid in full no later than the close of business on the third Business Day following the exercise.
 
Payment may be in cash or, upon conditions established by the Committee, by delivery of shares of KO Common Stock owned by the optionee for at least six (6) months prior to the date of exercise.
 
The optionee, if a U.S. taxpayer, may elect to satisfy Federal, state and local income tax liabilities due by reason of the exercise by the withholding of shares of KO Common Stock.
 
If shares are delivered to pay the option price or if shares are withheld for U.S. taxpayers to satisfy such tax liabilities, the value of the shares delivered or withheld shall be computed on the basis of the reported market price at which a share of KO Common Stock most recently traded prior to the time the exercise order was processed. Such price will be determined by reference to the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions listing.
 
(c)   Exercise May Be Delayed until Withholding is Satisfied. The Company may refuse to recognize the exercise of an Option or SAR if the optionee has not made arrangements satisfactory to the Company to satisfy the tax withholding which the Company determines is necessary to comply with applicable requirements.
 
(d)   Duration of Options and SARs. The duration of Options and SARs shall be determined by the Committee, but in no event shall the duration of an Option or SAR exceed ten years from the date of its grant.
 
(e)   Vesting. Options and SARs shall contain such vesting terms as are determined by the Committee, at its sole discretion, including, without limitation, vesting upon the achievement of certain specified performance targets. In the event that no vesting determination is made by the Committee, Options and SARs shall vest as follows: (1) 25% on the first anniversary of the date of the grant; (2) 25% on the second anniversary of the date of the grant; (3) 25% on the third anniversary of the date of the grant; and (4) 25% on the fourth anniversary of the date of the grant.
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
(f)    Other Terms and Conditions. Options and SARs may contain such other provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine appropriate from time to time; provided, however, that, except in the event of a Change in Control, Disability or death of the optionee, no grant shall provide that an Option or SAR shall be exercisable in whole or in part for a period of twelve (12) months from the date on which the Option or SAR is granted. The grant of an Option or SAR to any employee shall not affect in any way the right of the Company and any Related Company to terminate the employment of such employee. The grant of an Option or SAR to any consultant shall not affect in any way the right of the Company and any Related Company to terminate the services of such consultant.
 
(g)   ISOs. The Committee, with respect to each grant of an Option to an optionee, shall determine whether such Option shall be an ISO, and, upon determining that an Option shall be an ISO, shall designate it as such in the written instrument evidencing such Option. If the written instrument evidencing an Option does not contain a designation that it is an ISO, it shall not be an ISO.
 
The aggregate fair market value (determined in each instance on the date on which an ISO is granted) of the KO Common Stock with respect to which ISOs are first exercisable by any optionee in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 for such optionee (or such other time limit as may be required by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended). If any subsidiary or Majority-Owned Related Company of the Company shall adopt a stock option plan under which options constituting ISOs may be granted, the fair market value of the stock on which any such incentive stock options are granted and the times at which such incentive stock options will first become exercisable shall be taken into account in determining the maximum amount of ISOs which may be granted to the optionee under this Plan in any calendar year.
 
Section 8. Nontransferability of Options and SARs
 
        No Option or SAR granted pursuant to the Plan shall be transferable otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During the lifetime of an optionee, the Option or SAR shall be exercisable only by the optionee personally or by the optionee's legal representative.
 
Section 9. Effect of Termination of Employment, Other Changes of Employment or Employee Status, Death, or a Change in Control
 
(a)   For Employees. For optionees who are employees of the Company or its Related Companies on the date of grant, the following provisions shall apply:
 
 
In the case of other leaves of absence not specified above, optionees will be deemed to have terminated employment (so that Options and SARs unvested will expire and the option/SAR exercise period will end on the earlier of 6 months from the date the leave began or the option expiration date provided in the grant), unless the Committee identifies a valid business interest in doing otherwise, in which case it may, specify what provisions it deems appropriate at its sole discretion; provided that the Committee shall have no obligation to consider any such matters.
 
(b)   For Consultants. For optionees who are consultants, the provisions relating to changes of work assignment, death, disability, Change in Control, or any other provision of an Option or SAR shall be determined by the Committee at the date of the grant.
 
(c)   Committee Retains Discretion To Establish Different Terms Than Those Provided in Sections 9(a) or 9(b). Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Committee may, at its sole discretion, establish different terms and conditions pertaining to the effect of an optionee's termination on the expiration or exercisability of Options and SARs at the time of grant or (with the consent of the affected optionee) on the expiration or exercisability of outstanding Options and SARs. However, no Option or SAR can have a term of more than fifteen years.
 
Section 10. No Rights as a Shareowner
 
        An optionee or a transferee of an optionee pursuant to Section 8 shall have no right as a shareowner with respect to any KO Common Stock covered by an Option or SAR or receivable upon the exercise of an Option or SAR, until the optionee or transferee shall have become the holder of record of such KO Common Stock. No adjustments shall be made for dividends in cash or other property or other distributions or rights in respect to such KO Common Stock covered by any Option or SAR for which the record date is prior to the date on which the optionee or transferee shall have in fact become the holder.
 
Section 11. Adjustment in the Number of Shares and in Option and Exercise Price
 
        In the event there is any change in the shares of KO Common Stock through the declaration of stock dividends, or stock splits, or through recapitalization or merger or consolidation or combination of shares or spin-offs or otherwise, the Committee or the Board shall make an appropriate adjustment in the number of shares of KO Common Stock available for Options and SARs as well as the number of shares of KO Common Stock subject to any outstanding Option or SAR and the Option price or exercise price thereof. Any such adjustment may provide for the
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
elimination of any fractional shares, which might otherwise become subject to any Option or SAR, without payment therefor.
 
Section 12. Amendments, Modifications and Termination of the Plan
 
        The Board or the Committee may terminate the Plan at any time. From time to time, the Board or the Committee may suspend the Plan, in whole or in part. From time to time, the Board or the Committee may amend the Plan, in whole or in part, including the adoption of amendments deemed necessary or desirable to qualify the Options or SARs under the laws of various countries (including tax laws) and under rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to optionees who are subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the 1934 Act, or to correct any defect or supply an omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Option or SAR granted thereunder, or for any other purpose or to any effect permitted by applicable laws and regulations, without the approval of the shareowners of the Company. However, in no event may additional shares of KO Common Stock be allocated to the Plan or any outstanding option or SAR be repriced or replaced without share-owner approval. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board or the Committee may make amendments applicable or inapplicable only to participants who are subject to Section 16 of the 1934 Act.
 
        No amendment or termination or modification of the Plan shall in any manner affect any Option or SAR theretofore granted without the consent of the optionee, except that the Committee may amend or modify the Plan in a manner that does affect Options and SARs theretofore granted upon a finding by the Committee that such amendment or modification is in the best interest of holders of outstanding Options and SARs affected thereby. Grants of ISOs may be made under this Plan until April 17, 2012 or such earlier date as this Plan is terminated, and grants of NSOs and SARs may be made until all of the 120,000,000 shares of KO Common Stock authorized for issuance hereunder (adjusted as provided in Sections 5 and 11) have been issued or until this Plan is terminated, whichever first occurs. The Plan shall terminate when there are no longer Options or SARs outstanding under the Plan, unless earlier terminated by the Board or by the Committee.
 
Section 13. Governing Law
 
Except to extent preempted by Federal Law, this Plan shall be construed, governed and enforced under the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to the conflicts of law principles thereof) and any and all disputes arising under this Plan are to be resolved exclusively by courts sitting in Delaware.
 
 
 
9
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.4
Section 1.   Purpose
The purpose of The Coca-Cola Company 2008 Stock Option Plan (the Plan) is to advance the interest of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) and its Related Companies (as defined in Section 2) by encouraging and enabling the acquisition of a financial interest in the Company by officers and other key employees of the Company or its Related Companies.  In addition, the Plan is intended to aid the Company and its Related Companies in attracting and retaining key employees, to stimulate the efforts of such employees and to strengthen their desire to remain in the employ of the Company and its Related Companies.
Section 2.   Definitions
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Business Day means a day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for securities trading.
Change in Control shall mean a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (1934 Act), as in effect on January 1, 2002, provided that such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as (i) any person (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act), is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act as in effect on January 1, 2002) directly or indirectly, of securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power for election of directors of the then outstanding securities of the Company or any successor of the Company; (ii) during any period of two (2) consecutive years or less, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of the Company cease, for any reason, to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors, unless the election or nomination for election of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period; (iii) the shareowners of the Company approve any merger or consolidation as a result of which the KO Common Stock (as defined below) shall be changed, converted or exchanged (other than a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) or any liquidation of the Company or any sale or other disposition of 50% or more of the assets or earning power of the Company, and such merger, consolidation, liquidation or sale is completed; or (iv) the shareowners of the Company approve any merger or consolidation to which the Company is a party as a result of which the persons who were shareowners of the Company immediately prior to the effective date of the merger or consolidation shall have beneficial ownership of less than 50% of the combined voting power for election of directors of the surviving corporation following the effective date of such merger or consolidation, and such merger or consolidation is completed; provided, however, that no Change in
 
 
 
 
 
 
Control shall be deemed to have occurred if, prior to such times as a Change in Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred, the Board of Directors determines otherwise. Additionally, no Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred under clause (i) if, subsequent to such time as a Change in Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred, a majority of the Directors in office prior to the acquisition of the securities by such person determines otherwise.
Committee means at least two non-employee Directors who are members of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Disabled or Disability means a condition for which a Participant becomes eligible for a disability benefit under the long term disability insurance policy issued to the Company providing Basic Long Term Disability Insurance benefits pursuant to The Coca-Cola Company Health and Welfare Benefits Plan, or under any other long term disability plan which hereafter may be maintained by the Company, whether or not the optionee is covered by such plans.
ISOmeans an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
KO Common Stock means the common stock of The Coca-Cola Company, par value $0.25 per share.
Majority-Owned Related Company means a Related Company in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the voting stock or capital on the date an Option is granted.
NSO means a stock option that does not constitute an ISO.
Options means ISOs and NSOs granted under this Plan.
Related Company or Related Companies means corporation(s) or other business organization(s) in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the voting stock or capital at the relevant time.
Years of Service means Years of Vesting Service as that term is defined in the Employee Retirement Plan of The Coca-Cola Company.
Section 3.   Eligibility
Options may be granted only to employees of the Company and its Majority-Owned Related Companies.
No person shall be granted the right to acquire, pursuant to Options granted under the Plan, more than 5% of the aggregate number of shares of KO Common Stock originally authorized under the Plan, as adjusted pursuant to Section 11.  No option shall be exercisable
 
 
 
-2-
 
 
unless the employee properly, timely and unconditionally executes (by any means approved by the plan administrator) a stock option agreement provided in connection with the stock option.
An individual who is granted an Option shall be referred to herein as an optionee.
Section 4.   Administration
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. No person, other than members of the Committee, shall have any discretion concerning decisions regarding the Plan. The Committee shall determine the key employees of the Company and its Majority-Owned Related Companies (including officers, whether or not they are directors) to whom, and the time or times at which, Options will be granted; the number of shares to be subject to each Option; the duration of each Option; the time or times within which the Option may be exercised; the cancellation of the Option (with the consent of the holder thereof); and the other conditions of the grant of the Option, at grant or while outstanding, pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The provisions and conditions of the Options need not be the same with respect to each optionee or with respect to each Option.
The Committee may, subject to the provisions of the Plan, establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary, or advisable, for the proper administration of the Plan, and may make determinations and may take such other action in connection with or in relation to the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable. Each determination or other action made or taken pursuant to the Plan, including interpretation of the Plan and the specific conditions and provisions of the Options granted hereunder by the Committee, shall be final and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons including, but without limitation, the Company, its Related Companies, the Committee, the Board, officers and the affected employees, optionees and the respective successors in interest of any of the foregoing.
Section 5.   Stock
(a)
 
The KO Common Stock to be issued, transferred and/or sold under the Plan shall be made available from authorized and unissued KO Common Stock or from the Companys treasury shares. The total number of shares of KO Common Stock that may be issued or transferred under the Plan pursuant to Options granted thereunder may not exceed 140,000,000 shares (subject to adjustment as described below); provided, however, that in no event shall the number of shares of KO Common Stock that may be issued, transferred or sold under the Plan exceed 5% of the number of shares of KO Common Stock outstanding on a given date.  Such number of shares shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 10.
(b)
 
Shares Counted Against Limitation.  If an  Option is exercised by delivery, sale or attestation of  Shares of KO Common Stock under Section 6, or if the tax withholding obligation is satisfied by withholding or selling Shares of KO Common Stock under Section 6, the number of Shares of KO Common Stock deemed to have been issued under the Plan (for purposes of the limitation set forth in this section) shall be the number of Shares of KO Common Stock that were subject to the Option or portion thereof so exercised and not the net number of shares of KO Common Stock actually issued upon such exercise.
 
 
-3-
 
(c)
 
Lapsed Awards.  If an Option: (i) expires; (ii) is terminated, surrendered, or canceled without having been exercised in full; or (iii) is otherwise forfeited in whole or in part, then the unissued shares of KO Common Stock that were subject to such Option and/or such surrendered, canceled, or forfeited Shares of KO Common Stock shall become available for future grant under the Plan.
Section 6.   Awards of Options
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Plan, Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)  Option Price. The option price shall be no less than 100% of the fair market value of the KO Common Stock on the date of grant. The fair market value of a share of KO Common Stock shall be the average of the high and low market prices at which a share of KO Common Stock shall have been sold on the date of grant, or on the next preceding trading day if such date was not a trading date, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions listing.
(b)  Payment of Option Price.   The option price shall be paid in full at the time of exercise, except as provided in the next two sentences.  The cashless exercise method is permitted for any Options granted under this Plan, unless prohibited by law in a particular jurisdiction.  If an exercise is executed by the plan administrator using the cashless method, the exercise price shall be paid in full no later than the close of business on the third Business Day following the exercise.
Payment may be in cash or, upon conditions established by the Committee, by delivery of shares of KO Common Stock owned by the optionee for at least six months prior to the date of exercise.
The optionee, if a U.S. taxpayer, may elect to satisfy Federal, state and local income tax liabilities due by reason of the exercise by the withholding of shares of KO Common Stock.
If shares are delivered to pay the option price or if shares are withheld for U.S. taxpayers to satisfy such tax liabilities, the value of the shares delivered or withheld shall be computed on the basis of the reported market price at which a share of KO Common Stock most recently traded prior to the time the exercise order was processed. Such price will be determined by reference to the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions listing.
(c)  Exercise May Be Delayed until Withholding is Satisfied.   The Company may refuse to recognize the exercise of an Option if the optionee has not made arrangements satisfactory to the Company to satisfy the tax withholding that the Company determines is necessary to comply with applicable requirements.
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
(d)  Duration of Options.  The duration of Options shall be determined by the Committee, but in no event shall the duration of an Option exceed ten years from the date of its grant.
(e) Vesting.  Options shall contain such vesting terms as are determined by the Committee, at its sole discretion, including, without limitation, vesting upon the achievement of certain specified performance targets.  In the event that no vesting determination is made by the Committee, Options shall vest as follows: (1) 25% on the first anniversary of the date of the grant; (2) 25% on the second anniversary of the date of the grant; (3) 25% on the third anniversary of the date of the grant; and (4) 25% on the fourth anniversary of the date of the grant.
(f)  Other Terms and Conditions.   Options may contain such other provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine appropriate from time to time; provided, however, that, except in the event of a Change in Control, Disability or death of the optionee, no grant shall provide that an Option shall be exercisable in whole or in part for a period of twelve months from the date on which the Option is granted. The grant of an Option to any employee shall not affect in any way the right of the Company and any Related Company to terminate the employment of such employee.
(g)  ISOs.   The Committee, with respect to each grant of an Option to an optionee, shall determine whether such Option shall be an ISO, and, upon determining that an Option shall be an ISO, shall designate it as such in the written instrument evidencing such Option. If the written instrument evidencing an Option does not contain a designation that it is an ISO, it shall not be an ISO.
The aggregate fair market value (determined in each instance on the date on which an ISO is granted) of the KO Common Stock with respect to which ISOs are first exercisable by any optionee in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 for such optionee (or such other time limit as may be required by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended). If any subsidiary or Majority-Owned Related Company of the Company shall adopt a stock option plan under which options constituting ISOs may be granted, the fair market value of the stock on which any such incentive stock options are granted and the times at which such incentive stock options will first become exercisable shall be taken into account in determining the maximum amount of ISOs which may be granted to the optionee under this Plan in any calendar year.
Section 7.   Nontransferability of Options
No Option granted pursuant to the Plan shall be transferable otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  During the lifetime of an optionee, the Option shall be exercisable only by the optionee personally or by the optionees legal representative.
 
  - -5-
 
(a)  The following chart describes the impact on vesting and the exercise period of certain events:
 
 
 
6
 
In the case of other leaves of absence not specified above, optionees will be deemed to have terminated employment (so that Options unvested will expire and the option exercise period will end on the earlier of six months from the date the leave began or the option expiration date provided in the grant), unless the Committee identifies a valid business interest in doing otherwise, in which case it may specify what provisions it deems appropriate at its sole discretion; provided that the Committee shall have no obligation to consider any such matters.
(b)           Committee Discretion to Establish Different Terms.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Committee may, at its sole discretion, establish different terms and conditions pertaining to the effect of an optionees termination on the expiration or exercisability of Options at the time of grant or (with the consent of the affected optionee) on the expiration or exercisability of outstanding Options.  However, no Option can have a term of more than ten years.
Section 9.   No Rights as a Shareowner
An optionee or a transferee of an optionee pursuant to Section 7 shall have no right as a shareowner with respect to any KO Common Stock covered by an Option or receivable upon the exercise of an Option, until the optionee or transferee shall have become the holder of record of such KO Common Stock.  No adjustments shall be made for dividends in cash or other property or other distributions or rights in respect to such KO Common Stock covered by any Option for which the record date is prior to the date on which the optionee or transferee shall have in fact become the holder.
Section 10.   Adjustment in the Number of Shares and in Option and Exercise Price
In the event there is any change in the shares of KO Common Stock through the declaration of stock dividends, or stock splits, or through recapitalization or merger or consolidation or combination of shares or spin-offs or otherwise, the Committee or the Board shall make an appropriate adjustment in the number of shares of KO Common Stock available for Options as well as the number of shares of KO Common Stock subject to any outstanding Option and the Option price thereof. Any such adjustment may provide for the elimination of any fractional shares, which might otherwise become subject to any Option, without payment therefor.
 
 
 
-7-
 
 
Section 11.   Amendments, Modifications and Termination of the Plan
The Board or the Committee may terminate the Plan at any time. From time to time, the Board or the Committee may suspend the Plan, in whole or in part. From time to time, the Board or the Committee may amend the Plan, in whole or in part, including the adoption of amendments deemed necessary or desirable to qualify the Options under the laws of various countries (including tax laws) and under rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to optionees who are subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the 1934 Act, or to correct any defect or supply an omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Option granted thereunder, or for any other purpose or to any effect permitted by applicable laws and regulations, without the approval of the shareowners of the Company. However, in no event may additional shares of KO Common Stock be allocated to the Plan or any outstanding option be repriced or replaced without shareowner approval. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board or the Committee may make amendments applicable or inapplicable only to participants who are subject to Section 16 of the 1934 Act.
No amendment or termination or modification of the Plan shall in any manner affect any Option theretofore granted without the consent of the optionee, except that the Committee may amend or modify the Plan in a manner that does affect Options theretofore granted upon a finding by the Committee that such amendment or modification is in the best interest of holders of outstanding Options affected thereby. Grants of ISOs may be made under this Plan until February 20, 2018 or such earlier date as this Plan is terminated, and grants of NSOs may be made until all of the 140,000,000 shares of KO Common Stock authorized for issuance hereunder (adjusted as provided in Sections 5 and 10) have been issued or until this Plan is terminated, whichever first occurs. The Plan shall terminate when there are no longer Options outstanding under the Plan, unless earlier terminated by the Board or by the Committee.
Section 12.   Governing Law
Except to extent preempted by Federal Law, this Plan shall be construed, governed and enforced under the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to the conflicts of law principles thereof) and any and all disputes arising under this Plan are to be resolved exclusively by courts sitting in Delaware.
 
 
 
Options granted under The Coca-Cola Company 2008 Stock Option Plan to employees based in France (the "Employees") of the Related Companies (as defined) of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) may be granted under the terms of this Addendum as follows:
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.5
Account Number:
The Coca-Cola Company ("KO") hereby grants to the optionee named below options to purchase KO common stock at the price per share set forth below, subject to the provisions of this Agreement together with the provisions of The Coca-Cola Company 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"):
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning provided in the Plan.  The Plan is incorporated into, and made a part of, this Agreement.
 
 
  1
 
The optionee agrees to pay to Merrill Lynch any costs associated with the sale of shares of KO common stock acquired upon exercise of the options (whether such shares are sold to pay the option exercise price, to satisfy tax withholding requirements or for other reasons).
For employees in Switzerland, the optionee agrees that the taxation of the options will occur at the time the options are exercised.
3.   .  The optionee may not transfer the options; provided that upon the optionee's
Options are not transferable
      death the options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  During the lifetime of
      the optionee, the options shall be exercisable only by the optionee personally or, in the event of the optionee's
      Disability if a legal representative has been appointed to act on behalf of the optionee, then by the optionee's
      legal representative.
 
2 
 
Optionee may be released from the effects of this Section 4 if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that such action is in the best interest of KO and its stockholders.
7.   .  Each notice relating to the option or its exercise shall be in writing.  Requests and other notices 
Notices
regarding the exercise of options shall be delivered (whether by overnight delivery or by mail) as follows:
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith at Merrill Lynch Group Employee Services
Attention:  The Coca-Cola Company Stock Option Plan Unit
1400 Merrill Lynch Drive
Mail Stop 04-BS-PRO
Pennington, New Jersey 08534, USA
      All notices to KO shall be addressed as follows:     Director, Executive Compensation
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, Georgia 30313, USA
      All notices to the optionee shall be addressed to the principal address of the optionee on file with KO.  Either 
KO or the optionee may designate a different address by written notice       to the other.  Written notice to these 
 addresses shall be effective to bind KO, the optionee and the optionee's successors and assigns.
8.   .  The optionee hereby agrees that the Committee may, subject to the provisions of 
Administrative matters
the Plan, establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or       advisable for the proper administration of 
the Plan, and may make determinations and may take such other action in connection with or in relation to the 
Plan as it deems necessary        or advisable.  Each determination or other action made or taken pursuant to the Plan, 
including interpretation of the Plan and the specific conditions and provisions of this       Agreement and the options, 
shall be final and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons including, but without limitation, KO, the Related Companies, the Committee, the KO       Board of Directors, officers and the affected employees of KO, and the optionees and their respective successors in interest.
      When the issuance or transfer of KO common stock pursuant to the exercise of an option may, in the opinion of
3 
 
 
      KO, conflict or be inconsistent with any applicable law or regulation of any governmental agency having
      jurisdiction, KO reserves the right to refuse to issue or transfer that KO common stock.
10.   .   The optionee consents and acknowledges that:
Additional consents
11.  .  This Agreement has been made in and shall be construed under and in accordance with
Governing law
      the laws of the State of Delaware, USA.
12. .  Paragraph headings are included for convenience and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation
Headings
      of this Agreement.
  4
 
 
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
By:  The Committee
                                                                  
Authorized Signature
Using the Merrill Lynch voice response system or other available means,  the optionee must accept the above options to purchase shares of KO common stock in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, acknowledge that he or she has read this Agreement and the Plan, and agree to be bound by this Agreement, the Plan and the actions of the Committee.  If he or she does not do so  prior to [Date], then KO may declare the option grant null and void at any time. Also, in the unfortunate event that death occurs before this Agreement has been accepted,  this option grant will be voided, which means the options will terminate automatically and cannot be transferred to the optionee's heirs pursuant to the optionee's will or the  laws of descent and distribution.
5 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the term Prohibited Activity shall include any and all of the following:
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or shall be interpreted as diminishing or otherwise limiting KOs right under applicable state law or any prior agreement I have signed or made with KO regarding trade secrets, confidential information, or intellectual property.
 
 
  6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.6
Account Number:
The Coca-Cola Company ("KO") hereby grants to the optionee named below options to purchase KO common stock at the price per share set forth below, subject to the provisions of this Agreement together with the provisions of The Coca-Cola Company 2002 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"):
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning provided in the Plan.  The Plan is incorporated into, and made a part of, this Agreement.
1
        The optionee agrees to pay to Merrill Lynch any costs associated with the sale of shares of KO common stock acquired upon exercise of the options (whether such shares are sold         to pay the option exercise price, to satisfy tax withholding requirements or for other reasons).
For employees in Switzerland, the optionee agrees that the taxation of the options will occur at the time the options are exercised.
3.   .   The optionee may not transfer the options; provided that upon the optionee's 
Options are not transferable
death the options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent       and distribution.  During the lifetime of 
the optionee, the options shall be exercisable only by the optionee personally or, in the event of the optionee's 
Disability if a legal       representative has been appointed to act on behalf of the optionee, then by the optionee's 
legal representative.
 
 
 
 
 
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions listing, less the option exercise price per share shown above, multiplied by the number of options exercised.  Interest shall be calculated using the weighted prime rate at SunTrust Bank, Atlanta.
Optionee may be released from the effects of this Section 4 if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that such action is in the best interest of KO and its stockholders.
7.   .    Each notice relating to the option or its exercise shall be in writing.  Requests and other notices 
Notices
regarding the exercise of options shall be delivered (whether by overnight      delivery or by mail) as follows:
 
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith at Merrill Lynch Group Employee Services
Attention:  The Coca-Cola Company Stock Option Plan Unit
1400 Merrill Lynch Drive
Mail Stop 04-BS-PRO
Pennington, New Jersey 08534, USA
      All notices to KO shall be addressed as follows:     Director, Executive Compensation
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, Georgia 30313, USA
      All notices to the optionee shall be addressed to the principal address of the optionee on file with KO.  Either 
KO or the optionee may designate a different address by written notice       to the other.  Written notice to these 
addresses shall be effective to bind KO, the optionee and the optionee's successors and assigns.
8.   .  The optionee hereby agrees that the Committee may, subject to the provisions of 
Administrative matters
the Plan, establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or       advisable for the proper administration of 
the Plan, and may make determinations and may take such other action in connection with or in relation to the 
Plan as it deems necessary       or advisable.  Each determination or other action made or taken pursuant to the Plan, 
including interpretation of the Plan and the specific conditions and provisions of this       Agreement and the options, 
shall be final and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons including, but without limitation, KO, the Related Companies, the Committee, the KO        Board of Directors, officers and the affected employees of KO, and the optionees and their respective successors in interest.
      When the issuance or transfer of KO common stock pursuant to the exercise of an option may, in the opinion of 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
       KO, conflict or be inconsistent with any applicable law or regulationof any governmental agency having 
jurisdiction, KO reserves the right to refuse to issue or transfer that KO        common stock.
10.   .   The optionee consents and acknowledges that:
Additional consents
11. .  This Agreement has been made in and shall be construed under and in accordance with 
Governing law
the laws of the State of Delaware, USA.
12. .  Paragraph headings are included for convenience and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation 
Headings
of this Agreement.
4
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
By:  The Committee
                                                                  
Authorized Signature
Using the Merrill Lynch voice response system or other available means,  the optionee must accept the above options to purchase shares of KO common stock in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, acknowledge that he or she has read this Agreement and the Plan, and agree to be bound by this Agreement, the Plan and the actions of the Committee.  If he or she does not do so  prior to [Date], then KO may declare the option grant null and void at any time. Also, in the unfortunate event that death occurs before this Agreement has been accepted,  this option grant will be voided, which means the options will terminate automatically and cannot be transferred to the optionee's heirs pursuant to the optionee's will or the  laws of descent and distribution.
5
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the term Prohibited Activity shall include any and all of the following:
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or shall be interpreted as diminishing or otherwise limiting KOs right under applicable state law or any prior agreement I have signed or made with KO regarding trade secrets, confidential information, or intellectual property.
 
 
6
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.7
Account Number:
The Coca-Cola Company ("KO") hereby grants to the optionee named below options to purchase KO common stock at the price per share set forth below, subject to the provisions of this Agreement together with the provisions of The Coca-Cola Company 2008 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"):
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning provided in the Plan.  The Plan is incorporated into, and made a part of, this Agreement.
 
1
 
     
The optionee agrees to pay to Merrill Lynch any costs associated with the sale of shares of KO common stock acquired upon exercise of the options (whether such shares are sold        to pay the option exercise price, to satisfy tax withholding requirements or for other reasons).
      For employees in Switzerland, the optionee agrees that the taxation of the options will occur at the time the options are exercised.
3.   .   The optionee may not transfer the options; provided that upon the optionee's 
Options are not transferable
death the options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent       and distribution.  During the lifetime of 
the optionee, the options shall be exercisable only by the optionee personally or, in the event of the optionee's 
Disability if a legal       representative has been appointed to act on behalf of the optionee, then by the optionee's 
legal representative.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
      exercise of any portion of this option shall be the closing price per share on the date of the exercise thereof, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite       Transactions listing, less the option exercise price per share shown above, multiplied by the number of options exercised.  Interest shall be calculated using the weighted prime       rate at SunTrust Bank, Atlanta.
Optionee may be released from the effects of this Section 4 if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that such action is in the best interest of KO and its stockholders.
Optionee expressly acknowledges and affirms that the foregoing provisions of this Section 4 are material and important terms of this Agreement, and optionee expressly agrees that if all or any part or application of the foregoing provisions of this Section 4 are held or determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever by a court of competent jurisdiction in an action between optionee and KO, KO shall be entitled to receive from optionee, in exchange for the exercise price per share shown above, all shares of KO common stock acquired by optionee upon exercise of any portion of the option and held by optionee.  If optionee has sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of any shares of KO common stock acquired by optionee upon exercise of any portion of the option, KO shall be entitled to receive from optionee the gain associated with such sale, transfer or disposal, plus interest calculated through the date of payment to KO.  The gain associated with the sale, transfer or other disposal of any share of KO common stock acquired by optionee upon exercise of any portion of the option shall be the closing price per share on the date of such sale, transfer or disposal, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions listing, less the option exercise price per share shown above, multiplied by the number of shares of KO common stock sold, transferred or disposed of.  Interest shall be calculated using the weighted prime rate at SunTrust Bank, Atlanta.
7.   .   Each notice relating to the option or its exercise shall be in writing.  Requests and other notices 
Notices
regarding the exercise of options shall be delivered (whether by overnight       delivery or by mail) as follows:
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith at Merrill Lynch Group Employee Services
Attention:  The Coca-Cola Company Stock Option Plan Unit
1400 Merrill Lynch Drive
Mail Stop 04-BS-PRO
Pennington, New Jersey 08534, USA
      All notices to KO shall be addressed as follows:     Director, Executive Compensation
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, Georgia 30313, USA
      All notices to the optionee shall be addressed to the principal address of the optionee on file with KO.  Either 
KO or the optionee may designate a different address by written notice       to the other.  Written notice to these 
addresses shall be effective to bind KO, the optionee and the optionee's successors and assigns.
8.   .   The optionee hereby agrees that the Committee may, subject to the provisions of 
Administrative matters
the Plan, establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or       advisable for the proper administration of 
the Plan, and may make determinations and may take such other action in connection with or in relation to the 
Plan as it deems necessary       or advisable.  Each determination or other action made or taken pursuant to the Plan, 
including interpretation of the Plan and the specific conditions and provisions of this       Agreement and the options, 
shall be final and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons including, but without limitation, KO, the Related Companies, the Committee, the KO       Board of Directors, officers and the affected employees of KO, and the optionees and their respective successors in interest.
 
 
3
 
 
 
      When the issuance or transfer of KO common stock pursuant to the exercise of an option may, in the opinion of 
KO, conflict or be inconsistent with any applicable law or regulation       of any governmental agency having 
jurisdiction, KO reserves the right to refuse to issue or transfer that KO common stock.
10.  .   The optionee consents and acknowledges that:
Additional consents
11.   .   This Agreement has been made in and shall be construed under and in accordance with 
Governing law
the laws of the State of Delaware, USA.
12.   .   Paragraph headings are included for convenience and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation 
Headings
of this Agreement.
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
By:  The Committee
                                                                  
               Authorized Signature
Using the Merrill Lynch voice response system or other available means, the optionee must accept the above options to purchase shares of KO common stock in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, acknowledge that he or she has read this Agreement and the Plan, and agree to be bound by this Agreement, the Plan and the actions of the Committee.  If he or she does not do so prior to [Date], then KO may declare the option grant null and void at any time. Also, in the unfortunate event that death occurs before this Agreement has been accepted, this option grant will be voided, which means the options will terminate automatically and cannot be transferred to the optionee's heirs pursuant to the optionee's will or the laws of descent and distribution.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  5
 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the term Prohibited Activity shall include any and all of the following:
 
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or shall be interpreted as diminishing or otherwise limiting KOs right under applicable state law or any prior agreement I have signed or made with KO regarding trade secrets, confidential information, or intellectual property.
 
6
 
 


