FILE:KO/KO-8K-20090610154949.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
FORM 8-K
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 10, 2009, The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) announced that effective July 1, 2009, Harry L. Anderson, the Companys vice president and controller, will lead the newly created Global Business and Technology Services function.  This new structure, which will integrate three core functions (i) Global Business Services, (ii) Global Information Technology and (iii) Transformational Productivity, has been created in furtherance of the Companys ongoing productivity and transformation initiatives.
Mr. Anderson will continue to serve as controller of the Company until a successor is elected by the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board).  The Board is expected to consider the matter of a successor at its regularly scheduled meeting in July 2009.  The Companys management intends to recommend to the Board that it elect Kathy N. Waller, the Companys vice president and chief of internal audit, to serve as the next controller of the Company, effective August 1, 2009.
A copy of the Companys press release regarding these and related matters is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01                                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 

               & #160;                                 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Exhibit 99.1
             
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
             Media Relations Department
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
                             P.O.  Box 1734, Atlanta, Georgia 30301
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
              Telephone (404) 676-2121
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
    
 
             FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                Contact:             Dana Bolden                    60;                                                         (404) 676-2683                      
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
 In support of its ongoing productivity and transformation initiatives, The Coca-Cola Company today announced the formation of a new structure that will integrate three core functions:  Global Business Services, Global Information Technology and Transformational Productivity.  The newly formed organization, Global Business and Technology Services (GBTS), will enable the Company to deliver global business services such as compensation and benefits administration, accounting and financial reporting, and application development and support -- services that are highly dependent on technology and standardized processes  to its business units in a more effective and efficient way.
ATLANTA, June 10, 2009
 
Effective July 1, Harry Anderson, currently vice president and controller, will lead this new organization and report to Alex Cummings, chief administrative officer, and Gary Fayard, chief financial officer.
 
     Mr. Anderson joined the Company in 2001 and, prior to his most recent role, served as chief financial officer of Coca-Cola North America from 2004-2007.  In 2003, he was named vice president and director of Supply Chain and Manufacturing Management.  Before joining the Company, he served in roles of increasing
   
 
 
 
 
 
 - more - 
 
 
Page 2 of 3
 
responsibility at Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., where he was executive vice president of Finance and Operations for Turner Entertainment Group. Prior to his roles at Turner Broadcasting, Mr. Anderson worked in Audit and Accounting Services at Price Waterhouse.  He has a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Alabama.
 
The Companys management will recommend at the July Board of Directors meeting that the Board elect Kathy Waller as controller, effective August 1.   Ms. Waller is currently vice president and chief of internal audit.  Ms. Waller is a Certified Public Accountant who joined The Coca-Cola Company in 1987 as a senior accountant in the Accounting Research Department. Three years later, she became principal accountant for the Northeast Europe/Africa Group and, in 1991,she became marketing controller for the McDonalds Group. Ms. Waller was then named financial services manager for the Africa Group and The Minute Maid Company in 1996.  She served as the director of Financial Reporting from 1998 to 2004 when she assumed her current position.  Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Waller worked for the firm now known as Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.  She received her bachelors and MBA degrees from the University of Rochester in New York.
 
The Companys management also will recommend at the July meeting that the Board of Directors appoint Connie McDaniel to the role of chief of internal audit, effective August 1.  Ms. McDaniel, currently vice president and head of Global Finance Transformation, has played an instrumental role in leading the finance transformation over the last two years.
 
Previously, Ms. McDaniel served as controller, a role held from 1999 to 2007.  Prior to that, she served in other critical leadership roles including division finance manager of Germany, division finance manager of the Southeast and West Asia Division, and director of Financial Reporting.  Before joining the Company, Ms. McDaniel spent nine years at Ernst & Young.  She has a bachelor's degree in accounting from Georgia State University and is a Certified Public Accountant.
 
Jeremy Faa, currently global director of Finance Transformation, will expand his responsibilities to include the overall strategic direction and implementation of the global finance transformation.
 
Prior to his leadership role in Finance Transformation, Mr. Faa served as Group CFO and director of Business Strategy for the Pacific Group.  He joined The Coca-Cola Company in 1997 and has since held a number of roles, including the Business Development manager and Operations director for Coca-Cola Indonesia and director of                                            
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3
 
 
Business Planning and executive assistant to the Coca-Cola Asia Group President.  Prior to joining Coca-Cola, Mr. Faa was a consultant at the L\E\K Partnership with assignment in AustraliaZealand.  Mr. Faa has degrees in law and commerce from Bond University in Australia.
,
Indonesia and
New
 
Ann Taylor, currently vice president and chief financial officer, Transformational Productivity, will head up Global Business Services, effective July 1, reporting to Mr. Anderson.  Since joining the Company in 1984, Ms. Taylor has held a variety of finance roles with increasing responsibilities, including director of Investor Relations from 2004 to 2008.  Ms. Taylor served as chief financial officer for the Europe, Eurasia and Middle East group, and prior to that role, she was division finance manager for Great Britain and Ireland, division finance manager for Northwest Europe, and chief financial officer for Western Europe.  Before joining the Company, she worked at what is now Deloitte Touche .  Ms. Taylor has a bachelors degree in math and economics from Wake Forest University and a masters degree in business from the University of Virginia.
Tohmatsu
 
 The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with nearly 500 sparkling and still brands. Along with Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company's portfolio includes 12 other billion dollar brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, POWER, Minute Maid and Georgia Coffee. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, juices and juice drinks and ready-to-drink teas and coffees. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate of nearly 1.6 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that protect the environment, conserve resources and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. For more information about our Company, please visit our website at
ADE
www.thecoca-colacompany.com.
 


