FILE:KO/KO-8K-20101209112759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 9, 2010, the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) increased the size of the Board to 15 members and elected Howard G. Buffett as a Director of the Company.  Mr. Buffett was appointed to the Public Issues and Diversity Review Committee, effective January 1, 2011.
Mr. Buffett will participate in the Compensation and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Coca-Cola Company, dated effective as of January 1, 2009 (the Compensation Plan), pursuant to which in 2011 he will be entitled to annual compensation of $175,000, of which, up to $50,000 may be paid in quarterly installments in cash or deferred share units at Mr. Buffetts discretion and the remaining $125,000 will be paid in deferred share units. The Compensation Plan is described further on pages 35 to 39 of the Companys proxy statement for its 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareowners filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 5, 2010.
A copy of the Companys press release announcing the election of Mr. Buffett to the Board is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT:                                      Kerry Tressler
+1 (404) 676-2683
pressinquiries@na.ko.com
 
 We are delighted to welcome Howard to our Board, said Muhtar Kent, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Coca-Cola Company.  Howard brings a globalists perspective on sustainability, extensive knowledge of the Companys bottling business and significant public company board experience, including his leadership position on the board of our largest shareowner Berkshire Hathaway.  He is well recognized for his good judgment and great work to improve communities throughout the world.  Howard will be an invaluable addition to The Coca-Cola Company.
 
In addition to his service on corporate boards, Mr. Buffet has served in elected office in Nebraska, on two Office of the United States Trade Representative committees, and as Chairman of the Nebraska Ethanol Authority and Development Board.  He is a member of the Commission on Presidential Debates, and serves on numerous non-profit boards.
 
Mr. Buffett has received the Aztec Eagle Award from the President of Mexico, the highest honor bestowed on a foreign citizen by the Government of Mexico, and has been recognized by the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture as one of the most distinguished individuals in agriculture.  He was appointed a United Nations Goodwill Ambassador Against Hunger in 2007.
About The Coca-Cola Company
 
The Coca-Cola Company (NYSE: KO) is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 500 sparkling and still brands. Along with Coca-Cola, recognized as the world's most valuable brand, the Company's portfolio includes 12 other billion dollar brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, Powerade, Minute Maid, Simply and Georgia. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, juices and juice drinks and ready-to-drink teas and coffees. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate of 1.6 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that protect the environment, conserve resources and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate.


