FILE:KO/KO-8K-20100907160500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
As previously reported, on February 25, 2010, The Coca-Cola Company, a Delaware corporation (TCCC), Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., a Delaware corporation (CCE), International CCE, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCE (New CCE), and Cobalt Subsidiary LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of TCCC (Merger Sub), entered into a Business Separation and Merger Agreement (the Merger Agreement), pursuant to which TCCC will acquire all of the North American business of CCE (the Merger).
 
On February 25, 2010, March 8, 2010 and March 10, 2010, three putative shareholder class action complaints were filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia on behalf of all shareholders of CCE (other than defendants) challenging the proposed Merger. The action is captioned In re The Coca-Cola Shareholders Litigation (C.A. No. 2010-cv-182035) (the Georgia Action). The complaint alleges that by virtue of TCCCs stock ownership and business dealings with CCE, TCCC controls and dominates CCE and therefore owes CCE a duty of entire fairness and a duty not to misuse its control of CCE for its own ends, which TCCC breached because, among other things, the proposed Merger is unfair as to price and process. Plaintiffs further allege that the CCE directors have violated their fiduciary duties of care, loyalty, candor and good faith by pursuing the proposed Merger, which is not entirely fair to CCE shareholders because, among other things, the May 25, 2010 Form S-4 Registration Statement filed by New CCE with the SEC fails to provide shareholders with the material information relevant to determine the fairness of the proposed Merger and evidences the CCE directors failure to appropriately consider the proposed Merger. In addition, on March 1, 2010, March 3, 2010, March 8, 2010 and March 10, 2010, five putative shareholder class action complaints were filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware on behalf of all shareholders of CCE (other than defendants) challenging the proposed Merger. The consolidated action is captioned In re Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Shareholders Litigation (Consolidated C.A. No. 5291- VCN) (the Delaware Action). The complaint alleges that the proposed Merger arises out of an unlawful plan and scheme for TCCC to acquire CCEs entire North American bottlin g business for grossly inadequate consideration and in breach of defendants fiduciary duties.
 
On September 3, 2010, the parties to the Georgia Action executed a memorandum of understanding (the MOU) containing the terms for the parties agreement in principle to resolve the Georgia Action. The MOU provides, among other things, that, in consideration for the settlement of the Georgia Action, the Merger Agreement will be amended to reflect that (i) the Termination Fee, as defined in Section 8.2(c) of the Merger Agreement is reduced from $200,000,000 to $180,000,000, (ii) Section 8.2(d)(D) of the Merger Agreement is modified such that the 365 calendar day period following the termination of the Merger Agreement referred to in that paragraph is reduced to nine (9) months following the termination of the Merger Agreement, (iii) Section 6.22 of the Merger Agreement is modified such that the time during which New CCE shall have the right to purchase all of TCCCs right, title and interest in the German Entity (as defined in the Merger Agreement) is expanded from a period of eighteen (18) months to thirty-six (36) months after the date of the Merger Agreement to a period of (18) months to thirty-nine (39) months after the date of the Merger Agreement, and (iv) the survival period for the representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement as set forth in the first sentence of Section 9.1 therein, with certain exceptions, is reduced from one (1) year to nine (9) months from the Closing Date, as defined in the Merger Agreement.
On September 6, 2010, TCCC, CCE, New CCE and Merger Sub entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Business Separation and Merger Agreement (Amendment No. 1) reflecting the foregoing amendments to the Merger Agreement.
Except as otherwise specifically amended in Amendment No. 1, the Merger Agreement, as modified by Amendment No. 1, remains in full force and effect. A copy of Amendment No. 1 is attached as Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
 
 
 
 
The response to Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated into this Item 8.01.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
Amendment No. 1 (this ), dated as of September 6, 2010, to that certain Business Separation and Merger Agreement, dated as of February 25, 2010 (the ), by and among COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC., a Delaware corporation (), INTERNATIONAL CCE, INC., a Delaware corporation (), THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (), and COBALT SUBSIDIARY LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ( and together with CCE, Splitco and TCCC, each a  and collectively, the ).
Amendment
Merger Agreement
CCE
Splitco
TCCC
Merger Sub
Party
Parties
 
 
WHEREAS, CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Merger Sub are parties to the Merger Agreement.
 
WHEREAS, CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Merger Sub desire to amend the Merger Agreement in the manner set forth below.
 
In consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein and in the Merger Agreement, CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Merger Sub agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
499,332,154 shares of CCE Common Stock were issued and outstanding.
 
 
10,966,509 CCE Stock Units were outstanding; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


