FILE:KO/KO-8K-20111219164828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 15, 2011
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (404) 676-2121
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
1
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 15, 2011, the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) increased the size of the Board to 16 members and elected Richard M. Daley as a Director of the Company. Mr. Daley was appointed to the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance, effective immediately following his election.
Mr. Daley will participate in The Coca-Cola Company Compensation and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, dated effective as of January 1, 2009 (the Compensation Plan), pursuant to which in 2012 he will be entitled to annual compensation of $175,000, of which up to $50,000 may be paid in quarterly installments in cash or deferred share units at Mr. Daley's discretion and the remaining $125,000 will be paid in deferred share units. Mr. Daley will receive prorated compensation under the Compensation Plan for 2011. The Compensation Plan is described further starting on page 42 of the Company's proxy statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareowners filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2011. There are no transactions in which Mr. Daley has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of Mr. Daley to the Board is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
2

Exhibit 99.1
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY ELECTS RICHARD M. DALEY AS DIRECTOR
ATLANTA, Dec. 15, 2011
- The Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company today elected Richard M. Daley as a Director of the Company, effective immediately. Daley, 69, is the former mayor of Chicago and currently serves as of counsel at the international law firm Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP and is the managing principal of Tur Partners LLC, an investment and advisory firm.
As part of his election, Daley was appointed to the Company's Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance.
Mr. Daley brings significant public policy expertise and experience in creating sustainable growth opportunities for businesses and communities to our Company, said Muhtar Kent, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Coca-Cola Company. His experience and insights will be invaluable as we continue to work to grow our business and invest in the fabric of the communities we serve.
Over the course of almost 40 years in public life, Daley has been recognized for his efforts to foster business development and economic growth. As the longest serving mayor of his hometown of Chicago from 1989 to 2011, he drove significant redevelopment efforts across the city that helped improve its competitive position on the national and international stage, while also helping the region become more environmentally sustainable.
   
Prior to serving as mayor, Daley was Illinois state senator from 1972 to 1980 and Cook County State's attorney from 1980 to 1989. Over the course of his career, he has received numerous public service awards, including the National Jefferson Award for Greatest Public Service by an Elected or Appointed Official from the American Institute for Public Service; the Public Service Leadership Award from the National Council for Urban Economic Development; the Kevin Lynch Award from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; and the Catalyst Award for Urban Park Leadership from the Urban Parks Institute.
Daley is also a senior advisor to JPMorgan Chase, where he will chair the new "Global Cities Initiative," a joint project of JPMorgan Chase and the Brookings Institution to help cities identify and leverage their greatest economic development resources. He also serves as a senior fellow at the Harris School of Public Policy at the University of Chicago.
About The Coca-Cola Company
The Coca-Cola Company
(NYSE: KO) is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 500 sparkling and still brands. Led by Coca-Cola, the world's most valuable brand, our Company's portfolio features 15 billion dollar brands including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, Powerade, Minute Maid, Simply, Georgia and Del Valle. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, ready-to-drink coffees and juices and juice drinks. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy our beverages at a rate of 1.7 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint, support active, healthy living, create a safe, inclusive work environment for our associates, and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. The Coca-Cola system ranks among the world's top five private employers with more than 700,000 system employees. For more information, please visit
www.thecoca-colacompany.com
or follow us on Twitter at
twitter.com/CocaColaCo
.
###


