FILE:KO/KO-8K-20110217161325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 17, 2011, the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") elected Evan G. Greenberg as a Director of the Company, which filled an existing vacancy on the Board.  Mr. Greenberg was appointed to the Audit Committee, effective immediately following his election.
 
Mr. Greenberg will participate in The Coca-Cola Company Compensation and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, dated effective as of January 1, 2009 (the "Compensation Plan"), pursuant to which in 2011 he will be entitled to annual compensation of $175,000, of which up to $50,000 may be paid in quarterly installments in cash or deferred share units at Mr. Greenberg's discretion and the remaining $125,000 will be paid in deferred share units. The Compensation Plan is described further on pages 35 to 39 of the Company's proxy statement for its 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareowners filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 5, 2010.
 
A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of Mr. Greenberg to the Board is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Related Person Transaction Disclosure
 
The related person transaction disclosure presented below is for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2010. On October 2, 2010, the Company completed its acquisition (the "CCE Acquisition") of the North American operations of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("CCE").  In connection with the CCE Acquisition, CCE was renamed Coca-Cola Refreshments USA, Inc. ("CCR").  The disclosure includes amounts related to CCR for the period of October 2 to December 31, 2010.  Separate disclosure related to CCE is provided for the period of January 1 to October 1, 2010.
 
Mr. Greenberg is President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of ACE Limited (ACE Limited, together with its subsidiaries, "ACE").  ACE has provided insurance related products and services to the Company since 1986. ACE provides traditional insurance coverage where the Company seeks to transfer risk and fronting services where the Company seeks to retain risk. The Company renews its insurance coverage on an annual basis.  For the one-year period of November 1, 2009 to November 1, 2010, ACE was the primary insurer in the Company's Directors' and Officers' ("D&O") liability tower and the fiduciary liability tower and the only insurer for employed lawyers liability.  During this period, it also provided insurance coverage, but was not considered the primary insurer, for property insurance covering the Company's plants and buildings. For the one-year period of November 1, 2010 to November 1, 2011, the Company changed its insurance coverage and ACE is no longer the primary insurer in the D&O liability tower, although it provides D&O liability coverage on an excess basis. Also, ACE no longer provides employed lawyers liability insurance but continues to provide the Company with primary coverage for fiduciary liability.  Since October 2, 2010, CCR is covered under the Company's insurance policies. ACE also provides fronting services to the Company by
 
issuing contracts for U.S. and international general and product liability insurance, U.S. workers' compensation insurance and global property insurance on behalf of the Company. In 2010, the Company paid ACE approximately $3.0 million for insurance premiums and approximately $937,000 in fronting fees for property and casualty insurance premiums. From January 1 to October 1, 2010, CCE paid ACE approximately $576,000 for insurance premiums and other services in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the terms of the Company's insurance coverage and fronting arrangements with ACE are fair and reasonable and as favorable to the Company as those that could have been obtained from unrelated third parties.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
99.1
                          
Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company, dated February 17, 2011, regarding Evan G. Greenberg
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
ATLANTA, Feb. 17, 2011
 The Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company today elected Evan G. Greenberg as a Director of the Company, effective immediately.  Mr. Greenberg, 56, is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, a global insurance and reinsurance company.
 
As part of his election, Mr. Greenberg was appointed to the Company's Audit Committee.
 
Over the course of almost 35 years in the insurance industry, Mr. Greenberg has held various underwriting and management positions and gained significant insight in the global property, casualty and life insurance sectors.
 
Prior to joining ACE, Mr. Greenberg spent 25 years at American International Group, where he served as President and Chief Operating Officer from 1997 to 2000.  Before that, he held a variety of senior management positions, including President and Chief Executive Officer of AIU, AIG's Foreign General Insurance Organization, and Chief Executive Officer of AIG Far East, based in Japan.
 
"Evan brings significant financial expertise and a wealth of experience managing global businesses to our Board," said Muhtar Kent, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Coca-Cola Company.  "We are delighted to welcome him to The Coca-Cola Company."
 
Mr. Greenberg is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and serves on the board of a number of organizations including the National Committee on United States-China Relations and the U.S.-China Business Council.  He is Vice Chairman of the US-ASEAN Business Council and Chairman of the P&C CEO Roundtable.  Mr. Greenberg is also a member of the Business Roundtable, a trustee of the Eisenhower Fellowships and an overseer of the International Rescue Committee.
 
 
About The Coca-Cola Company
 
The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 500 sparkling and still brands. Led by Coca-Cola, the world's most valuable brand, the Company's portfolio features 14 billion dollar brands including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, Powerade, Minute Maid, Simply and Georgia. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, juices and juice drinks and ready-to-drink teas and coffees. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy the Company's beverages at a rate of 1.7 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint, support active, healthy living, create a safe, inclusive work environment for our associates, and enhance th e economic development of the communities where we operate. For more information about our Company, please visit our website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com.
 


