FILE:KO/KO-8K-20120221164320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 16, 2012
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (404) 676-2121
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 16, 2012, the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company (the Company) increased the size of the Board to 17 members and elected Robert A. Kotick as a Director of the Company. Mr. Kotick was appointed to the Management Development Committee, effective immediately following his election.
Mr. Kotick will participate in The Coca-Cola Company Compensation and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, dated effective January 1, 2009 (the Compensation Plan), pursuant to which in 2012 he will be entitled to annual compensation of $175,000, of which up to $50,000 may be paid in quarterly installments in cash or deferred share units at Mr. Kotick's discretion and the remaining $125,000 will be paid in deferred share units. The Compensation Plan is described further starting on page 42 of the Company's proxy statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareowners filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2011. There are no transactions in which Mr. Kotick has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of Mr. Kotick to the Board is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3

Exhibit 99.1
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
ELECTS ROBERT A. KOTICK AS DIRECTOR
ATLANTA, Feb. 16, 2012
-
The Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company today elected Robert Bobby Kotick as a Director of the Company, effective immediately.
Kotick, 48, is President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Activision Blizzard, Inc., a global interactive entertainment software leader and the world's largest independent video game publisher. An entrepreneur in the interactive industry, Kotick purchased a stake in Activision in 1990, became CEO in 1991 and grew the company to its industry-leading position.
From 2003 to 2008, Kotick also served as a Director of Yahoo!, Inc., one of the most visited internet destinations worldwide. Kotick began his career in 1983 creating software for the Apple II.
Bobby brings an entrepreneurial mindset and a high level of financial literacy and digital knowledge to our Company, said Muhtar Kent, Chairman and CEO of The Coca-Cola Company. His global brand expertise and insight will be invaluable as we continue to grow our business and invest in enhancing our digital engagement with consumers and customers around the world.
As part of his election, Kotick was appointed to the Company's Committee on Management Development Committee.
Kotick is a member of the board of trustees for The Center for Early Education and The Harvard Westlake School, both located in Los Angeles. He also serves as Chairman of the Committee of Trustees at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and is the founder of the Call of Duty Endowment, which is dedicated to securing jobs for unemployed veterans.
About The Coca-Cola Company
The Coca-Cola Company
(NYSE: KO) is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 500 sparkling and still brands. Led by Coca-Cola, the world's most valuable brand, our Company's portfolio features 15 billion dollar brands including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, Powerade, Minute Maid, Simply, Georgia and Del Valle. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, ready-to-drink coffees, and juices and juice drinks. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy our beverages at a rate of 1.7 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint, support active, healthy living, create a safe, inclusive work environment for our associates, and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. Together with our bottling partners, we rank among the world's top 10 private employers with more than 700,000 system employees. For more information, please visit
www.thecoca-colacompany.com
or follow us on Twitter at
twitter.com/CocaColaCo
.
###


