FILE:KO/KO-8K-20120823135910.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 23, 2012
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(404) 676-2121
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 7.01.
    
Regulation FD Disclosure.
As previously announced, the shareowners of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Company's certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock from 5.6 billion to 11.2 billion and effect a two-for-one stock split of the common stock. The record date for the stock split was July 27, 2012, and the additional shares were distributed on August 10, 2012. Each shareowner of record on the close of business on the record date received one additional share of common stock for each share held.
The Company will make available on its website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com, in the "Investors" section, supplemental financial information for each 2011 and 2012 quarterly period and for full year 2011 to illustrate how certain previously reported share and per share amounts were impacted as a result of the stock split. The supplemental financial information that will be posted on the website is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.
    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
    
Exhibits
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
4

Exhibit 99.1
Supplemental Financial Information of The Coca-Cola Company
As previously announced, the shareowners of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Company's certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock from 5.6 billion to 11.2 billion and effect a two-for-one stock split of the common stock. The record date for the stock split was July 27, 2012, and the additional shares were distributed on August 10, 2012. Each shareowner of record on the close of business on the record date received one additional share of common stock for each share held.
The following table sets forth, as supplemental information, adjusted share and per share data that reflects the impact of the Company's stock split (in millions except per share data):
Note: Certain rows may not add due to rounding. Certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded dollar amounts provided.
The following table sets forth, as supplemental information, adjusted per share data after considering items impacting comparability (non-GAAP) that reflects the impact of the Company's stock split (in millions except per share data):
Note: Certain rows may not add due to rounding. Certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded dollar amounts provided.
1
The following tables set forth the items considered in the calculation of the adjusted per share data after considering items impacting comparability (non-GAAP) set forth in the table above as well as a reconciliation of adjusted per share data after considering items impacting comparability (non-GAAP) to the reported (GAAP) adjusted per share data (in millions except per share data):
Note: Certain rows may not add due to rounding. Certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded dollar amounts provided.
Note: Certain rows may not add due to rounding. Certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded dollar amounts provided.
2


