FILE:KO/KO-8K-20120710162222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
A Special Meeting of Shareowners of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") was held on Tuesday, July 10, 2012, in Atlanta, Georgia.
 
The sole matter submitted to a vote of the shareowners at the meeting was a proposal to amend Article FOURTH of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to increase the authorized Common Stock of the Company from 5,600,000,000 shares, par value $.25 per share, to 11,200,000,000 shares, par value $.25 per share, and to effect a two-for-one stock split of the issued Common Stock of the Company.  The voting results were as follows:
 
 
A copy of the Company's press release regarding the two-for-one stock split is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
99.1         Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company, dated July 10, 2012, regarding shareowner approval of two-for-one stock split.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
ATLANTA, July 10, 2012
 The shareowners of The Coca-Cola Company today approved a two-for-one stock split and an increase from 5.6 billion to 11.2 billion in the number of authorized shares of the Company's common stock.
 
The record date for the stock split is expected to be July 27, 2012, with new shares expected to be distributed on or about Aug. 10, 2012.  Each shareowner of record on the close of business on the record date will receive one additional share of common stock for each share held.
 
The split is the 11
th
 in the stock's 92-year history and the first in 16 years.  Answers to frequently asked questions about the stock split can be found on the Investors section of the Company's website, www.thecoca-colacompany.com/investors.
 
The Coca-Cola Company's common stock began trading in 1919.  Since its original listing, the stock has previously split 10 times  first in 1927 and most recently in 1996.  With all dividends reinvested annually, one share of common stock purchased for $40 in 1919 would be worth approximately $10.3 million today.
 
The Coca-Cola Company
 
The Coca-Cola Company (NYSE: KO) is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 500 sparkling and still brands. Led by Coca-Cola, the world's most valuable brand, our Company's portfolio features 15 billion-dollar brands including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, Powerade, Minute Maid, Simply, Georgia and Del Valle. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, ready-to-drink coffees, and juices and juice drinks. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries
 
 
enjoy our beverages at a rate of 1.8 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint, support active, healthy living, create a safe, inclusive work environment for our associates, and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. Together with our bottling partners, we rank among the world's top 10 private employers with more than 700,000 system employees. For more information, please visit www.thecoca-colacompany.com or follow us on Twitter at twitter.com/CocaColaCo.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute forward-looking statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, project, will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from The Coca-Cola Company's historical experience and our present expectations or projections. These risks include, but are not limited to, obesity and other health concerns; scarcity and quality of water; changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment, including changes in consumer preferences based on health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns, shifting consumer tastes and needs, changes in lifestyles and competitive product and pricing pressures; risks related to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition, as well as the integration, of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.'s former North America business; continuing uncertainty in the credit and equity market conditions; increased competition; our ability to expand our operations in developing and emerging markets; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; increases in interest rates; our ability to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners; the financial condition of our bottling partners; increases in income tax rates or changes in income tax laws; increases in indirect taxes or new indirect taxes; our ability and the ability of our bottling partners to maintain good labor relations, including the ability to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms and avoid strikes, work stoppages or labor unrest; increase in the cost, disruption of supply or shortage of energy; increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of ingredients or packaging materials; changes in laws and regulations relating to beverage containers and packaging, including container deposit, recycling, eco-tax and/or product stewardship laws or regulations; adoption of significant additional labeling or warning requirements; unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States or other major markets; unfavorable economic and political conditions in international markets, including civil unrest and product boycotts; litigation uncertainties; adverse weather conditions; our ability to maintain brand image and corporate reputation as well as other product issues such as product recalls; changes in, or our failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations; changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements; our ability to achieve overall long-term goals; our ability to protect our information technology infrastructure; additional impairment charges; our ability to successfully manage Company-owned or controlled bottling operations; the impact of climate change on our business; global or regional catastrophic events; and other risks discussed in our Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which filings are available from the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The Coca-Cola Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
The Coca-Cola Company Stock Split History.


