FILE:KO/KO-8K-20120914110105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02. 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
As previously reported, effective January 1, 2013, The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") will organize around three operating businesses, Coca-Cola Americas, Coca-Cola International and Bottling Investments Group, or BIG (the "New Global Operating Structure"). Steven A. Cahillane, currently President and Chief Executive Officer of Coca-Cola Refreshments, or CCR, will be appointed President of Coca-Cola Americas, Ahmet Bozer, currently President of the Eurasia & Africa Group, will be appointed President of Coca-Cola International, and Irial Finan will continue as President of BIG.
 
On September 11, 2012, the Company provided letters to each of Messrs. Cahillane and Bozer (the "Letters") to confirm their new positions and set forth the primary compensation elements that will be effective commencing January 1, 2013.  Pursuant to the Letters, base salary determinations for the new positions will be made during the normal rewards cycle in February 2013, with any increase to be effective April 1, 2013. The executives will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's Performance Incentive Plan and Long-Term Incentive program and will continue to be subject to the Company's share ownership guidelines.  Details regarding base salary determinations, the Performance Incentive Plan and the Long-Term Incentive program are included in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of the Company's definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareowners filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2012.  The foregoing description of the Letters for Messrs. Cahillane and Bozer is qualified in its entirety by the applicable Letter, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with the New Global Operating Structure, effective January 1, 2013, Jos Octavio "Pacho" Reyes will step down as President of the Latin America Group and be appointed Vice Chairman, The Coca-Cola Export Corporation.  Mr. Reyes plans to retire from the Company in March 2014.  It is contemplated that following his retirement, Mr. Reyes will enter into a consulting arrangement pursuant to which Mr. Reyes will continue to provide services to the Company.  The consulting arrangement is expected to provide Mr. Reyes fees of $65,000 per month, plus expenses, and is expected to have a term of ten months.  In accordance with Mexican law, Mr. Reyes and Servicios Integrados de Administracin y Alta Gerencia, S de R.L. de C.V. ("SIAAG"), the Company subsidiary that employs Mr. Reyes, entered into a separation letter and a Modification of Conditions, Termination Agreement and Release each dated as of September 13, 2012 (the "Reyes Agreements"), which set forth the employment arrangements that will be applicable to Mr. Reyes through his retirement.  Pursuant to the Reyes Agreements, Mr. Reyes will remain entitled to receive and be paid all compensation, vacation, and benefits otherwise arising and accruing or available through and including his retirement date, which include without limitation, continued participation in the Performance Incentive Plan and the Long-Term Incentive program.  Upon his retirement, Mr. Reyes will be entitled to receive the accrued and vested retirement and other benefits pursuant to the terms of the applicable Company plans and as otherwise required by Mexican law. The foregoing description of the Reyes Agreements is qualified in its entirety by the applicable agreement, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.3 and 10.4, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events
 
On September 12, 2012, the Company announced a number of leadership appointments to support the Company's New Global Operating Structure, which will be effective January 1, 2013.  At that time, group leadership of the Company's three operating businesses will be as follows:
COCA-COLA AMERICAS
: Led by Mr. Cahillane, Coca-Cola Americas will include the Company's Latin America and North America Groups.
 
North America Group
:  J. Alexander "Sandy" Douglas Jr., currently President of Coca-Cola North America, will be appointed Global Chief Customer Officer, reporting to Muhtar Kent. Mr. Douglas will leverage his strong customer relationships around the world to ensure the Company is known globally as an organization that delivers world-class value and service to its customers.  He will also continue to lead the North America franchise strategy.
 
Brian Kelley, currently Chief Product Supply Officer for Coca-Cola Refreshments, will be appointed President and Chief Operating Officer, Coca-Cola Refreshments, reporting to Mr. Cahillane.  He will have responsibility for all foodservice, regional sales, product supply, customer care, customer retail and commercial operations in the U.S.  Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada will also report to Mr. Kelley.
 
Latin America Group
: Brian Smith, currently President of the Mexico Business Unit, will be appointed President of the Latin America Group, succeeding Mr. Reyes and reporting to Mr. Cahillane.
 
COCA-COLA INTERNATIONAL
: Led by Mr. Bozer, Coca-Cola International will include the Company's Eurasia & Africa, Europe and Pacific Groups.
 
Eurasia & Africa Group
: Nathan Kalumbu, currently President of the Central, East and West Business Unit, will be named President, Eurasia & Africa Group, succeeding Mr. Bozer.
 
Europe Group
: Dominique Reiniche, currently President of the Europe Group, will be appointed Chairman, Europe Group, reporting to Mr. Kent. She will lead the Company's European sustainability and stakeholder agenda, enhancing engagement across the continent on key issues with governments, civil society and industry, with a particular focus on EU institutions and broader industry bodies.
 
James Quincey, currently President of the Northwest Europe and Nordics Business Unit, will be appointed President, Europe Group, succeeding Ms. Reiniche and reporting to Mr. Bozer.
 
Pacific Group
: The Company's Pacific Group will continue to be led by Glenn Jordan, President, Pacific Group, who will report to Mr. Bozer.
 
BOTTLING INVESTMENTS GROUP (BIG)
: Mr. Finan will continue as President of BIG.
 
Additional details regarding the New Global Operating Structure are included in the Company's press release dated September 12, 2012.  A copy of the Company's press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On September 11, 2012, the Company provided letters to each of Messrs. Smith, Douglas, Kelley, Kalumbu, and Quincey (the "Group Letters") to confirm their new positions and set forth the primary compensation elements that will be effective commencing January 1, 2013.  Pursuant to the Group Letters, base salary determinations for the new positions will be made during the normal rewards cycle in February 2013, with any increase to be effective April 1, 2013. The executives will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's Performance Incentive Plan and Long-Term Incentive program and will continue to be subject to the Company's share ownership guidelines.  Details regarding base salary determinations, the Performance Incentive Plan and the Long-Term Incentive program are included in the Compensation Discussion and
Analysis section of the Company's definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareowners filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2012.  The foregoing description of the Group Letters for Messrs. Smith, Douglas, Kelley, Kalumbu, and Quincey is qualified in its entirety by the applicable Group Letter, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.5 through 10.9, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
10.1
                          
Letter, dated September 11, 2012, from the Company to Steven A. Cahillane.
10.2
                          
Letter, dated September 11, 2012, from the Company to Ahmet Bozer.
10.3
                          
Letter, dated September 13, 2012, between Servicios Integrados de Administracin y Alta Gerencia, S de R.L. de C.V. and Jos Octavio Reyes.
10.4
                          
Modification of Conditions, Termination Agreement and Release, dated September 13, 2012, between Servicios Integrados de Administracin y Alta Gerencia, S de R.L. de C.V. and Jos Octavio Reyes.
10.5
                          
Letter, dated September 11, 2012, from the Company to Brian Smith.
10.6
                          
Letter, dated September 11, 2012, from the Company to J. Alexander Douglas Jr.
10.7
                          
Letter, dated September 11, 2012, from the Company to Brian Kelley.
10.8
                          
Letter, dated September 11, 2012, from the Company to Nathan Kalumbu.
10.9
                          
Letter, dated September 11, 2012, from the Company to James Quincey.
99.1
                          
Press Release of The Coca-Cola Company, dated September 12, 2012, regarding the new operating structure and senior leadership appointments.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
 
Mr. Steve Cahillane
Atlanta, Georgia
 
Dear Steve,
 
We are delighted to confirm your new position as President, Coca-Cola Americas, job grade 23, with an effective date of January 1, 2013.  You will report to me.  The information contained in this letter provides details of your new position.
 
                 
Your principal place of assignment will be Atlanta, Georgia.
 
                 
Your annual base salary for your new position will be determined during the normal rewards cycle in February 2013, with any increase to be effective April 1, 2013.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the annual Performance Incentive Plan.  Your target annual incentive for 2013 will be 150% of gross annual salary.
 
                 
Your 2012 annual incentive will be determined at your current annual incentive target. The actual amount of an incentive award may vary and is based on individual performance and the financial performance of the Company. The plan may be modified from time to time.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in The Coca-Cola Company's Long-Term Incentive program.  Awards are made at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors based upon recommendations by Senior Management.  You will be eligible to receive equity awards within guidelines for the job grade assigned to your position and based upon your personal performance, Company performance, and leadership potential to add value to the Company in the future.  Currently, the award is delivered 60% stock options and 40% Performance Share Units. As a discretionary program, the award timing, frequency, size and distribution between stock options and PSUs are variable.
 
                 
You are expected to continue to maintain share ownership pursuant to the Company's share ownership guidelines at a level equal to 4 times your base salary.
 
 
You will be asked to provide information in December each year on your progress toward your ownership goal, and that information will be reviewed with the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors the following February
 
                 
You will continue to
b
e eligible for the Company's Financial Planning and Counseling program which provides reimbursement of certain financial planning and counseling services, up to $10,000 annually, subject to taxes and withholding.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible for the Emory Executive Health benefit which includes a comprehensive physical exam and one-on-one medical and lifestyle management consultation.
 
I feel certain that you will find challenge, satisfaction and opportunity in this new role and as we continue our journey toward the 2020 Vision.  Should you have any questions about the foregoing, please call Ceree Eberly at 404-676-3336.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
Mr. Ahmet Bozer
Istanbul, Turkey
 
Dear Ahmet,
 
We are delighted to confirm your new position as President, Coca-Cola International, job grade 23, with an effective date of January 1, 2013.  You will report to me.  The information contained in this letter provides details of your new position.
 
                 
Your principal place of assignment will be Atlanta, Georgia.
 
                 
Your annual base salary for your new position will be determined during the normal rewards cycle in February 2013, with any increase to be effective April 1, 2013.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the annual Performance Incentive Plan.  Your target annual incentive for 2013 will be 150% of gross annual salary.
 
                 
Your 2012 annual incentive will be determined at your current annual incentive target. The actual amount of an incentive award may vary and is based on individual performance and the financial performance of the Company. The plan may be modified from time to time.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in The Coca-Cola Company's Long-Term Incentive program.  Awards are made at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors based upon recommendations by Senior Management.  You will be eligible to receive equity awards within guidelines for the job grade assigned to your position and based upon your personal performance, Company performance, and leadership potential to add value to the Company in the future.  Currently, the award is delivered 60% stock options and 40% Performance Share Units. As a discretionary program, the award timing, frequency, size and distribution between stock options and PSUs are variable.
 
 
                 
You are expected to continue to maintain share ownership pursuant to the Company's share ownership guidelines at a level equal to 4 times your base salary.  You will be asked to provide information in December each year on your progress toward your ownership goal, and that information will be reviewed with the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors the following February.
 
                 
You will continue to
b
e eligible for the Company's Financial Planning and Counseling program which provides reimbursement of certain financial planning and counseling services, up to $10,000 annually, subject to taxes and withholding.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible for the Emory Executive Health benefit which includes a comprehensive physical exam and one-on-one medical and lifestyle management consultation.
 
I feel certain that you will find challenge, satisfaction and opportunity in this new role and as we continue our journey toward the 2020 Vision.  Should you have any questions about the foregoing, please call Ceree Eberly at 404-676-3336.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
September 13, 2012
 
 
Mr. Jose Octavio Reyes
Servicios Integrados de Administracin y
Alta Gerencia
, S de R.L. de C.V.
Mexico City, Mexico
 
Dear Pacho,
 
This letter outlines the terms of your voluntary separation and retirement agreement with SERVICIOS INTEGRADOS DE ADMINISTRACIN Y ALTA GERENCIA, S. DE R.L. DE C.V. (the Company).  All applicable elements of your separation and retirement package would be paid under the terms of the relevant policies and plans of the Company and The Coca-Cola Company.
 
1.
              
Effective December 31, 2012, you and the Company have mutually agreed that you will step down from your current position of President, Latin America Group.  Thereafter, through March 31, 2014, your new position will be as Vice Chairman, The Coca-Cola Export Corporation.  In this role, you will be responsible for implementing key 2020 Vision initiatives and helping ensure seamless leadership transition around the world.  You will remain a member of the Company's Operating Committee.
 
2.
              
You and the Company have mutually agreed that your employment with the Company will terminate on March 31, 2014 (the "Retirement Date"). You shall remain entitled to receive and be paid all compensation, vacation, and benefits otherwise arising and accruing or available to you through and including the Retirement Date.
 
3.
              
You will receive the payment of your fringe benefits and seniority bonus in accordance with Mexican Law.  This amount will be paid in a lump sum amount on your retirement date.
 
4.
              
You will receive an annual incentive award for 2012.  The actual payment amount is contingent upon actual Company performance and your performance.  Any award will be paid on or about March 15, 2013.
 
5.
              
You will receive an annual incentive award for 2013.  The actual payment amount is contingent upon actual Company performance and your performance.  Any award will be paid on or about March 15, 2014.
 
6.
              
You will receive an annual incentive award for 2014 prorated for three months.  The actual payment amount is contingent upon actual Company performance and your performance.  Any award will be paid on or about March 15, 2015.
 
7.
              
You will be eligible for an equity grant in 2013.  Any award will be made at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company based upon recommendations by Senior Management.
 
8.
              
You will not be eligible for an equity grant in 2014.
 
9.
              
Pursuant to the terms of The Coca-Cola Company's long term incentive programs and plans and your related Restricted Stock Agreements, your rights and benefits under each of the plans are summarized below.
 
2010-2012 Plan
 
                 
Upon certification of results at the Compensation Committee meeting in February 2013, the number of shares earned will be determined and issued to you prior to your retirement.
 
2011-2013 Plan
 
                 
Upon certification of results at the Compensation Committee meeting in February 2014, the number of shares earned will be determined and issued to you within 90 days of said Compensation Committee meeting.
 
2012-2014 Plan
 
                 
Upon certification of results at the Compensation Committee meeting in February 2015, the number of shares earned will be determined and issued to you within 90 days of said Compensation Committee meeting.
2013-2015 Plan (to be granted in 2013)
 
                 
Upon certification of results at the Compensation Committee meeting in February 2016, the number of shares earned will be determined and issued to you within 90 days of said Compensation Committee meeting.
 
10.
        
All options which you previously have received will be exercisable according to the terms of the Company's applicable stock option plans and programs as well as your related Stock Option Grant Agreements.  When you exercise your vested stock options, you will be personally liable for paying any taxes owed on such exercises.
 
11.
        
Your retirement benefits will consist of those benefits from the International Thrift Plan, the Overseas Retirement Plan (the "ORP"), the Mexico Plan Anterior and all other Company plans in which you participate which benefits are vested as of your Retirement Date.  You are currently (and as of the Retirement Date shall remain) fully vested under the International Thrift Plan and the ORP and will receive a lump sum distribution of your International Thrift Plan account and the value of any benefit you earned under the ORP according to the terms of such applicable plans, which amounts will be paid in a lump sum six months following your Retirement Date. You are also vested in the Mexico Plan Anterior, and will receive your distribution in the form of a life annuity with 10 years guaranteed, or a lump sum.
 
12.
        
You will be eligible for the Mexican social medical program.  You will also have the option to continue in the current Company coverage through an individual policy at the group rate.  Please note that the cost of this coverage will be paid by you.
 
13.
        
You will continue to be reimbursed up to USD$10,000 per year in financial planning and related expenses incurred by you annually up through your Retirement Date.
 
14.
        
The terms and conditions in this letter are further conditioned upon your signing and adhering to the attached Full and Complete Release and Agreement on Competition, Trade Secrets and Confidentiality.
Pacho, thank you for the time you have devoted to the Company.  I look forward to continue working together for Vision 2020.  Please feel free to give me a call if you have any questions or would like more information regarding the above.

 
Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
Mr. Brian Smith
Mexico City, Mexico
 
Dear Brian,
 
We are delighted to confirm your new position as President, Latin America Group, job grade 21, with an effective date of January 1, 2013.  You will report to me.  The information contained in this letter provides details of your new position.
 
                 
Your principal place of assignment will be Mexico City, Mexico.  Your employer in Mexico will be Servicios Integrados de Administracin y Alta Gerencia, S. de R.L. de C.V.
 
                 
Your annual base salary for your new position will be determined during the normal rewards cycle in February 2013, with any increase to be effective April 1, 2013.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the annual Performance Incentive Plan.  Your target annual incentive for 2013 will be 100% of gross annual salary.
 
                 
Your 2012 annual incentive will be determined at your current annual incentive target. The actual amount of an incentive award may vary and is based on individual performance and the financial performance of the Company. The plan may be modified from time to time.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in The Coca-Cola Company's Long-Term Incentive program.  Awards are made at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors based upon recommendations by Senior Management.  You will be eligible to receive equity awards within guidelines for the job grade assigned to your position and based upon your personal performance, Company performance, and leadership potential to add value to the Company in the future.  Currently, the award is delivered 60% stock options and 40% Performance Share Units. As a discretionary program, the award timing, frequency, size and distribution between stock options and PSUs are variable.
 
                 
You are expected to maintain share ownership pursuant to the Company's share ownership guidelines at a level equal to 4 times your base salary.  Because this represents an increase from your prior target level, you will have an additional 2 years, or until December 31, 2014, to meet your requirement.  You will be asked to
 
provide information in December each year on your progress toward your ownership goal, and that information will be reviewed with the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors the following February.
 
                 
You will continue to
b
e eligible for the Company's Financial Planning and Counseling program which provides reimbursement of certain financial planning and counseling services, up to $10,000 annually, subject to taxes and withholding.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible for the Emory Executive Health benefit which includes a comprehensive physical exam and one-on-one medical and lifestyle management consultation.
 
                 
As a mobile assignee, you will participate in the Global Mobility Program and be provided the standard benefits of the Global Mobility Policy.
 
I feel certain that you will find challenge, satisfaction and opportunity in this new role and as we continue our journey toward the 2020 Vision.  Should you have any questions about the foregoing, please call Ceree Eberly at 404-676-3336.
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
Mr. J.A.M. Douglas
Atlanta, Georgia
 
Dear Sandy,
 
We are delighted to confirm your new position as Global Chief Customer Officer, job grade 22, with an effective date of January 1, 2013.  You will report to me.  The information contained in this letter provides details of your new position.
 
                 
Your principal place of assignment will be Atlanta, Georgia.
 
                 
Your annual base salary for your new position will be determined during the normal rewards cycle in February 2013, with any increase to be effective April 1, 2013.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the annual Performance Incentive Plan.  Your target annual incentive for 2013 will be125% of gross annual salary.
 
                 
Your 2012 annual incentive will be determined at your current annual incentive target. The actual amount of an incentive award may vary and is based on individual performance and the financial performance of the Company. The plan may be modified from time to time.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in The Coca-Cola Company's Long-Term Incentive program.  Awards are made at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors based upon recommendations by Senior Management.  You will be eligible to receive equity awards within guidelines for the job grade assigned to your position and based upon your personal performance, Company performance, and leadership potential to add value to the Company in the future.  Currently, the award is delivered 60% stock options and 40% Performance Share Units. As a discretionary program, the award timing, frequency, size and distribution between stock options and PSUs are variable.
 
                 
You are expected to continue to maintain share ownership pursuant to the Company's share ownership guidelines at a level equal to 4 times your base salary.
 
 
You will be asked to provide information in December each year on your progress toward your ownership goal, and that information will be reviewed with the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors the following February.
 
                 
You will continue to
b
e eligible for the Company's Financial Planning and Counseling program which provides reimbursement of certain financial planning and counseling services, up to $10,000 annually, subject to taxes and withholding.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible for the Emory Executive Health benefit which includes a comprehensive physical exam and one-on-one medical and lifestyle management consultation.
 
I feel certain that you will find challenge, satisfaction and opportunity in this new role and as we continue our journey toward the 2020 Vision.  Should you have any questions about the foregoing, please call Ceree Eberly at 404-676-3336.
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
Mr. Brian Kelley
Atlanta, Georgia
 
Dear Brian,
 
We are delighted to confirm your new position as President & Chief Operating Officer, Coca-Cola Refreshments USA, Inc., job grade 21, with an effective date of January 1, 2013.  You will report to me.  The information contained in this letter provides details of your new position.
 
                 
Your principal place of assignment will be Atlanta, Georgia.
 
                 
Your annual base salary for your new position will be determined during the normal rewards cycle in February 2013, with any increase to be effective April 1, 2013.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the annual Performance Incentive Plan.  Your target annual incentive for 2013 will be 100% of gross annual salary.
 
                 
Your 2012 annual incentive will be determined at your current annual incentive target. The actual amount of an incentive award may vary and is based on individual performance and the financial performance of the Company. The plan may be modified from time to time.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in The Coca-Cola Company's Long-Term Incentive program.  Awards are made at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors based upon recommendations by Senior Management.  You will be eligible to receive equity awards within guidelines for the job grade assigned to your position and based upon your personal performance, Company performance, and leadership potential to add value to the Company in the future.  Currently, the award is delivered 60% stock options and 40% Performance Share Units. As a discretionary program, the award timing, frequency, size and distribution between stock options and PSUs are variable.
 
                 
You will be expected to maintain share ownership pursuant to the Company's share ownership guidelines at a level equal to 4 times your base salary.  Because this represents an increase from your prior target level, you will have an additional 2 years, or until December 31, 2014, to meet your requirement.  You will be asked to provide information in December each year on your progress toward your ownership
 
goal, and that information will be reviewed with the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors the following February.
 
                 
You will continue to
b
e eligible for the Company's Financial Planning and Counseling program which provides reimbursement of certain financial planning and counseling services, up to $10,000 annually, subject to taxes and withholding.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible for the Emory Executive Health benefit which includes a comprehensive physical exam and one-on-one medical and lifestyle management consultation.
 
I feel certain that you will find challenge, satisfaction and opportunity in this new role and as we continue our journey toward the 2020 Vision.  Should you have any questions about the foregoing, please call Ceree Eberly at 404-676-3336.
 

Exhibit 10.8
 
 
 
September 11, 2012
 
Mr. Nathan Kalumbu
Nairobi, Kenya
 
Dear Nathan,
 
We are delighted to confirm your new position as President, Eurasia & Africa Group, job grade 21, with an effective date of January 1, 2013.  You will report to me.  The information contained in this letter provides details of your new position.
 
                 
Your principal place of assignment will be Istanbul, Turkey.  Your employer in Turkey will be Coca-Cola Mesrubat Pazarlama Danismanlik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S.
 
                 
Your annual base salary for your new position will be determined during the normal rewards cycle in February 2013, with any increase to be effective April 1, 2013.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the annual Performance Incentive Plan.  Your target annual incentive for 2013 will be 100% of gross annual salary.
 
                 
Your 2012 annual incentive will be determined at your current annual incentive target. The actual amount of an incentive award may vary and is based on individual performance and the financial performance of the Company. The plan may be modified from time to time.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in The Coca-Cola Company's Long-Term Incentive program.  Awards are made at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors based upon recommendations by Senior Management.  You will be eligible to receive equity awards within guidelines for the job grade assigned to your position and based upon your personal performance, Company performance, and leadership potential to add value to the Company in the future.  Currently, the award is delivered 60% stock options and 40% Performance Share Units. As a discretionary program, the award timing, frequency, size and distribution between stock options and PSUs are variable.
 
 
                 
You are expected to maintain share ownership pursuant to the Company's share ownership guidelines at a level equal to 4 times your base salary.  Because this represents an increase from your prior target level, you will have an additional 2 years, or until December 31, 2016, to meet your requirement.  You will be asked to provide information in December each year on your progress toward your ownership goal, and that information will be reviewed with the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors the following February.
 
                 
You will continue to
b
e eligible for the Company's Financial Planning and Counseling program which provides reimbursement of certain financial planning and counseling services, up to $10,000 annually, subject to taxes and withholding.
 
                 
You are eligible for the Emory Executive Health benefit which includes a comprehensive physical exam and one-on-one medical and lifestyle management consultation.
 
                 
As a mobile assignee, you will participate in the Global Mobility Program and be provided the standard benefits of the Global Mobility Policy.
 
I feel certain that you will find challenge, satisfaction and opportunity in this new role and as we continue our journey toward the 2020 Vision.  Should you have any questions about the foregoing, please call Ceree Eberly at 404-676-3336.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.9
 
 
 
September 11, 2012
 
Mr. James Quincey
London, England
 
Dear James,
 
We are delighted to confirm your new position as President, Europe Group, job grade 21, with an effective date of January 1, 2013.  You will report to me.  The information contained in this letter provides details of your new position.
 
                 
Your principal place of assignment will be London, England.  Your employer in London will be Beverage Services Limited.
 
                 
Your annual base salary for your new position will be determined during the normal rewards cycle in February 2013, with any increase to be effective April 1, 2013.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the annual Performance Incentive Plan.  Your target annual incentive for 2013 will be 100% of gross annual salary.
 
                 
Your 2012 annual incentive will be determined at your current annual incentive target. The actual amount of an incentive award may vary and is based on individual performance and the financial performance of the Company. The plan may be modified from time to time.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible to participate in The Coca-Cola Company's Long-Term Incentive program.  Awards are made at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors based upon recommendations by Senior Management.  You will be eligible to receive equity awards within guidelines for the job grade assigned to your position and based upon your personal performance, Company performance, and leadership potential to add value to the Company in the future.  Currently, the award is delivered 60% stock options and 40% Performance Share Units. As a discretionary program, the award timing, frequency, size and distribution between stock options and PSUs are variable.
 
 
                 
You are expected to maintain share ownership pursuant to the Company's share ownership guidelines at a level equal to 4 times your base salary.  Because this represents an increase from your prior target level, you will have an additional 2 years, or until December 31, 2016, to meet your requirement.  You will be asked to provide information in December each year on your progress toward your ownership goal, and that information will be reviewed with the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors the following February.
 
                 
You will continue to
b
e eligible for the Company's Financial Planning and Counseling program which provides reimbursement of certain financial planning and counseling services, up to $10,000 annually, subject to taxes and withholding.
 
                 
You will continue to be eligible for the Emory Executive Health benefit which includes a comprehensive physical exam and one-on-one medical and lifestyle management consultation.
 
I feel certain that you will find challenge, satisfaction and opportunity in this new role and as we continue our journey toward the 2020 Vision.  Should you have any questions about the foregoing, please call Ceree Eberly at 404-676-3336.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
ATLANTA, Sept. 12, 2012
 The Coca-Cola Company today announced a number of leadership appointments to support the Company's new global operating structure.  The changes complete the Company's senior leadership roster in support of the previously announced news that , and will lead the Company's three operating businesses  Coca-Cola International, Coca-Cola Americas and Bottling Investments Group (BIG), respectively.  The changes will be effective Jan. 1, 2013.
Ahmet Bozer
Steve Cahillane
Irial Finan
 
The new structure will consolidate leadership of global operations under the Bottling Investments Group and two large, but similar sized geographic regions to streamline reporting lines, intensify focus on key markets and create a structure that leverages synergies and provides flexibility to adjust the business within these geographies in the future.
 
With the changes, The Coca-Cola Company's three operating businesses reporting to Chairman and CEO will be structured as follows:
Muhtar Kent
 
COCA-COLA AMERICAS
Coca-Cola Americas will include the Company's North America and Latin America Groups, reporting to Cahillane.
 
North America Group
 
The Company will complete the formation of a unified North America structure designed to leverage world-class brand marketing capabilities with best-in-class supply chain and customer service capabilities.  The new structure will fully position the Company's U.S. and Canada business to operate as an aligned and agile unit to best serve bottlers, customers and consumers in its flagship market.
 
                 
J. Alexander "Sandy" Douglas Jr.,
currently President of Coca-Cola North America, will be appointed Global Chief Customer Officer, reporting to Kent. Douglas will leverage his strong customer relationships around the world to ensure Coca-Cola is known globally as an organization that delivers world-class value and service to its customers.  He will also continue to lead the North America franchise strategy.
 
 
                 
Katie Bayne
, currently President, North America Sparkling Beverages, will become President, North America Brands.  She will be responsible for strategic marketing, sparkling beverages, glacau, Minute Maid juices, coffee, tea and water, diversity business development and Latin Affairs in the U.S.  The Canada Business Unit, led by , will also report to Bayne.
Nicola Kettlitz
                 
Brian Kelley
, currently Chief Product Supply Officer for Coca-Cola Refreshments, will be appointed President and Chief Operating Officer, Coca-Cola Refreshments, where he will have responsibility for all foodservice, regional sales, product supply, customer care, customer retail and commercial operations in the U.S.  Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada, led by , will also report to Brian.
John Guarino
                 
Cahillane's North America direct reports will also include , Legal; , Executive Assistant; , Human Resources, , Quality & Technical; , Public Affairs & Communications; Finance; , Venturing and Emerging Brands, and; , Strategy and Business Transformation.
Ben Garren
Nancy Hunter
Carolyn Jackson
Robert Long
Sonya Soutus
Duane Still,
Deryck van Rensburg
Brian Wynne
 
Latin America Group
 
                 
Jose Octavio "Pacho" Reyes
, currently President of the Latin America Group, will be appointed Vice Chairman, The Coca-Cola Export Corporation. Reyes, who plans to retire from the Company on March 1, 2014, will report to Kent and serve as a mentor for system leaders around the globe.  He will also lead certain efforts to implement key 2020 Vision initiatives and help ensure seamless leadership transition around the world.
                 
Brian Smith
, currently President of the Mexico Business Unit, will be appointed President of the Latin America Group, succeeding Reyes and reporting to Cahillane.
                 
Business Unit Presidents reporting to Smith will include:
                 
Francisco Crespo
, currently President, South Latin, who will succeed Smith as President, Mexico;
                 
John Murphy
, currently President, Latin Center, who will replace Crespo as President, South Latin;
                 
Alfredo Rivera
, currently General Manager, Sparkling Beverages for Mexico, who will replace Murphy as President, Latin Center;
                 
Xiemar Zarazua
, who will continue as President, Brazil Business Unit.
 
COCA-COLA INTERNATIONAL
Coca-Cola International will include the Company's Eurasia & Africa, Europe and Pacific Groups, reporting to Bozer.
 
Eurasia & Africa Group
 
                 
Nathan Kalumbu
, currently President of the Central, East and West Africa (CEWA) Business Unit, will be named President, Eurasia & Africa Group, succeeding Bozer.
 
                 
Business Unit Presidents reporting to Kalumbu will include:
                 
Kelvin Balogun
, currently General Manager for Nigeria, who will succeed Kalumbu as President, CEWA;
                 
Curt Ferguson
, Middle East and North Africa;
                 
Therese Gearhart
, South Central Africa;
                 
Galya Molinas
, Turkey, Caucasus and Central Asia;
                 
Zoran Vucinic
, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus.
 
Europe Group
 
                 
Dominique Reiniche
, currently President of the Europe Group, will be appointed Chairman, Europe Group, reporting to Kent. She will lead the Company's European sustainability and stakeholder agenda, enhancing engagement across the continent on key issues with governments, civil society and industry, with a particular focus on EU institutions and broader industry bodies.
                 
James Quincey
, currently President of the Northwest Europe and Nordics (NWEN) Business Unit, will be appointed President, Europe Group, succeeding Reiniche and reporting to Bozer.
                 
Business Unit Presidents reporting to Quincey will include:
                 
Nikos Koumettis
,Central and Southern Europe;
                 
Marcos de Quinto
, Iberia;
                 
Dan Sayre
, currently President, Japan, who will succeed Quincey as President, NWEN;
                 
Hendrik Steckhan
, Germany.
 
Pacific Group
 
                 
Coca-Cola's Pacific Group will continue to be led by , President, Pacific Group, who will report to Bozer.
Glenn Jordan
                 
Business Unit Presidents reporting to Jordan will include:
                 
Manuel Arroyo
, ASEAN;
                 
Tim Brett
, currently Executive Vice President and General Manager, Japan Business Unit, who will succeed Sayre as President, Japan;
                 
David Brooks
, Greater China and Korea;
                 
Bruno Filipi
, South Pacific;
                 
Atul Singh
, India and Southwest Asia, which will move to the Pacific Group from the Eurasia & Africa Group.
 
Coca-Cola International functional leaders reporting to Ahmet Bozer will include , Finance; Strategy and Planning, and; , Human Resources.
Harry Anderson
Paul Fourie,
Stevens Sainte-Rose
 
BOTTLING INVESTMENTS GROUP
 
The Bottling Investments Group's senior operational leadership team reporting to Finan includes:
 
                 
Rick Frazier
, Commercial Product Supply;
                 
Martin Jansen
, China, Malaysia and Singapore;
                 
T. "KK" Krishnakumar
, India;
                 
Vamsi Mohan
, Vietnam and Cambodia;
                 
Paul Mulligan
, Latin America and Japan;
                 
Ulrik Nehammer
, Germany;
                 
Bill Schultz
, Philippines;
                 
Kevin Warren
, Middle East, Africa and Russia.
 
Finan's functional reports include: Finance; , Procurement;  , Public Affairs & Communications; , Executive Assistant; , Information Technology; , Legal, and; , Human Resources.
Sunil Ghatnekar,
William Hovis
Afzaal Malik
Mark Pitts
Javier Polit
Bjarne Tellmann
Nick Wall
 
In addition to Bozer, Cahillane, Finan, Douglas, Reiniche and Reyes, Kent's direct reports will include , Chief Administrative Officer; , Chief Financial Officer; , President, The McDonald's Division; , Executive Assistant to the Chairman and CEO; , Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer; and , Chief Public Affairs and Communications Officer.
Alex Cummings
Gary Fayard
Javier Goizueta
Julie Hamilton
Joseph Tripodi
Clyde Tuggle
 
"Today's announcement demonstrates the talented, diverse and experienced senior management team our Company is fortunate to have worldwide," Kent said.  "These executives are leading our operating businesses around the world at a critical time as we build the right structure for the next phase of our journey toward achieving our 2020 Vision.  We have solid momentum in our business, and we continue to lay the foundation for strong leadership and management continuity for years to come."
 
More information on the Company's previously announced plan to organize around three major operating businesses is available at: http://www.thecoca-colacompany.com/dynamic/press_center/2012/07/new-operating-structure-leadership-appointments.html.
 
Biographies of each of the leaders named are available at: http://www.thecoca-colacompany.com/ourcompany/leadership-2013.html.
 
About The Coca-Cola Company
The Coca-Cola Company (NYSE: KO) is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 500 sparkling and still brands. Led by Coca-Cola, the world's most valuable brand, our Company's portfolio features 15 billion-dollar brands including Diet Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Coca-Cola Zero, vitaminwater, Powerade, Minute Maid, Simply, Georgia and Del Valle. Globally, we are the No. 1 provider of sparkling beverages, ready-to-drink coffees, and juices and juice drinks. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, consumers in more than 200 countries enjoy our beverages at a rate of 1.8 billion servings a day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our Company is focused on initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint, support active, healthy living, create a safe, inclusive work environment for our associates, and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. Together with our bottling partners, we rank among the world's top 10 private employers with more than 700,000 system employees. For more information, please visit www.thecoca-colacompany.com or follow us on Twitter at twitter.com/CocaColaCo.
 


