FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20030806192042.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c)  Exhibits
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its Press Release, dated August 6, 2003, announcing second quarter results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: August 6, 2003

 
EXHIBIT 99
NEWS RELEASE
- Devon Energy Corporation (AMEX: DVN, TSE: NSX) today reported record high second quarter oil and gas production, net earnings and earnings per share. Net earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, were $356 million, or $1.67 per common share ($1.62 per diluted common share). In the second quarter of 2002, Devon reported a net loss of $104 million, or 68 cents per common share (68 cents per diluted common share).
OKLAHOMA CITY  August 6, 2003
     For the six months ended June 30, 2003, the company reported net earnings of $792 million, or $4.27 per common share ($4.11 per diluted common share). This compares to a net loss of $42 million, or 31 cents per common share (31 cents per diluted common share) for the six months ended June 30, 2002.
Second Quarter Production and Sales Soar with Ocean Merger
     Combined production of oil, gas and natural gas liquids reached 56 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBoe) in the second quarter of 2003. This is an all-time quarterly production record and a 13 percent increase over the 50 MMBoe the company produced a year ago. Devon's April 25, 2003, merger with Ocean Energy drove the production increase, more than offsetting the impact of property divestitures. The company divested approximately $1.4 billion of non-core oil and gas producing properties in 2002.
     Sales of oil, gas and natural gas liquids increased 67 percent over the second quarter of 2002 to a record $1.5 billion. The increase was attributable to higher production volumes and higher product prices. Devon's second quarter average realized natural gas price increased 64 percent to $4.67 per thousand cubic feet in 2003. The average price realized for second quarter oil production increased 13 percent to $25.42 per barrel in 2003. Devon's average price realized for natural gas liquids increased 31 percent to $17.88 per barrel in the second quarter of 2003.
     Marketing and midstream revenue also increased in the second quarter, primarily due to higher natural gas and natural gas liquids prices. Marketing and midstream revenue climbed 26 percent to $335 million in the most recent quarter.
 
     Total operating costs and expenses, excluding a 2002 non-cash reduction of carrying value of oil and gas properties, increased 37 percent to $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2003. The increases reflect Devon's larger size and scope of operations following the merger with Ocean Energy. Marketing and midstream costs also increased due primarily to higher natural gas prices.
     The overall increase in second quarter 2003 general and administrative (G&A) expenses includes $20 million attributable to two items. The first was $12 million due to a change in the value of investments in certain compensation plans. This expense was partially offset by a related $7 million increase in other income. The second item was the one-time, $8 million cost of closing Devon's office in The Woodlands, Texas. The company is consolidating its Houston-area operations into a single downtown location.
     Partially offsetting these expense increases was a decrease in interest expense. Interest expense decreased 12 percent to $130 million.
     Income tax expense was $233 million in the second quarter of 2003. This was a result of significantly higher pre-tax earnings in the period.
     Cash flow before balance sheet changes climbed 101 percent to $890 million in the second quarter of 2003. As a result, Devon fully funded its second quarter capital expenditure requirements, repaid over $300 million of debt and increased cash on hand by $90 million. A reconciliation of cash flow before balance sheet changes is included in this news release.
     Devon's reported net earnings include items of income and expense that are excluded by certain securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. In the second quarter of 2003, such items and their effects upon reported earnings were as follows:
In aggregate, these items increased net earnings by six cents per common share (six cents per diluted common share).
Ocean Energy Merger Pro Forma Information
     Devon's 2003 merger with Ocean Energy, Inc., created the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Ocean by
 
Devon on April 25. Therefore, Ocean's operations were included in Devon's second quarter 2003 results from April 25 through June 30, only. However, for comparative purposes, certain pro forma second quarter 2003 financial information is provided in this release. The pro forma information is presented as if Devon and Ocean had been merged on April 1, 2003.
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
     Devon will discuss its second quarter 2003 financial and operating results in a conference call webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). The webcast may be accessed from Devon's internet home page at www.devonenergy.com
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning the strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on certain assumptions made by the company based on its experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors it believes are appropriate in the circumstances. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to, inflation or lack of availability of goods and services, environmental risks, drilling risks and regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
     Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration, production and property acquisitions. Devon is the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at www.devonenergy.com.
 
Note: Pro forma information provided in the above and the following financial tables shows the pro forma effect of Devon's merger with Ocean Energy as if the companies were combined on April 1, 2003. The merger occurred on April 25, 2003.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measure
     The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has recently adopted new disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon. One provision of these disclosure requirements concerns references to Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.) Non-GAAP financial measures may be provided if the company explains the relevance of the information. The company must also reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is a Non-GAAP financial measure provided by Devon in this earnings release. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to fund the company's capital expenditures and to service its debt. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is also important to certain financial analysts who provide estimates of Devon's quarterly financial results to investors.


