FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20041001121919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 3.01. Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
     On September 27, 2004, Devon's Board of Directors authorized the transfer of the Company's common stock listing from the American Stock Exchange to the New York Stock Exchange effective October 12, 2004.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: October 1, 2004

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 Devon Energy Corporation (AMEX:DVN) announced today that its board of directors has approved plans to transfer the company's common stock listing to the New York Stock Exchange.
OKLAHOMA CITY  September 27, 2004
     Devon has been approved to file an application with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and expects trading to commence on October 12, 2004. Until then, Devon will continue trading on the American Stock Exchange (AMEX). The company expects to retain DVN as its ticker symbol.
     "We have had a long and successful affiliation with the AMEX since becoming a public company," said J. Larry Nichols, chairman and chief executive officer. "We now look forward to beginning our relationship with the NYSE."
     In separate news releases today, Devon also announced plans to divest certain oil and gas properties, to repurchase shares and to initiate a two-for-one stock split. These plans will be discussed further at Devon's annual Executive Briefing on September 28, 2004. A webcast of this half-day event will commence at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The webcast can be accessed from Devon's internet home page at www.devonenergy.com.
     Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration, production and property acquisitions. Devon is the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For additional information, visit www.devonenergy.com.


