FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20051024160424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its Press Release, dated October 24, 2005, announcing the October 18, 2005 resignation of Robert A. Mosbacher, Jr., as a member of Devon's Board of Directors, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits
          99.1 Devon Energy Corporation Press Release dated October 24, 2005.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported that Robert A. Mosbacher, Jr. has resigned from the company's board of directors. He has served on Devon's board of directors since 1999.
OKLAHOMA CITY  October 24, 2005
     Mosbacher's resignation follows his recent appointment as president and chief executive officer of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC). OPIC supports American business investment overseas and is an independent agency of the federal government.
     "We are deeply appreciative of Rob's contributions to Devon," commented J. Larry Nichols, chairman and chief executive officer. "While his presence on Devon's board will be missed, we congratulate Rob on his new position and are confident of his success."
     Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration, production and property acquisitions. Devon is the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For additional information, visit .
www.devonenergy.com


