FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20070207170221.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its news release dated February 7, 2007 announcing fourth quarter and year-end results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: February 7, 2007

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported net earnings of $2.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006. Earnings per share were $6.42 per common share ($6.34 per diluted common share). In 2005 the company earned $2.9 billion, or $6.38 per common share ($6.26 per diluted common share).
OKLAHOMA CITY  February 7, 2007
     For the quarter ended December 31, 2006, Devon reported net earnings of $582 million, or $1.31 per common share ($1.29 per diluted common share). This compares to reported earnings of $970 million or $2.18 per common share ($2.14 per diluted common share) in the fourth quarter of 2005.
     In aggregate, items securities analysts typically exclude from their published estimates reduced reported fourth-quarter 2006 net earnings by $28 million, or seven cents per diluted share. These items include non-cash charges, unrealized gains and other items discussed in detail later in this news release.
     "From almost every perspective, 2006 was an outstanding year for Devon," commented J. Larry Nichols, chairman and chief executive officer. "We invested over $5 billion in exploration and development projects adding more than 400 million barrels of proved reserves. These investments fortified our North American onshore production base and moved our major development projects toward completion in 2007. In addition, our successful production test in the Gulf of Mexico's Lower Tertiary Trend validated our long-term growth strategy and set the stage to extend Devon's growth trajectory well into the next decade."
Oil and Gas Reserves Climb to Record Levels
(detailed tables on pages 12 and 13 and non-GAAP reconciliation on page 17)
Capital and Reserve Summary
 
     Devon's estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2006, were a record 2,376 million oil-equivalent barrels (Boe). This is a 13 percent increase over year-end 2005 estimated proved reserves. Reserve additions from all sources before price revisions were 533 million Boe, more than double the company's annual oil and gas production of 214 million Boe. During 2006, Devon's reserve life index (proved reserves divided by annual production) increased from 9.4 years to 11.1 years.
     Devon added 427 million Boe through successful drilling (discoveries, extensions and performance revisions) in 2006. The company also acquired 106 million Boe in 2006, primarily through the purchase of Chief's Barnett Shale natural gas properties. Revisions, largely related to changes in year-end oil and gas prices, reduced 2006 proved reserves by 50 million Boe.
     Proved developed reserves were 1,674 million Boe at December 31, 2006, or 70 percent of proved reserves. Year-end reserves comprised 708 million barrels of crude oil, 8.4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 275 million barrels of natural gas liquids.
Active Year Yields Many Exploration and Development Achievements
     Devon drilled more than 2,400 wells in 2006, with a success rate of 98 percent. Following are highlights from the year's operations activity.
 
African Operations Designated for Divestiture
     In the fourth quarter of 2006, Devon announced its intention to divest its assets and terminate operations in Egypt. In accordance with accounting standards, Devon reclassified the assets, liabilities and results of its operations in Egypt as discontinued operations for all accounting periods presented. Therefore, Devon's annual and quarterly results from continuing operations for all periods presented in this release exclude results attributable to Egypt. Although revenues and expenses for prior periods were reclassified, there was no impact upon previously reported net earnings. Included with the financial information that follows is a table of revenues, expenses and production categories and the amounts reclassified as discontinued operations for each period presented.
     Early in the first quarter of 2007, the company announced that it plans to divest its assets and terminate operations in West Africa. Therefore, commencing with reporting for the first quarter of 2007, Devon will also reclassify the assets, liabilities and results of its operations in West Africa as discontinued operations.
Oil, Gas and Liquids Sales Remain Steady
     Sales of oil, gas and natural gas liquids increased less than one percent to $8.9 billion in the year ended December 31, 2006, compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. The positive effects of higher realized oil and natural gas liquids prices were largely offset by lower realized natural gas prices and a decline in oil and gas production.
     Combined oil, gas and natural gas liquids production averaged 587 thousand Boe per day in 2006. This was four percent less than Devon's 2005 average daily production of 613 thousand Boe per day. This decrease in 2006 production was driven by property divestitures completed during 2005, partially offset by growth in production from retained properties during 2006.
     Devon's combined production of oil, gas and natural gas liquids production increased throughout 2006. Fourth-quarter production climbed seven percent from 574 thousand Boe per day in 2005 to 613 thousand Boe per day in 2006.
     Marketing and midstream operating profit totaled $448 million in 2006, some $2 million less than Devon's marketing and midstream operating profit for 2005. Marketing and midstream revenues decreased by $100 million while related expenses decreased by $98 million.
 
Cash Flow Before Balance Sheet Changes Reaches Record Levels
     Cash flow before balance sheet changes in 2006 climbed seven percent to a record $6.1 billion. With cash flow, cash on hand and short-term borrowings under the company's commercial paper facility, Devon funded more than $8.0 billion of capital expenditures, including the $2.2 billion property acquisition of Chief, and repurchased $253 million of common stock. The company ended the year with cash and short-term investments of approximately $1.3 billion.
     At December 31, 2006, net debt to adjusted capitalization was 24 percent. Reconciliations of cash flow before balance sheet changes, net debt and adjusted capitalization, which are non-GAAP measures, are provided in this release.
Items Excluded from Published Earnings Estimates
     Devon's reported net earnings include items of income and expense that are typically excluded by securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. These items and their effects upon reported earnings for the full year and fourth quarter of 2006 were as follows:
     The following tables summarize the full-year and fourth-quarter effects of these items on 2006 earnings and income taxes. Included in the tables are the tax effects resulting from an income tax accrual adjustment that did not affect net earnings.
(in millions)
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts  Full Year 2006
 
     In aggregate, these items decreased full-year 2006 net earnings by $2 million, or one cent per common share (no effect per diluted share). In addition, a reclassification of deferred tax benefits increased cash flow before balance sheet changes by $35 million.
(in millions)
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts  Fourth Quarter 2006
     In aggregate, these items decreased fourth-quarter 2006 net earnings by $28 million, or six cents per common share (seven cents per diluted share).
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
     Devon will discuss its 2006 financial and operating results in a conference call webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). The webcast may be accessed from Devon's internet home page at
www.devonenergy.com.
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future drilling and production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to, inflation or lack of availability of goods and services, environmental risks, drilling risks and regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
     Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is one of the world's leading independent oil and gas producers and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at
www.devonenergy.com.
 
(net of royalties) All periods exclude properties discontinued in 2006
PRODUCTION DATA
 
Both periods exclude properties divested in 2005 and discontinued in 2006
FULL-YEAR PRODUCTION DATA  RETAINED PROPERTIES
 
(average realized prices)
REALIZED PRICE DATA
(average prices)
BENCHMARK PRICES
(average floating price differentials from benchmark prices)
PRICE DIFFERENTIALS, EXCLUDING EFFECTS OF HEDGES
 
(in millions, except per share data)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
(in millions)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
(in millions)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
RESERVE RECONCILIATION
 
(in millions)
COSTS INCURRED
Devon capitalizes certain general and administrative expenses which are related to property acquisition, exploration and development activities. Such capitalized expenses, which are included in the costs shown in the preceding tables, were $269 million and $188 million in the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, Devon capitalizes certain interest expenses which are related to property development activities. Such capitalized expenses, which are also included in the costs shown in the preceding tables, were $70 million in each of the years 2006 and 2005.
     (in millions)
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES DATA
 
DRILLING ACTIVITY
COMPANY OPERATED RIGS
 
DETAIL OF RECLASSIFICATION FOR DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
(US$ in millions)
STATEMENT OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS DATA
RESERVE DATA FOR EGYPT
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon concerning Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles.) The company must reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is a Non-GAAP financial measure. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to fund the company's capital expenditures, dividends and to service its debt. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is also used by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's financial results.
(in millions)
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
     Devon believes that using net debt, defined as debt less cash, short-term investments and the market value of Chevron common stock, for the calculation of "net debt to adjusted capitalization" provides a better measure than using debt. Devon believes that because cash and short-term investments can be used to repay indebtedness, netting cash and short-term investments against debt provides a clearer picture of the future demands on cash to repay debt. Included in Devon's indebtedness are $727 million of debentures exchangeable into 14.2 million shares of Chevron common stock owned outright by Devon. As of December 31, 2006, the market value of the shares ($1.0 billion) exceeded the related debt obligation. Devon believes deducting the market value of the stock provides a clearer picture of future demands on cash to repay debt. This methodology is also utilized by various lenders, rating agencies and securities analysts as a measure of Devon's indebtedness.
(in millions)
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
 
     Drill-bit capital is defined as costs incurred less proved acquisition costs, unproved acquisition costs resulting from business combinations and other significant similar transactions, and the net difference of accrued future asset retirement costs less actual cash retirement expenditures. Drill-bit capital is a non-GAAP measure. Devon believes drill-bit capital is relevant because it provides additional insight into costs associated with current year drilling, facilities and unproved acreage acquisitions unrelated to business combinations and other significant similar transactions. It should be noted that the actual costs of reserves added through Devon's drilling program will differ, sometimes significantly, from the direct comparison of capital spent and reserves added in any given period due to the timing of capital expenditures and reserve bookings. This methodology is also utilized by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's performance.
(in millions)
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION


