FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20070801161245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its news release dated August 1, 2007 announcing second quarter results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION
Date: August 1, 2007

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported net earnings of $904 million, or $2.02 per common share, ($2.00 per diluted common share), for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. In comparison, second-quarter 2006 net earnings were $859 million, or $1.94 per common share ($1.92 per diluted common share).
OKLAHOMA CITY  August 1, 2007
     For the six months ended June 30, 2007, the company reported net earnings of $1.6 billion, or $3.48 per common share ($3.44 per diluted common share). For the six months ended June 30, 2006, Devon earned $1.6 billion, or $3.52 per common share ($3.47 per diluted common share).
     Securities analysts typically exclude certain items from their published estimates. In aggregate, these items increased Devon's second-quarter 2007 net earnings by $59 million, or 13 cents per diluted share. The adjusting items are discussed in detail later in this news release.
Fifth Consecutive Quarterly Production Increase Exceeds Expectations
     Devon increased oil and gas production from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2007 to 56.2 million oil-equivalent barrels (Boe). This is a 16 percent increase compared with second-quarter 2006 production. Devon has increased oil and gas production from retained properties for five consecutive quarters.
     Second-quarter production benefited from better than expected performance from several core properties including the Barnett Shale. Also contributing to the production increase were minor favorable royalty adjustments in Canada, the timing of oil sales in Azerbaijan and a delay in scheduled downtime at the Panyu field in China.
Record Barnett Shale Production Leads Operating Highlights
     Devon drilled 425 successful wells in the second quarter of 2007 with an overall success rate of 98 percent. Following are highlights of operations conducted in the second quarter of 2007.
 
Increased Production Fuels 26 Percent Sales Growth
     Combined oil, gas and natural gas liquids production from continuing operations averaged 618 thousand Boe per day in the second quarter of 2007. This was a 16 percent increase in daily production from continuing operations compared with the second quarter in 2006. The production growth was concentrated in onshore fields in the United States and in Azerbaijan.
     Second-quarter combined daily production from continuing operations increased five percent compared with the first quarter of 2007. Devon now expects full-year 2007 production from continuing operations at the high end of a forecast range of 219 to 221 million Boe. This represents about a 10 percent increase when compared with 2006 annual production.
     Sales of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reached $2.5 billion in the second quarter of 2007. This was a 26 percent increase compared with the second quarter of 2006. The increase in sales was the result of greater production and increased realized prices for natural gas and natural gas liquids.
     The average realized price for natural gas increased 11 percent in the second quarter of 2007 to $6.50 per thousand cubic feet. This compares with $5.85 per thousand cubic feet in the second quarter of 2006. The company's average realized oil price decreased four percent to $60.01 per barrel in the second quarter of 2007 compared with $62.38 per barrel in the year-ago
 
period. Devon's realized natural gas liquids price increased four percent to $35.03 per barrel from $33.83 per barrel in the second quarter of 2006.
     Second-quarter 2007 marketing and midstream operating profit was $119 million, compared with $105 million in the second quarter of 2006. The 13 percent increase resulted primarily from an increase in marketed gas volumes and higher natural gas and natural gas liquids prices.
Cost Increases Supported by Greater Production and Revenues
     Devon's expenses in all categories are higher in 2007 than in 2006, but generally in line with expectations. The expense increases are being driven by industry-wide upward cost pressure and higher production and activity levels. Higher costs in the second quarter of 2007 were more than offset by higher revenues, leading to an increase in net earnings.
African Results Reported as Discontinued Operations
     Devon is in the process of divesting its assets and terminating operations in Egypt and West Africa. In accordance with accounting standards, Devon has reclassified the assets, liabilities and results of its operations in Egypt and West Africa as discontinued operations for all accounting periods presented in this release. Although revenues and expenses for prior periods were reclassified, there was no impact upon previously reported net earnings. Included with the financial information that follows is a table of revenues, expenses and production categories and the amounts reclassified as discontinued operations for each period presented.
Cash Flow Before Balance Sheet Changes Reaches Record Levels
     Cash flow before balance sheet changes reached a record total of $1.8 billion in the second quarter of 2007. The company used cash flow and cash on hand to fund $1.4 billion of capital expenditures during the second quarter.
     At June 30, 2007, net debt had been reduced to 20 percent of adjusted capitalization, compared with 26 percent at June 30, 2006. Reconciliations of cash flow before balance sheet changes, net debt and adjusted capitalization, which are non-GAAP measures, are provided in this release.
Items Excluded from Published Earnings Estimates
     Devon's reported net earnings include items of income and expense that are typically excluded by securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. These items and their effects upon second-quarter 2007 reported earnings were as follows:
 
     The following table summarizes the effects of these items on second-quarter 2007 earnings and income taxes.
(in millions)
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts  Second Quarter 2007
     In aggregate, these items increased second-quarter 2007 net earnings by $59 million, or 13 cents per common share (13 cents per diluted share).
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
     Devon will discuss its second-quarter 2007 financial and operating results and changes to its full-year 2007 outlook in a conference call webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). The webcast may be accessed from Devon's internet home page at
www.devonenergy.com.
     
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future drilling and production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to, inflation or lack of availability of goods and services, environmental risks, drilling risks and regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements
     
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. This release may contain certain terms, such as resource potential, reserve potential, probable reserves, possible reserves and exploration target size. The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including these terms in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our
Form 10-K
, File No. 001-32318, available from us at Devon Energy Corporation, Attn. Investor Relations, 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102. You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
     Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is one of the world's leading independent oil and gas producers and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at
www.devonenergy.com.
 
(net of royalties) All periods exclude discontinued operations from Egypt and West Africa
PRODUCTION DATA
 
(average realized prices)
REALIZED PRICE DATA
(average prices)
BENCHMARK PRICES
(average floating price differentials from benchmark prices)
PRICE DIFFERENTIALS, EXCLUDING EFFECTS OF HEDGES
 
(in millions, except per share data)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
(in millions)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
(in millions)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
DRILLING ACTIVITY
COMPANY OPERATED RIGS
(in millions)
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES DATA
Quarter Ended June 30, 2007
 
(in millions)
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES DATA
Six Months Ended June 30, 2007
DETAIL OF RECLASSIFICATION FOR DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS IN EGYPT AND WEST AFRICA
(in millions)
STATEMENTS OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS DATA
 
     The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon concerning Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles.) The company must reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is a Non-GAAP financial measure. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to fund the company's capital expenditures, dividends and to service its debt. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is also used by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's financial results.
(in millions)
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
     Devon believes that using net debt, defined as debt less cash, short-term investments and the market value of Chevron common stock, for the calculation of "net debt to adjusted capitalization" provides a better measure than using debt. Devon believes that because cash and short-term investments can be used to repay indebtedness, netting cash and short-term investments against debt provides a clearer picture of the future demands on cash to repay debt. Included in Devon's indebtedness are $737 million of debentures exchangeable into 14.2 million shares of Chevron common stock owned outright by Devon. As of June 30, 2007, the market value of the shares ($1.2 billion) exceeded the related debt obligation. Devon believes deducting the market value of the stock provides a clearer picture of future demands on cash to repay debt. This methodology is also utilized by various lenders, rating agencies and securities analysts as a measure of Devon's indebtedness.
(in millions)
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION


