FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20070905120727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its Press Release, dated August 29, 2007, announcing the election of David A. Hager as a member of its Board of Directors. A copy of the Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
     
(c)
Exhibits
     On August 31, 2007, David A. Hager of the Board of Directors of Devon Energy Corporation was granted 2,000 shares of restricted stock to vest 25% per year beginning August 31, 2008, and 3,000 stock options to purchase common stock of the Company at $75.31 per share, the closing price of the common stock as quoted by the New York Stock Exchange. Such options vest on August 31, 2007 and expire on August 30, 2015. The restricted stock and stock option grants were made under the Devon Energy Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: September 5, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) announced today that David A. Hager has been elected to it board of directors. Hager, 50, was chief operating officer of Kerr-McGee Corporation prior to its merger with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation in 2006. His term as a Devon director will expire in 2008.
OKLAHOMA CITY  August 29, 2007
     "Dave Hager's experience as an energy company operations executive makes him a valuable addition to Devon's board," said J. Larry Nichols, Devon's chairman and chief executive officer. "With more than 25 years in oil and gas exploration and production, he understands the opportunities and challenges of our business. We are very pleased that he has agreed to join Devon as a director."
     "Devon is a company that I have admired for many years," commented Hager. "Larry Nichols and his management team have created a premier large independent oil and gas company, while being outstanding corporate citizens. I look forward to working with Larry, his management team and the other members of the board."
     Hager joined Kerr-McGee in 1999 and held various executive positions in the exploration and production area. He began his energy industry career in 1979 as an exploration geophysicist for Mobil Oil Corporation. Hager's leadership experience includes domestic and international operations. He also has an extensive background in planning and executing deepwater exploration and development projects.
     Hager earned a bachelor's degree in geophysics from Purdue University and a master's in business from Southern Methodist University. He also completed executive management programs at Duke University and Harvard University.
     Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is one of the world's leading independent oil and gas producers and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For additional information, visit .
www.devonenergy.com


