FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20070606172650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its Press Release, dated June 6, 2007, announcing the re-election of Thomas F. Ferguson and David M. Gavrin to its Board of Directors. Also announced was the election of John Richels, Devon's President, as a member of its Board of Directors. Mr. Richels was elected to replace Peter J. Fluor who chose not to stand for re-election. A copy of the Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits
          99.1 Devon Energy Corporation Press Release dated June 6, 2007.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: June 6, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) announced today the elections of three members to its board of directors. Thomas F. Ferguson, a director since 1982, and David M. Gavrin, a director since 1979, were re-elected. John Richels, Devon's president, was elected to replace Peter J. Fluor who chose not to stand for re-election.
OKLAHOMA CITY  June 6, 2007
     "We are pleased to announce the addition of John Richels to Devon's board of directors," commented J. Larry Nichols, chairman and chief executive officer. "He joined the company in 1998 to run our Canadian division and was elected president in 2004. John is an outstanding executive and will be a valuable addition to the board. I also want to thank Peter Fluor for his service and past contribution to Devon's board."
     Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is one of the world's leading independent oil and gas producers and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For additional information, visit .
www.devonenergy.com


