FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20081105095056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its news release dated November 5, 2008 announcing third quarter results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
          
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: November 5, 2008

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
DEVON ENERGY REPORTS RECORD THIRD-QUARTER 2008 NET EARNINGS
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported net earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, of $2.6 billion, or $5.92 per common share ($5.87 per diluted common share). Third-quarter 2008 net earnings were 256 percent greater than Devon's third-quarter 2007 net earnings of $735 million, or $1.65 per common share ($1.63 per diluted common share). This is the highest quarterly net earnings in the company's history.
OKLAHOMA CITY  November 5, 2008
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, Devon reported net earnings of $4.7 billion, or $10.50 per common share ($10.40 per diluted common share). For the nine months ended September 30, 2007, Devon reported net earnings of $2.3 billion, or $5.13 per common share ($5.07 per diluted common share).
Earnings $3.09 per Share Excluding Items Not Estimated by Analysts
Devon's third-quarter 2008 reported net earnings of $2.6 billion were affected by certain items securities analysts typically exclude from their published estimates. Excluding these adjusting items, Devon earned $1.4 billion, or $3.09 per diluted common share. The most significant of the adjusting items was a non-cash, unrealized gain on oil and natural gas derivative instruments of $1.8 billion pre-tax ($1.2 billion after tax). This and other adjusting items are discussed in more detail later in this news release.
Third-Quarter Oil and Gas Sales Increase 62 Percent; Production Trimmed by Hurricanes
Sales of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids from continuing operations was $3.8 billion in the quarter ended September 30, 2008, compared with $2.3 billion in the same period in 2007. This 62 percent increase in sales was attributable to higher natural gas production combined with increased oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids pricing.
Despite reduced production volumes resulting from weather and operational down time, Devon's third-quarter production increased compared with 2007. Combined oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids production from continuing operations reached 58.6 million oil-equivalent barrels (Boe) in the third quarter of 2008. This was a three percent increase compared with the same quarter in 2007. Devon produced 637 thousand Boe per day in the third quarter of 2008 compared with 618 thousand Boe per day in the third quarter of 2007.
Much of Devon's U.S. offshore oil and gas production and a portion of its U.S. onshore oil and gas production was curtailed in the month of September as a result of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. The company estimates that the hurricanes reduced third-quarter 2008 oil and gas production by approximately 1.5 million Boe.
 
Third-quarter oil production was also curtailed by approximately 400,000 barrels at the ACG field in Azerbaijan. Transportation interruptions and a subsea natural gas leak required the operator to reduce production from the offshore Azeri platforms.
Third-Quarter Operations Highlight U.S., Canada and Brazil
Devon drilled 636 wells in the third quarter of 2008, with an overall success rate of 97 percent. Following are recent operating highlights:
$3 Billion in African Divestitures To Date
In September, Devon closed the sale of its operations in Cte d'Ivoire for $205 million. The aggregate pre-tax value of the combined African divestitures to date is approximately $3 billion.
In accordance with U.S. accounting standards, the company has classified the assets, liabilities and results of its operations in Africa as discontinued operations for all accounting periods presented in this release. Included in this release is a table of revenues, expenses and production categories and amounts reclassified as discontinued operations for each period presented.
Marketing and Midstream Profit at $169 Million
Marketing and midstream operating profit in the third quarter of 2008 reached $169 million. This was a 28 percent increase compared with the third quarter of 2007. The increase in operating profit reflects higher throughput and higher natural gas and natural gas liquids prices.
 
Expenses Generally in Line with Expectations
Expenses in most categories were generally in line with expectations in the third quarter of 2008. However, hurricane-related production curtailments led to higher than anticipated unit lease operating expense (LOE). Third-quarter LOE also included $14 million of costs associated with post-hurricane inspections and repairs. On a unit basis, third-quarter LOE was $10.09 per Boe compared with $8.04 per Boe in the third quarter of 2007.
Interest expense in the third quarter of 2008 decreased by 36 percent compared with the third quarter of 2007. The decrease was attributable to lower overall debt balances.
Cash Flow $2.6 Billion; Debt Repayment and Share Repurchases Total $1.3 Billion
Cash flow before balance sheet changes increased 49 percent to $2.6 billion in the third quarter of 2008. Devon funded $2.4 billion of capital expenditures in the third quarter, leaving $265 million of free cash flow. During the third quarter, the company used free cash flow and cash on hand to redeem $983 million of exchangeable debentures.
Also in the third quarter of 2008, Devon repurchased approximately 3.6 million shares of its common stock for approximately $363 million. The company repurchased a total of 6.5 million shares of its common stock in the first nine months of 2008. The company held cash and short-term investments of $1.2 billion at September 30, 2008.
Net debt as a percentage of adjusted capitalization was 13 percent at September 30, 2008. Reconciliations of cash flow before balance sheet changes, free cash flow, net debt and adjusted capitalization, which are non-GAAP measures, are provided in this release.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments
Devon accounts for derivative instruments using mark-to-market accounting. As a result, for each reporting period the company recognizes in earnings the unrealized changes in the fair values of its derivative instruments. An unrealized after-tax gain on oil and natural gas derivative instruments of $1.2 billion resulted from decreases in oil and natural gas prices during the third quarter of 2008. This third-quarter unrealized after-tax gain more than offset unrealized after-tax losses on oil and natural gas derivative instruments recorded in the first two quarters of 2008. The company will record additional unrealized gains or losses on oil and natural gas derivative instruments in the future depending upon the direction of commodity prices.
Items Excluded from Published Earnings Estimates
Devon's reported net earnings include items of income and expense that are typically excluded by securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. These items and their effects upon reported earnings for the third quarter of 2008 were as follows:
Items affecting continuing operations-
Item affecting discontinued operations-
 
The following tables summarize the effects of these items on third-quarter earnings and income taxes.
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts (in millions)
Quarter Ended September 30, 2008
Continuing Operations
In aggregate, these items increased third-quarter 2008 net earnings by $1.2 billion, or $2.80 per common share ($2.78 per diluted share).
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
Devon will discuss its third-quarter 2008 financial and operating results in a conference call webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). The webcast may be accessed from Devon's internet home page at .
www.devonenergy.com
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future drilling and production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to, inflation or lack of availability of goods and services, environmental risks, drilling risks and regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. This release may contain certain terms, such as resource potential, reserve potential, probable reserves, possible reserves and exploration target size. The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including these terms in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 10-K, File No. 001-32318, available from us at Devon Energy Corporation, Attn. Investor Relations, 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102. You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at .
www.devonenergy.com
 
 
BENCHMARK PRICES (average prices)
REALIZED PRICES (Excludes the effects of unrealized gains and losses from hedging)
Quarter Ended September 30, 2008
Quarter Ended September 30, 2007
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2007
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
DRILLING ACTIVITY
 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions) Quarter Ended September 30, 2008
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008
 
PRODUCTION FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
STATEMENTS OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon concerning Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles.) The company must reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information.
Cash flow before balance sheet changes and free cash flow are Non-GAAP financial measures. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to fund the company's capital expenditures, dividends and to service its debt. Devon believes free cash flow is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to pay dividends, service debt or buyback stock. Cash flow before balance sheet changes and free cash flow are used by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's financial results.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
Devon believes that using net debt for the calculation of "net debt to adjusted capitalization" provides a better measure than using debt. Devon defines net debt as debt less cash and short-term investments. Devon believes that because cash and short-term investments can be used to repay indebtedness, netting cash and short-term investments against debt provides a clearer picture of the future demands on cash to repay debt.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION


