FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20080507102422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its news release dated May 7, 2008 announcing first quarter results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits
          99.1 Devon Energy Corporation news release dated May 7, 2008.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: May 7, 2008

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
DEVON ENERGY INCREASED FIRST-QUARTER 2008 NET EARNINGS 15 PERCENT; GROWTH IN OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION FUELS RECORD CASH FLOW OF $2.6 BILLION
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported net earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, of $749 million, or $1.68 per common share ($1.66 per diluted common share). This is a 15 percent increase compared with Devon's first-quarter 2007 net earnings of $651 million, or $1.46 per common share ($1.44 per diluted common share).
OKLAHOMA CITY  May 7, 2008
Earnings $2.74 per Share Excluding Items Not Estimated by Analysts
First-quarter 2008 reported net earnings of $749 million were impacted by certain items securities analysts typically exclude from their published estimates. Excluding these items, Devon earned $1.2 billion or $2.74 per diluted share. By far the most significant of these items was a non-cash, unrealized loss on oil and natural gas derivative instruments of $780 million pre-tax ($500 million after tax).
Increased Production Drives 52 Percent Sales Growth
Combined oil, gas and natural gas liquids production from continuing operations averaged 640 thousand oil-equivalent barrels (Boe) per day in the first quarter of 2008. This was a nine percent increase in production from continuing operations compared with the first quarter of 2007. The production growth was concentrated in onshore fields within the United States and Canada. Devon has increased oil and natural gas production from retained properties for eight consecutive quarters.
Sales of oil, gas and natural gas liquids increased 52 percent to $3.2 billion in the first quarter of 2008. The combined effects of increased oil and gas production and higher oil, gas and natural gas liquids prices led to the increase in sales.
Barnett Shale Production Growth Leads Operating Highlights
Devon drilled 646 wells in the first quarter of 2008, with an overall success rate of 97 percent. Following are highlights of operations conducted in the first quarter of 2008:
 
African Divestitures Total $3 Billion
In 2006 and 2007, Devon announced it would divest its assets in Africa and terminate its African operations. In April 2008, Devon announced an agreement to sell its operations in Equatorial Guinea for $2.2 billion. To date, the company has announced sales agreements for its assets in six African countries with aggregate divestiture proceeds of more than $3 billion, before taxes. Devon expects to complete all of the announced transactions around mid-2008.
In accordance with accounting standards, Devon has classified the assets, liabilities and results of its operations in Africa as discontinued operations for all accounting periods presented in this release. Included with this release is a table of revenues, expenses and production categories and amounts reclassified as discontinued operations for each period presented.
Marketing and Midstream Profit Climbs 59 Percent
Marketing and midstream operating profit was $173 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2008, compared with $109 million in the same period in 2007. The 59 percent increase was largely attributable to higher natural gas and natural gas liquids prices.
Rising Expenses Reflect Higher Production and Activity Levels
Lease operating expenses (LOE) in the first quarter of 2008 increased to $506 million. On a unit of production basis, first-quarter 2008 LOE was $8.69 per Boe, or seven percent higher than the first quarter of 2007. The increase in unit LOE in the 2008 quarter reflects higher Canadian exchange rates, higher transportation costs and generally higher expenditures for oilfield services and supplies.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) of oil and gas properties increased to $737 million in the first quarter of 2008. Unit DD&A increased 14 percent to $12.64 per Boe.
As expected, first-quarter general and administrative expenses (G&A) increased to $148 million. Higher employee-related costs were the largest contributor to the quarterly increase in G&A. Devon has increased the size of its workforce to support expanding levels of large-scale exploration and development projects.
Interest expense for the first quarter of 2008 decreased to $102 million. This is seven percent less than first-quarter 2007 interest expense of $110 million.
Cash Flow at Record Level; Balance Sheet Strengthened
First-quarter cash flow before balance sheet changes reached a record $2.6 billion in 2008. This was a 74 percent increase compared with the first quarter of 2007. The company funded $2.0 billion of capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2008 and paid common and preferred dividends totaling $73 million. This resulted in free cash flow of nearly $600 million in the quarter. Cash on hand at March 31, 2008, increased to approximately $1.9 billion. A reconciliation of cash flow before balance sheet changes and free cash flow is provided later in this release.
 
Accounting for Derivative Instruments
Devon accounts for derivative instruments using mark-to-market accounting. As a result, Devon recognizes in earnings for each reporting period the unrealized changes in the fair values of its derivative instruments. A first-quarter unrealized loss on derivative instruments was the result of rising natural gas prices during the quarter. The company could record unrealized gains or losses on oil and natural gas derivative instruments in subsequent quarters dependent upon the direction of commodity prices.
Items Excluded from Published Earnings Estimates
Devon's reported net earnings include items of income and expense that are typically excluded by securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. These items and their effects upon reported earnings for the first quarter of 2008 were as follows:
     The following tables summarize the effects of these items on first-quarter earnings and income taxes.
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts  First Quarter 2008
(in millions)
In aggregate, these items decreased first-quarter 2008 net earnings by $486 million, or $1.09 per common share ($1.08 per diluted share).
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
Devon will discuss its first-quarter 2008 financial and operating results in a conference call webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). The webcast may be accessed from Devon's internet home page at
www.devonenergy.com.
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future drilling and production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to, inflation or lack of availability of goods and services, environmental risks, drilling risks and regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be
economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. This release may contain certain terms, such as resource potential, reserve potential, probable reserves, possible reserves and exploration target size. The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including these terms in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 10-K, File No. 001-32318, available from us at Devon Energy Corporation,
 
Attn. Investor Relations, 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102. You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at
www.devonenergy.com.
 
Excludes discontinued operations
PRODUCTION (net of royalties)
 
BENCHMARK PRICES (average prices)
REALIZED PRICES (Excludes the effects of unrealized gains (losses) from hedging)
Quarter Ended March 31, 2008
Quarter Ended March 31, 2007
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions) Quarter Ended March 31, 2008
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except peer share amounts)
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions)
 
DRILLING ACTIVITY
COMPANY OPERATED RIGS
 
PRODUCTION FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
STATEMENTS OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon concerning Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles.) The company must reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information.
Cash flow before balance sheet changes and free cash flow are Non-GAAP financial measures. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to fund the company's capital expenditures, dividends and to service its debt. Devon believes free cash flow is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to service debt. Cash flow before balance sheet changes and free cash flow are also used by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's financial results.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
(in millions)


