FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20080618123347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
     On June 3, 2008, Devon Energy Corporation announced it had completed the sale of its oil and gas assets in the African nation of Equatorial Guinea to GEPetrol, the national oil company of Equatorial Guinea. The sale price was $2.2 billion before taxes, $1.7 billion after taxes, based on an effective date of January 1, 2008.
     Devon Energy Corporation filed a Form 8-K on June 4, 2008, related to this sale. This amendment to that Form 8-K includes unaudited pro forma condensed financial information related to this sale.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
          
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
     The Devon Energy Corporation unaudited pro forma condensed financial information begins on page F-1 of this report.
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: June 18, 2008
 
Introduction
     On June 3, 2008, Devon Energy Corporation ("Devon") announced it had completed the sale of its oil and gas assets in the African nation of Equatorial Guinea to GEPetrol, the national oil company of Equatorial Guinea. The sale price was $2.2 billion before taxes, $1.7 billion after taxes, based on an effective date of January 1, 2008. Pursuant to the terms of the purchase and sale agreement, the proceeds were subject to additional purchase price adjustments which consisted primarily of net cash flow subsequent to the effective date of the sale. As a result of such purchase price adjustments, Devon received approximately $1.6 billion in net, after-tax proceeds at closing.
     Pursuant to accounting rules for discontinued operations, Devon has classified all financial amounts related to its operations in Equatorial Guinea as discontinued operations in its historical financial statements. The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet includes Devon's total operations. As a result, assets and liabilities related to Devon's discontinued operations in Equatorial Guinea are included in the balance sheet. However, the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations only include Devon's continuing operations. Therefore, all revenues and expenses associated with Devon's operations in Equatorial Guinea are excluded from the accompanying statements of operations.
     Devon has previously disclosed that it intends to use the proceeds from the sales of its operations in Equatorial Guinea and other West African countries to repay outstanding commercial paper and revolving credit facility borrowings and resume common stock repurchases. The pro forma adjustments in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements assume all proceeds were used to repay outstanding commercial paper and revolving credit facility borrowings.
     The adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are based on currently available information and certain estimates and assumptions. Therefore, actual results may differ from the pro forma adjustments. However, management believes that the estimates and assumptions used provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects of the sale of Devon's assets in Equatorial Guinea. Management also believes the pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to the estimates and assumptions and are applied in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not assert to present Devon's results of operations had the Equatorial Guinea sale been completed at the dates indicated. In addition, they do not project Devon's results of operations for any future period.
 
 
 
 
1. Basis of Presentation
     The historical condensed balance sheet as of March 31, 2008 and historical condensed statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2008 is derived from and should be read in conjunction with Devon's unaudited financial statements in its March 31, 2008 Form 10-Q, which was filed on May 8, 2008. The historical condensed statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 is derived from and should be read in conjunction with Devon's audited financial statements in its December 31, 2007 Form 10-K/A, which was filed on June 9, 2008.
     The pro forma adjustments in the accompanying condensed balance sheet have been prepared as if the sale of Devon's operations in Equatorial Guinea was completed on March 31, 2008. The pro forma adjustments in the accompanying condensed statements of operations have been prepared as if the sale of Devon's operations in Equatorial Guinea was completed on January 1, 2007.
     These pro forma financial statements do not purport to be indicative of the financial position or results of operations of Devon as of such date or for such periods, nor are they necessarily indicative of future results.
2. Pro Forma Adjustments and Assumptions
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements give pro forma effect to the following:
     (a) Reflects proceeds received of approximately $1,553 million and the elimination of approximately $747 million of net assets related to Devon's operations in Equatorial Guinea. The difference between these two amounts of approximately $806 million represents the financial gain on the sale, assuming the sale had closed on March 31, 2008.
     (b) Reflects the repayment of approximately $1,446 million of outstanding commercial paper borrowings and $107 million of Senior Credit Facility borrowings.
     (c) Reflects the elimination of interest expense of approximately $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and approximately $17 million for the three months ended March 31, 2008, related to the repayment of outstanding debt.
     (d) Reflects additional current income tax expense of approximately $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and approximately $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2008, related to the elimination of interest expense as described in (c) above.


