FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20091104104246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its news release dated November 4, 2009 announcing third quarter results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
          
(d) Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: November 4, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
DEVON ENERGY EARNS $499 MILLION ON INCREASED THIRD-QUARTER OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION AND LOWER COSTS
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported net earnings of $499 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, or $1.13 per common share ($1.12 per diluted common share). For the quarter ended September 30, 2008, Devon reported net earnings of $2.6 billion, or $5.93 per common share ($5.88 per diluted common share).
OKLAHOMA CITY  November 4, 2009
Production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids increased six percent to 61.9 million oil-equivalent barrels (Boe) in the third quarter of 2009. Costs in nearly every expense category were lower in the third quarter of 2009 compared with the same period in the previous year. Strong production growth and lower overall costs were more than offset by significantly lower product prices.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2009, Devon reported a net loss of $3.1 billion, or $7.09 per common share ($7.09 per diluted common share). A $4.2 billion non-cash, after-tax reduction in the carrying value of oil and gas properties in the first quarter of 2009 drove the year-to-date loss. For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, the company reported net earnings of $4.7 billion, or $10.50 per common share ($10.40 per diluted common share).
"Year to date, Devon increased oil and gas production eight percent compared with 2008," commented President John Richels. "The performance of the company's oil and gas properties has continued to exceed our expectations throughout 2009."
Minimal Impact from Items Not Estimated by Analysts
Devon's third-quarter 2009 financial results were increased slightly by the net effects of items securities analysts typically exclude from their published estimates. Excluding the adjusting items, Devon earned $491 million or $1.10 per diluted common share in the third quarter of 2009. The adjusting items are discussed in more detail later in this news release.
Companywide Production Increased
Combined oil, gas and natural gas liquids production averaged 673 thousand Boe per day in the third quarter of 2009. This is the highest third-quarter production in Devon's history and a six percent increase compared with the third quarter of 2008.
Each of Devon's operating segments contributed to the production growth. Growth in oil and natural gas liquids production in the United States was greater than the decline in natural gas volumes. The continuing ramp up of volumes at the Jackfish oil sands project led Canadian oil production growth. Canadian natural gas production also increased, principally due to lower government royalties. Canadian royalties are calculated on a sliding scale. Therefore, at lower product prices, a producer's share of Canadian gas production increases.
 
Sequentially, average daily oil and gas production in the third quarter decreased six percent when compared with 719 thousand Boe per day produced in the second quarter of 2009. The decrease is attributable to voluntary reductions, planned maintenance downtime and natural declines.
Revenues from oil, gas and natural gas liquids sales decreased 54 percent to $1.7 billion in the third quarter of 2009 compared with the third quarter of 2008. Significantly lower product prices more than offset the growth in natural gas and liquids production.
Other income, net of expenses, increased 17 percent to $96 million in the third quarter of 2009. This amount includes an $84 million accrual reversal resulting from a favorable federal court ruling pertaining to royalties in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. For the third quarter of 2008, other income included $57 million of hurricane damage-related insurance recoveries.
Haynesville Shale Success Leads Operational Highlights
Devon drilled 233 wells in the third quarter of 2009 compared with 636 wells drilled in the third quarter of 2008. In both periods, approximately 97 percent of the wells were successful. In spite of significantly reduced drilling activity in 2009, Devon achieved several notable operational accomplishments in the third quarter:
Costs Decline in Most Expense Categories
Devon continued to report favorable cost comparisons in the third quarter of 2009 versus the year-ago quarter. The company reduced lease operating expenses (LOE) 15 percent, to $505 million. Unit LOE decreased by an even greater 19 percent to $8.16 per Boe, reflecting both lower absolute costs and increased production volumes.
Compared with the third quarter of 2008, depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) of oil and gas properties decreased 39 percent to $480 million. Unit DD&A decreased by 42 percent to $7.75 per Boe in the third quarter of 2009.
The company also reduced general and administrative expenses (G&A) in the most recent quarter. G&A decreased by seven percent to $137 million.
 
Interest expense increased by 30 percent to $90 million compared with the third quarter of 2008. The increase results from a larger debt balance.
Income Taxes Reduced by Adjustments
Third-quarter 2009 income tax expense was reduced by $121 million attributable to four separate adjustments. These tax adjustments are presented in the table below listing the effects of items typically excluded by securities analysts in published estimates.
Maintaining Financial Strength
Cash flow before balance sheet changes reached $1.2 billion in the third quarter of 2009. This cash flow fully funded total capital investments and generated $168 million of free cash flow in the quarter. Devon exited the third quarter with more than $900 million of cash on hand and $1.9 billion of unused credit facilities.
At September 30, 2009, net debt to adjusted capitalization was 31 percent. Reconciliations of cash flow before balance sheet changes, free cash flow, net debt and adjusted capitalization, which are non-GAAP measures, are provided in this news release.
Items Excluded from Published Earnings Estimates
Devon's reported net earnings include items of income and expense that are typically excluded by securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. These items and their effects upon reported earnings for the third quarter of 2009 were as follows:
Items affecting continuing operations-
The following table summarizes the effects of these items on third-quarter earnings and income taxes.
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts (in millions)
Quarter Ended September 30, 2009
Continuing Operations
In aggregate, these items increased third-quarter 2009 net earnings by $8 million, or two cents per common share (two cents per diluted share). These items and their associated tax effects increased third-quarter 2009 cash flow before balance sheet changes by $31 million.
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
Devon will discuss its third-quarter 2009 financial and operating results in a conference call webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). The webcast may be accessed from Devon's internet home page at .
www.devonenergy.com
 
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future drilling and production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices; uncertainties inherent in estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; drilling risks; environmental risks; and political or regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are made as of the date of this press release, even if subsequently made available by Devon on its website or otherwise. Devon does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. This release may contain certain terms, such as resource potential, reserve potential, probable reserves, possible reserves and exploration target size. The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including these terms in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 10-K, File No. 001-32318, available from us at Devon Energy Corporation, Attn. Investor Relations, 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102. You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at .
www.devonenergy.com
 
PRODUCTION (net of royalties)
 
BENCHMARK PRICES
(average prices)
REALIZED PRICES
(excludes the effects of unrealized gains and losses from hedging)
Quarter Ended September 30, 2009
Quarter Ended September 30, 2008
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
DRILLING ACTIVITY
 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions) Quarter Ended September 30, 2009
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009
 
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon concerning Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles.) The company must reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information.
Cash flow before balance sheet changes and free cash flow are Non-GAAP financial measures. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to fund the company's capital expenditures, dividends and to service its debt. Devon believes free cash flow is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to pay dividends, service debt or buyback stock. Cash flow before balance sheet changes and free cash flow are used by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's financial results.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION (in millions)
Devon believes that using net debt for the calculation of "net debt to adjusted capitalization" provides a better measure than using debt. Devon defines net debt as debt less cash and cash equivalents. Devon believes that because cash can be used to repay indebtedness, netting cash and cash equivalents against debt provides a clearer picture of the future demands on cash to repay debt.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION (in millions)


