FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20090316163456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     As announced on March 11, 2009, David A. Hager resigned from the Board of Directors of Devon Energy Corporation (the "Company") to accept the position of Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production of the Company, which was previously held by Stephen J. Hadden.
     Mr. Hager, 52, joined Devon's board of directors in 2007 and has served as chairman of the Reserves Committee. He served as chief operating officer of Kerr-McGee Corp. prior to its merger with Anadarko Petroleum Corp. in 2006. He has more than 25 years of oil and gas exploration and production experience, including an extensive background in planning and executing deepwater exploration and development projects. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Geophysics from Purdue University and a Masters in Business Administration degree from Southern Methodist University. Mr. Hager also serves as a director of Pride International, Inc.
     Mr. Hager will be entering into an employment agreement with the Company, the form of which is attached as Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Mr. Hager's starting annual base salary will be $675,000 and he will be awarded 20,000 shares of restricted Devon common stock, plus 45,000 Devon stock options. The employment agreement also states that Mr. Hager will be eligible to participate in the Company's performance bonus program, as well as other normal employee benefits.
     Mr. Hadden resigned on March 11, 2009 as the Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production of the Company to pursue other opportunities. In connection with Mr. Hadden's resignation, the Company and Mr. Hadden entered into a Separation and Release Agreement (the "Separation Agreement") dated March 11, 2009 that provides Mr. Hadden with the payments and benefits he would have been entitled to under his employment agreement with the Company had he been terminated by the Company without cause. The form of Mr. Hadden's employment agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. The Separation Agreement also includes a customary release of claims by Mr. Hadden, as well a provision allowing the recoupment of his severance benefits under certain circumstances. Mr. Hadden will remain subject to the non-solicitation and non-disclosure covenants included in his employment agreement.
     The foregoing summary of the Separation Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: March 16, 2009

EXHIBIT 10.1
     This Separation and Release Agreement (the "") is effective March 11, 2009, by and between Stephen J. Hadden (the "") and Devon Energy Corporation (the "").
Agreement
Executive
Company
     WHEREAS, the Executive is employed as the Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production of the Company;
     WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company have into entered an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with an effective date of December 15, 2008 (the ""); and
Employment Agreement
     WHEREAS, the parties desire to enter this Agreement to reflect their mutual undertakings, promises and agreements concerning the Executive's resignation of his employment with the Company and payments and benefits to the Executive upon or by reason of such resignation.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for the valuable consideration paid or given under this Agreement, the receipt, adequacy and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties knowingly and voluntarily agree to the following terms:
 
 
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Separation and Release Agreement has been agreed to and executed to be effective as of the day and year first above written.

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
DEVON ENERGY NAMES DAVID A. HAGER TO HEAD EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION OPERATIONS
- Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE: DVN) announced today that David A. Hager has been appointed to the position of executive vice president, exploration and production. Mr. Hager will be responsible for all of Devon's oil and natural gas exploration, drilling and production operations.
OKLAHOMA CITY  March 11, 2009
Mr. Hager is currently a member of Devon's board of directors. He will resign from the board immediately.
"We are very pleased that Dave Hager has agreed to join Devon's executive management team," said President John Richels. "His extensive industry experience has enabled him to make a significant contribution to the company in his role as a director. He will now be in a position to have an even greater impact upon Devon's success through his leadership of our exploration and production operations."
Mr. Hager, 52, joined Devon's board of directors in 2007 and has served as chairman of the Reserves Committee. He served as chief operating officer of Kerr-McGee Corp. prior to its merger with Anadarko Petroleum Corp. in 2006. He has more than 25 years of oil and gas exploration and production experience, including an extensive background in planning and executing deepwater exploration and development projects. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Geophysics from Purdue University and a Masters in Business Administration degree from Southern Methodist University. Mr. Hager also serves as a director of Pride International, Inc.
Mr. Hager will fill the position previously held by Stephen J. Hadden. Mr. Hadden has left the company to pursue other opportunities.
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For additional information, visit .
www.devonenergy.com


