FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20090506100706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its news release dated May 6, 2009 announcing first quarter results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
          
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: May 6, 2009

EXHIBIT 99.1
DEVON ENERGY REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported a net loss of $4.0 billion for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, or $8.92 per common share ($8.92 per diluted common share). A $4.2 billion non-cash, after-tax reduction in the carrying value of oil and gas properties led to the quarterly net loss. In the first quarter of 2008, Devon reported net earnings of $749 million, or $1.68 per common share ($1.66 per diluted common share).
OKLAHOMA CITY  May 6, 2009
Earnings 48 Cents per Share Excluding Items Not Estimated by Analysts
Devon's first-quarter 2009 financial results were impacted by certain items securities analysts typically exclude from their published estimates. The most significant of these items was a $4.2 billion after-tax reduction in the carrying value of oil and gas properties. Excluding the reduction in carrying value of oil and gas properties and other adjusting items, Devon earned $216 million or 48 cents per diluted common share in the first quarter of 2009. The adjusting items are discussed in more detail later in this news release.
The non-cash charge resulted from application of the ceiling test as prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for companies that follow the full-cost method of accounting. Under the full-cost method of accounting, a company's net book value of its oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated "ceiling." The test is performed separately for each country in which the company operates. The ceiling is the estimated after-tax stream of future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, discounted at 10 percent per year using costs and prices held flat, plus the cost of unevaluated properties. Any excess is written off as a non-cash expense. The expense may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher oil and gas prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. Full-cost companies must use the prices in effect at the end of each accounting quarter to calculate the ceiling value of reserves. Future net revenues are calculated assuming continuation of prices and costs in effect at the time of the calculation, except for changes that are fixed and determinable by existing contracts. Although the SEC recently modified its rules applicable to the ceiling test, the new rules do not take effect until year-end 2009.
Production Growth Offset by Lower Realized Prices
Combined oil, gas and natural gas liquids production averaged 685 thousand oil-equivalent barrels (Boe) per day in the first quarter of 2009. This was a seven percent increase in production compared with the first quarter of 2008. The production growth was concentrated in onshore fields within the United States and Canada.
Although production increased, sales of oil, gas and natural gas liquids decreased 53 percent to $1.5 billion in the first quarter of 2009. Significantly lower prices for all three products more than offset the quarter-over-quarter increase in oil-equivalent production.
Devon's realized price for natural gas decreased 49 percent in the first quarter of 2009, to $3.73 per thousand cubic feet. This compares with $7.31 per thousand cubic feet in the first quarter of 2008. Devon's average realized oil price decreased 62 percent to $33.61 per barrel in the first quarter of 2009 compared with $88.23 per barrel in the prior-year period. Devon's realized natural gas liquids price decreased 61 percent to $18.60 per barrel from $47.40 per barrel in the first quarter of 2008.
 
Operating Highlights Show Production Gains
Devon drilled 451 wells in the first quarter of 2009 compared with 646 wells it drilled in the first quarter of 2008. The company has reduced drilling activity and related capital expenditures in response to declines in natural gas and oil prices. Despite the reduced level of drilling, Devon achieved several notable operational accomplishments in the first quarter:
Marketing and Midstream Profit Declines with Prices
Marketing and midstream operating profit was $142 million in the first quarter of 2009. This was an 18 percent decrease compared with the first quarter of 2008. The decrease was largely attributable to lower natural gas and natural gas liquids prices.
Costs Begin Improving
First-quarter 2009 expenses in most categories decreased in comparison to the first quarter of 2008. Unit lease operating expenses (LOE) decreased by two percent to $8.50 per Boe in the first quarter of 2009. The decrease in unit LOE primarily reflects lower Canadian exchange rates.
Production taxes declined 68 percent to $42 million in the first quarter of 2009 compared with the first quarter of 2008. The decline in production taxes tracks the first-quarter decline in oil and natural gas sales.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) of oil and gas properties decreased 19 percent to $599 million in the first quarter of 2009. Unit DD&A decreased 23 percent to $9.72 per Boe compared with the first quarter of 2008.
First-quarter 2009 general and administrative expenses (G&A) increased 12 percent to $166 million compared with the first quarter of 2008. The company expects G&A to trend down for the remainder of the year.
Interest expense for the first quarter of 2009 decreased to $83 million. This 19 percent decrease compared with the first quarter of 2008 reflects decreased long-term debt levels and lower interest rates.
Retaining Balance Sheet Strength and Liquidity
Devon's net debt to adjusted capitalization ratio was 34 percent at March 31, 2009. Cash on hand at quarter-end was $397 million and unused credit facilities totaled over $2.3 billion. First-quarter 2009
 
cash flow before balance sheet changes totaled $988 million. The company funded $1.5 billion of capital expenditures and paid common dividends of $70 million in the first quarter of 2009. Reconciliations of cash flow before balance sheet changes, net debt and adjusted capitalization, which are non-GAAP measures, are provided in this release.
Items Excluded from Published Earnings Estimates
Devon's reported net earnings include items of income and expense that are typically excluded by securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. These items and their effects upon reported earnings for the first quarter of 2009 were as follows:
The following tables summarize the effects of these items on first-quarter earnings and income taxes.
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts  First Quarter 2009
In aggregate, these items decreased first-quarter 2009 net earnings by $4.2 billion, or $9.41 per common share ($9.40 per diluted share).
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
Devon will discuss its first-quarter 2009 financial and operating results in a conference call webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). The webcast may be accessed from Devon's internet home page at
www.devonenergy.com.
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future drilling and production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices; uncertainties inherent in estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; drilling risks; environmental risks; and political or regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are made as of the date of this press release, even if subsequently made available by Devon on its website or otherwise. Devon does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. This release may contain certain terms, such as resource potential, reserve potential, probable reserves, possible reserves and exploration target size. The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including these terms in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 10-K, File No. 001-32318, available from us at Devon Energy Corporation, Attn. Investor Relations, 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102. You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
 
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at .
www.devonenergy.com
 
Excludes discontinued operations
PRODUCTION (net of royalties)
 
BENCHMARK PRICES (average prices)
REALIZED PRICES (excludes the effects of unrealized gains and losses from hedging)
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
DRILLING ACTIVITY
COMPANY OPERATED RIGS
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon concerning Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles.) The company must reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is a Non-GAAP financial measure. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to fund the company's capital expenditures, dividends and to service its debt. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is also used by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's financial results.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
Devon believes that using net debt for the calculation of "net debt to adjusted capitalization" provides a better measure than using debt. Devon defines net debt as debt less cash and cash equivalents. Devon believes that because cash can be used to repay indebtedness, netting cash and cash equivalents against debt provides a clearer picture of the future demands on cash to repay debt.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION


