FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20090408165208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its Press Release, dated April 7, 2009, announcing the appointment of Robert A. Mosbacher, Jr. to its Board of Directors. A copy of the Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: April 8, 2009

EXHIBIT 99.1
DEVON ENERGY ANNOUNCES ROBERT MOSBACHER, JR. TO REJOIN BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OKLAHOMA CITY  April 7, 2009  Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) announced today that Robert A. Mosbacher, Jr. has been appointed to its board of directors. Mr. Mosbacher fills the position vacated by David A. Hager who was recently named Devon's executive vice president of exploration and production.
Mosbacher previously served on Devon's board of directors from 1999 until his resignation in 2005. His resignation resulted from his appointment in 2005 as president and chief executive officer of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC). OPIC is an independent agency of the federal government that supports private capital investment in emerging markets around the world.
"We are very pleased that Rob Mosbacher has agreed to return to Devon's board of directors," commented J. Larry Nichols, chairman and chief executive officer. "His familiarity with Devon, industry experience and service in the public sector make him uniquely qualified for Devon's board."
Mosbacher previously served as president and chief executive officer of Mosbacher Energy Company, an independent oil and natural gas exploration and production company, from 1986 to 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Mosbacher had a distinguished public service career. He currently also serves as a director of Calpine Corporation.
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is the largest U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For additional information, visit
www.devonenergy.com.


