FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20101103093834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its news release dated November 3, 2010 announcing third quarter results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
          
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: November 3, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
DEVON ENERGY'S THIRD-QUARTER 2010 NET EARNINGS INCREASE TO $2.1 BILLION
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported net earnings of $2.1 billion for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, or $4.81 per common share ($4.79 per diluted common share). This compares with third-quarter 2009 net earnings of $499 million, or $1.13 per common share ($1.12 per diluted common share).
OKLAHOMA CITY  November 3, 2010
For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, Devon reported net earnings of $4.0 billion, or $9.02 per common share ($8.99 per diluted common share). This compared with a net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, of $3.1 billion, or $7.09 per common share ($7.09 per diluted common share).
Devon's third-quarter 2010 financial results were impacted by certain items securities analysts typically exclude from their published estimates. The most significant of the adjusting items was a $1.5 billion gain on the sale of assets in Azerbaijan. Excluding adjusting items, the company earned $628 million, or $1.44 per diluted common share. The adjusting items are discussed in more detail later in this news release.
Divestiture Program Advances; Share Repurchase Plan On Track
In November 2009, Devon announced a plan to strategically reposition itself as a focused North American onshore company. During the third quarter of 2010, Devon completed the sale of its assets in Azerbaijan and China. To date, the company has received aggregate pre-tax proceeds of $6.8 billion. The only significant, remaining divestiture package, Devon's assets in Brazil, is under a $3.2 billion contract and is expected to close around year-end 2010. Total proceeds from the divestiture program are expected to exceed $10 billion with after-tax proceeds approximating $8 billion.
On May 5, 2010, the company announced a portion of its divestiture proceeds would be utilized to repurchase $3.5 billion of common stock. As of September 30, 2010, Devon had repurchased 14.7 million shares of its common stock for $936 million. In addition, Devon also directed $1.7 billion of sales proceeds to reduce debt balances and allocated $1.2 billion to capture leasehold across its North American onshore property base, principally in oil and liquids-rich areas.
Oil and Liquids Production Growth Lead Third-Quarter Operating Highlights
Devon drilled 407 wells in the third quarter of 2010 with an overall success rate of 99 percent. The company achieved several notable operational accomplishments in the third-quarter:
 
Oil and Gas Revenues Increase; Midstream Operating Profit Expands
Sales of oil, gas, and natural gas liquids from continuing operations were $1.7 billion in the third quarter of 2010. This was a 14 percent increase compared to the third quarter of 2009. Higher realized natural gas and liquids prices more than offset a decrease in production following the Gulf of Mexico properties that were divested in the second quarter of 2010. Devon's average third-quarter realized price per Boe, including the impact of hedges, increased 23 percent over the year-ago period to $33.96 per barrel.
Devon's marketing and midstream operating profit totaled $125 million in the third quarter of 2010. For comparison, marketing and midstream operating profit was $103 million in the third quarter of 2009. The 20 percent year-over-year increase was attributable to higher throughput and higher natural gas and natural gas liquids prices.
Oil and gas production from continuing operations averaged 613,000 oil-equivalent barrels per day representing a four percent increase in the company's North American onshore production over the third quarter of 2009. Oil and natural gas liquids production growth from the company's U.S. onshore segment drove the increase.
Repositioning Drives Cost Savings
The efficiencies realized through the strategic repositioning of the company were reflected in Devon's third-quarter results. Expenses in most categories declined both in total and on a unit-of-production basis.
Lease operating expenses (LOE) in the quarter totaled $415 million or $1 million less than the third quarter of 2009. When compared to the second quarter of 2010, LOE declined by $27 million. Devon's divestiture of higher cost Gulf of Mexico properties more than offset the effects of rising oilfield service and supply costs.
Third-quarter general and administrative expenses declined by three percent to $131 million in 2010 compared with 2009.
The company also reduced interest expense in the most recent quarter. Compared with the third quarter of 2009, interest expense decreased eight percent to $83 million due to lower overall debt balances.
 
Taxes other than income taxes increased $14 million to $95 million in the third quarter of 2010. The year-over-year increase was driven by higher production taxes resulting from increased oil and gas revenues.
Compared with the third quarter of 2009, depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense (DD&A) of oil and gas properties declined by six percent to $397 million. Unit DD&A declined four percent to $7.04 per Boe in the third quarter of 2010.
Income tax expense from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2010 was $270 million or 39 percent of pre-tax earnings. After adjusting for several items generally excluded by securities analysts, Devon's third quarter tax rate totaled 33 percent of pre-tax earnings.
Cash Flow Increases 47 Percent; Divestiture Proceeds Add to Cash on Hand
Cash flow before balance sheet changes totaled $1.8 billion in the third quarter of 2010, a 47 percent increase over the third quarter a year ago. Other sources of cash included $2.0 billion in proceeds from the divestitures in Azerbaijan and China. Devon utilized a portion of this cash flow in the third quarter to fully fund its capital program and to repurchase $441 million of common stock. At September 30, 2010, the company's cash balances reached $4.0 billion, and its net debt to adjusted capitalization ratio declined to eight percent. Reconciliations of cash flow before balance sheet changes, net debt and adjusted capitalization, which are non-GAAP measures, are provided in this release.
Divestitures Impact Reported Financial and Operational Results
In accordance with accounting standards, Devon has reclassified the assets, liabilities, and results of its international segment as discontinued operations for all accounting periods presented in this release. Although revenues and expenses for prior periods were reclassified, previously reported net earnings were not impacted. Included with this release is a table of revenues, expenses, production categories, and the amounts reclassified as discontinued operations for each period presented.
Items Excluded from Published Earnings Estimates
Devon's reported net earnings include income and expense items that are typically excluded by securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. These items and their effects upon reported earnings for the third quarter of 2010 are summarized below:
Items affecting continuing operations:
Items affecting discontinued operations:
The following tables summarize the effects of these items on third-quarter 2010 earnings, income taxes, and cash flow.
 
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts (in millions)
Continuing Operations  Third Quarter 2010
Discontinued Operations  Third Quarter 2010
In aggregate, these items increased third-quarter 2010 net earnings by $1.5 billion, or $3.37 per common share ($3.35 per diluted share). These items and their associated tax effects increased third-quarter 2010 cash flow before balance sheet changes by $235 million.
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
Devon will discuss its third-quarter 2010 financial and operating results in a conference call that will be webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time) and can be accessed from Devon's internet home page at .
www.devonenergy.com
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is a leading U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at .
www.devonenergy.com
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. These risks include, but are not limited to, the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices; uncertainties inherent in estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; drilling risks; environmental risks; political or regulatory changes; the availability of goods and services; and the occurrence, timing and completion of property divestitures. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are made as of the date of this press release, even if subsequently made available by Devon on its website or otherwise. Devon does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Effective January 1, 2010, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved, probable and possible reserves that meet the SEC's definitions for such terms, and price and cost sensitivities for such reserves, and prohibits disclosure of resources that do not constitute such reserves. This release may contain certain terms, such as resource potential and exploration target size. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved, probable and possible reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized. The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including these estimates in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, available from us at Devon Energy Corporation, Attn. Investor Relations, 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102. You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
.
 
Excludes discontinued operations
PRODUCTION (net of royalties)
 
BENCHMARK PRICES (average prices)
Quarter Ended September 30, 2010
Quarter Ended September 30, 2009
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
COMPANY OPERATED RIGS
DRILLING ACTIVITY
Gross wells drilled
 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions)
Quarter Ended September 30, 2010
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions)
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010
 
PRODUCTION FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
STATEMENTS OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon concerning Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles.) The company must reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information.
Cash flow before balance sheet changes is a Non-GAAP financial measure. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available for capital expenditures, dividends, debt repayments or stock repurchases. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is used by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's financial results.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
Devon believes that using net debt for the calculation of "net debt to adjusted capitalization" provides a better measure than using debt. Devon defines net debt as debt less cash and cash equivalents. Devon believes that because cash and cash equivalents can be used to repay indebtedness, netting cash and cash equivalents against debt provides a clearer picture of the future demands on cash to repay debt.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION


