FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20100614111059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
     On June 9, 2010, we completed the sale of our shallow water oil and gas assets in the Gulf of Mexico to Apache Corporation. The sale price was $1.05 billion before taxes, or approximately $840 million after taxes, based on an effective date of January 1, 2010.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
     Devon Energy Corporation unaudited pro forma condensed financial information is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
     Our historical financial statements include amounts related to the assets sold to Apache Corporation, as well as amounts related to our other Gulf of Mexico assets that we have sold in 2010. With the completion of the Apache divestiture, we have essentially divested all our assets in the Gulf of Mexico. We are required to provide pro forma financial information with respect to the Apache divestiture transaction but not the other divestiture transactions. However, we believe pro forma financial information prepared with respect to all our 2010 Gulf of Mexico divestiture transactions is more useful to investors because it reflects our continuing operations, excluding all Gulf of Mexico divestiture assets. Therefore, although not required, we have prepared the pro forma financial information with respect to all 2010 Gulf of Mexico divestiture transactions.
     
(d) Exhibits
99.1   Devon Energy Corporation news release dated June 10, 2010.
99.2   Devon Energy Corporation unaudited pro forma condensed financial information.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 14, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
DEVON ENERGY COMPLETES EXIT FROM GULF OF MEXICO
OKLAHOMA CITY  June 10, 2010  Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today announced that it has completed the previously announced sale of its Gulf of Mexico shelf assets to Apache Corporation for $1.05 billion, or approximately $840 million after tax. The agreement covers Devon's interests in approximately 150 blocks located offshore Texas, Louisiana and Alabama. The effective date of the sale was January 1, 2010.
During 2009, Devon's production from the Gulf of Mexico shelf was approximately 62 million cubic feet of natural gas and nine thousand barrels of liquids per day. As of December 31, 2009, Devon's reported estimated proved reserves associated with the shelf assets included 144 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 15 million barrels of liquids.
"This transaction, coupled with the recent close of the sale of our deepwater assets, essentially completes Devon's exit from the Gulf of Mexico," said John Richels, Devon's president and chief executive officer.
On November 16, 2009, Devon announced plans to divest its Gulf of Mexico and international assets to allow the company to focus on its world-class North American onshore assets. The divestiture proceeds are being allocated between the acceleration of development of Devon's North American onshore properties, debt reduction and share repurchases. Upon completion of the repositioning, Devon will emerge with even more liquidity and with one of the strongest balance sheets in its peer group.
The company has now announced the sale of the majority of the divestiture assets. Closing of its Panyu field offshore China is expected later this month, with the sale closings for the company's assets in Brazil and Azerbaijan to follow in the second half of the year. Data rooms for the remaining international assets are currently open. Devon expects the closings of all divestitures to be completed prior to year-end.
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is a leading U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For additional information, visit .
www.devonenergy.com
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future drilling and production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices; uncertainties inherent in estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; drilling risks; environmental risks; and political or regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are made as of the date of this press release, even if subsequently made available by Devon on its website or otherwise. Devon does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.2
Introduction
     On June 9, 2010, Devon Energy Corporation ("Devon") completed the sale of its shallow water oil and gas assets in the Gulf of Mexico to Apache Corporation. The sale price was $1.05 billion before taxes, or approximately $840 million after taxes, based on an effective date of January 1, 2010. Pursuant to the terms of the purchase and sale agreement, the proceeds were subject to additional purchase price adjustments which consisted primarily of net cash flow subsequent to the effective date of the sale. As a result of such purchase price adjustments, Devon received approximately $1.0 billion in net pre-tax proceeds at closing.
     Devon's historical financial statements include amounts related to the assets sold to Apache, as well as amounts related to our other Gulf of Mexico assets that we have sold in 2010. With the completion of the Apache divestiture, Devon has essentially divested all its assets in the Gulf of Mexico. Devon is required to provide pro forma financial information with respect to the Apache divestiture transaction, but not the other divestiture transactions. However, Devon believes pro forma financial information prepared with respect to all its 2010 Gulf of Mexico divestiture transactions is more useful to investors because such information reflects Devon's continuing operations, excluding all Gulf of Mexico divestiture assets. Therefore, although not required, Devon has prepared the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to all 2010 Gulf of Mexico divestiture transactions.
     The Gulf of Mexico divestitures generated $4.0 billion in proceeds, or $3.2 billion after taxes. Devon is also in the process of divesting all of its international assets located outside North America. The sales of these international assets are expected to generate approximately $6 billion in proceeds, or approximately $5 billion after taxes. Devon intends to use its divestiture proceeds to reduce debt, repurchase shares of its common stock and fund North American Onshore exploration and development opportunities. However, the pro forma adjustments in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements assume the proceeds were only used to repay outstanding commercial paper, redeem early $350 million of 7.25% senior notes due in 2011 and fund a $500 million joint-venture investment in the Pike (previously named Kirby) oil sands in Alberta, Canada.
     The adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are based on currently available information and certain estimates and assumptions. Therefore, actual results may differ from the pro forma adjustments. However, management believes that the estimates and assumptions used provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects of Devon's Gulf of Mexico divestiture transactions. Management also believes the pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to the estimates and assumptions and are applied in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not assert to present Devon's results of operations had the sale been completed at the dates indicated. In addition, they do not project Devon's results of operations for any future period.
 
 
 
 
1. Basis of Presentation
     The historical condensed balance sheet as of March 31, 2010 and historical condensed statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2010 is derived from and should be read in conjunction with Devon's unaudited financial statements in its March 31, 2010 Form 10-Q, which was filed on May 6, 2010. The historical condensed statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 is derived from and should be read in conjunction with Devon's audited financial statements in its December 31, 2009 Form 10-K, which was filed on February 25, 2010.
     The Gulf of Mexico divestiture transactions closed at different times from February to June 2010. For the transactions that closed prior to March 31, 2010, no pro forma adjustments are needed in the accompanying balance sheet. For the transactions that closed subsequent to March 31, 2010, the pro forma adjustments in the accompanying balance sheet have been prepared assuming the divestitures were completed on March 31, 2010. The pro forma adjustments in the accompanying statements of operations have been prepared assuming all the Gulf of Mexico divestitures were completed on January 1, 2009. The pro forma financial statements do not purport to be indicative of Devon's financial position or results of operations that would have actually occurred had the Gulf of Mexico divestitures occurred on the indicated dates, nor are they necessarily indicative of future results.
2. Pro Forma Adjustments and Assumptions
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements give pro forma effect to the following items:
     (a) Reflects the closing of the Apache divestiture transaction, including the receipt of $992 million in proceeds, net of selling costs and closing adjustments, and the elimination of the associated net assets as of March 31, 2010.
     Under full cost accounting rules, sales or other dispositions of oil and gas properties are generally accounted for as adjustments to capitalized costs, with no recognition of gain or loss. However, if not recognizing a gain or loss on the disposition would otherwise significantly alter the relationship between a cost center's remaining capitalized costs and proved reserves, then a gain or loss must be recognized. The Apache divestiture will not significantly alter such relationship for Devon's United States cost center. Therefore, Devon will not recognize a financial gain in connection with the Apache divestiture.
     (b) Reflects the Gulf of Mexico deepwater divestiture transactions that closed subsequent to March 31, 2010. The adjustment reflects the receipt of $1.757 billion in aggregate proceeds, net of selling costs and closing adjustments, and the elimination of the associated net assets as of March 31, 2010.
     Similar to the Apache divestiture transaction, Devon will not recognize financial gains in connection with the deepwater divestitures.
     (c) In connection with the divestitures described in (b) above, Devon intends to initiate a heavy oil joint venture to operate and develop the Pike oil sands leases in Alberta, Canada. This adjustment reflects Devon's $500 million acquisition of a 50 percent interest in the joint venture, which is expected to close on or before June 30, 2010.
     As part of the joint venture arrangement, Devon will fund $150 million of capital costs on the other interest owner's behalf according to a non-interest bearing promissory note. This adjustment also reflects the $142 million net present value of the $150 million promissory note.
     (d) Devon intends to use divestiture proceeds to reduce debt, repurchase up to $3.5 billion of its common shares and fund North American Onshore exploration and development opportunities, including the Pike oil sands joint venture described in (c) above.
     This adjustment reflects the repayment of $240 million of outstanding commercial paper borrowings. This adjustment also reflects a $390 million payment to redeem $350 million of 7.25% senior notes. Devon expects to redeem the senior notes on June 25, 2010, which is prior to their scheduled maturity in 2011. The $390 million payment is applied to principal of $350 million, unamortized premium of $10 million, accrued interest payable of
 
$13 million and a make-whole premium of $17 million in the pro forma adjustment. The adjustment also reflects the elimination of a $4 million deferred tax asset related to the senior notes.
     No adjustment is reflected for the $3.5 billion of planned share repurchases.
     (e) Reflects the elimination of operating revenues, operating expenses and capitalized interest expense with respect to the oil and gas properties that were sold to Apache.
     (f) Reflects the elimination of operating revenues, operating expenses and capitalized interest expense with respect to the deepwater Gulf of Mexico oil and gas properties that were sold.
     (g) Reflects imputed interest expense associated with the non-interest bearing promissory note described in (c) above.
     (h) Reflects the adjustment to depreciation, depletion and amortization of oil and gas properties ("DD&A"), assuming the Gulf of Mexico divestitures had closed on January 1, 2009. Pro forma DD&A reflects decreases in amortizable costs, proved reserves and production related to the divestiture properties. In the first quarter of 2009, Devon recognized a reduction of carrying value of its United States oil and gas properties that resulted from the March 31, 2009 ceiling test ("ceiling writedown"). Pro forma DD&A also reflects an increase in amortizable costs for the portion of the ceiling writedown that related to the divestiture properties. The following schedule provides the pro forma DD&A rates and production used to calculate pro forma DD&A expense for each period presented.
     (i) Reflects the elimination of general and administrative expenses ("G&A") with respect to the Gulf of Mexico properties that were sold. The following schedule provides the components of pro forma G&A for each period presented.
     (j) Reflects the elimination of restructuring costs recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009 in connection with the Gulf of Mexico divestitures.
     (k) Reflects the reduction of interest expense, assuming the debt repayments described in (d) above occurred on January 1, 2009.
 
     (l) Reflects the proportionate elimination of the ceiling writedown recognized in the first quarter of 2009 related to the divestiture properties.
     (m) Reflects decreases to current income tax expense and increases to deferred income tax expense related to the elimination of operating revenues, operating expenses and capitalized interest expense described in (e) above.
     (n) Reflects decreases to current and deferred income tax expense related to the elimination of operating revenues, operating expenses and capitalized interest expense described in (f) above and related to the imputed interest expense described in (g) above.
     (o) Reflects an increase to current income tax expense and a decrease to deferred income tax expense, with the corresponding changes to income taxes payable and deferred tax liabilities, due to a taxable gain resulting from the Apache divestiture transaction.
     (p) Reflects an increase to current income tax expense and a decrease to deferred income tax expense, with the corresponding changes to income taxes payable and deferred tax liabilities, due to taxable gains resulting from the Gulf of Mexico deepwater divestiture transactions that closed subsequent to March 31, 2010.
     (q) For the Gulf of Mexico deepwater divestiture transactions that closed prior to March 31, 2010, Devon recognized an increase to current income tax expense and a decrease to deferred tax expense associated with the taxable gains in the first quarter of 2010. These pro forma adjustments transfer such income tax effects from the first quarter of 2010 to the year ended 2009.
     (r) Reflects the impact to current and deferred income tax expense as a result of the pro forma adjustments described in (h), (i), (j), (k) and (l) above.


