FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20100217103650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its news release dated February 17, 2010 announcing 2009 full-year and fourth quarter financial results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
          
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: February 17, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
DEVON ENERGY REPORTS 2009 FINANCIAL RESULTS, RECORD PRODUCTION AND RECORD PROVED RESERVES
 Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported 2009 full-year and fourth-quarter financial results. The company also reported that its 2009 full-year oil and gas production from continuing operations reached an all-time high. In addition, Devon reported record-high proved oil and natural gas reserves at December 31, 2009. Production and changes to proved reserves are discussed in more detail later in this report.
OKLAHOMA CITY  February 17, 2010
For the year ended December 31, 2009, Devon reported a net loss of $2.5 billion, or $5.58 per common share ($5.58 per diluted common share). Devon's 2009 financial results were impacted by certain items securities analysts typically exclude from their published estimates. The most significant of these items was a $4.2 billion after-tax reduction of the carrying value of oil and gas properties recorded in the first quarter of 2009. This was the result of a non-cash, full-cost ceiling adjustment. The charge resulted from application of the ceiling test as prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission for companies that follow the full-cost method of accounting.
Excluding the reduction of carrying value of oil and gas properties and other adjusting items, Devon earned $1.8 billion or $4.03 per diluted common share in 2009. The adjusting items are discussed in more detail later in this news release.
For the year ended December 31, 2008, Devon reported a net loss of $2.1 billion, or $4.85 per common share ($4.85 per diluted common share). The company's 2008 financial results included a $7.1 billion non-cash, after-tax reduction in the carrying value of oil and gas properties.
Devon reported net earnings of $667 million, or $1.50 per common share ($1.49 per diluted common share), for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. Excluding adjusting items, the company earned $713 million, or $1.60 per diluted common share in the fourth quarter of 2009.
For the quarter ended December 31, 2008, Devon reported a net loss of $6.8 billion or, $15.42 per common share ($15.42 per diluted common share).
North American Onshore Proved Reserves at Record 2.6 Billion Boe;
Drill-Bit Reserve Additions More than Double Record Production
"2009 was a pivotal year for Devon as we began repositioning the company to focus entirely on our high-return, North American onshore natural gas and oil portfolio," commented J. Larry Nichols, chairman and chief executive officer. "We grew North American onshore production by more than six percent in 2009 and replaced more than twice our production with the drill bit at very attractive costs. We expect to receive after-tax proceeds of $4.5 billion to $7.5 billion as we divest our offshore and international properties this year. This will further strengthen our rock-solid balance sheet and enable us to accelerate growth across our U.S. and Canadian asset base."
 
In accordance with accounting standards, Devon's year-end reserve reporting pertains to the company's continuing operations, which include its Gulf of Mexico properties. Following is a discussion of proved reserves pertaining only to Devon's North American onshore assets.
Devon increased North American onshore estimated proved reserves by 20 percent to a record 2,641 million oil-equivalent barrels (Boe) at December 31, 2009. The company added 669 million Boe to its North American onshore proved reserves from all sources. Costs incurred applicable to North American onshore properties were $3.3 billion.
Successful drilling (extensions, discoveries and performance revisions) accounted for 492 million Boe of North American onshore proved reserve additions. The company invested $3.2 billion of associated drill-bit capital during the year. Revisions related to changes in oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices increased 2009 North American onshore proved reserves by 176 million Boe.
North American onshore oil and gas production increased more than six percent to 220 million Boe in 2009. The reserve life index (proved reserves divided by annual production) for the North American onshore properties is approximately 12 years.
Proved developed reserves of 1,869 million Boe at December 31, 2009, represented 71 percent of total North American onshore proved reserves. Proved undeveloped reserves were 29 percent of the total. Year-end North American onshore proved reserves included 653 million barrels of crude oil, 9.4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 419 million barrels of natural gas liquids.
Costs Incurred and Reserves Summary
(1)
 
Drill-bit Capital and Reserves Summary
(1)
Divestitures Make Way for North American Onshore Growth
The company plans to direct the proceeds of the divestitures of its Gulf of Mexico and international properties to its U.S. and Canadian onshore operations and to retire debt. In accordance with accounting standards, Devon has reclassified the assets, liabilities and results of its international operations as discontinued operations for all accounting periods presented in this release. Although revenues and expenses for prior periods were reclassified, there was no impact upon previously reported net earnings. Included with the financial information that follows are tables of revenues, expenses, production, proved reserves and costs incurred and the amounts reclassified as discontinued operations for each period presented.
In spite of Devon's plans to divest its Gulf of Mexico assets, these properties do not qualify as discontinued operations under accounting standards. However, information is provided in this release
 
that will enable the reader to isolate certain results of the company's North American onshore operations.
Shale Gas Development and Jackfish Ramp-up Led 2009 Operating Highlights
Devon drilled 1,135 wells in 2009 applicable to its continuing operations with a 99 percent success rate. Following are operational highlights and updates for selected exploration and development projects:
Continuing Operations Show Strong Production Growth
Combined oil, gas and natural gas liquids production from continuing operations averaged 639 thousand Boe per day in 2009. This compares with 2008 average daily production of 610 thousand Boe per day.
Sharp declines in the average prices of oil, gas and natural gas liquids led to a 48 percent reduction in combined sales from continuing operations. Comparable sales for the years 2009 and 2008 were $6.1 billion and $11.7 billion, respectively. Furthermore, marketing and midstream operating profit decreased 25 percent to $512 million in 2009, reflecting lower prices for natural gas and natural gas liquids.
Cash Flow Totals $4.7 Billion
Cash flow before balance sheet changes decreased 50 percent to $4.7 billion in 2009. During the year Devon funded $5.1 billion of capital expenditures and paid $284 million in dividends utilizing cash flow and short-term borrowing. In spite of the increase in short-term borrowing, Devon's balance sheet remains strong with a ratio of net debt to adjusted capitalization of 29 percent. Reconciliations of cash flow before balance sheet changes, net debt and adjusted capitalization, which are non-GAAP measures, are provided in this release.
 
Items Excluded from Published Earnings Estimates
Devon's reported net earnings include items of income and expense that are typically excluded by securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. These items and their effects upon reported earnings for the full year and fourth quarter of 2009 were as follows:
Items affecting continuing operations:
Items affecting discontinued operations:
The following tables summarize the full-year and fourth-quarter effects of these items on 2009 earnings, income taxes and cash flow.
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts (in millions)
Continuing Operations  Full Year 2009
 
Discontinued Operations  Full Year 2009
In aggregate, these items decreased full-year 2009 net earnings by $4.3 billion, or $9.63 per common share ($9.61 per diluted share). These items and their associated tax effects decreased full-year 2009 cash flow before balance sheet changes by $38 million.
Summary of Items Typically Excluded by Securities Analysts (in millions)
Continuing Operations  Fourth Quarter 2009
Discontinued Operations  Fourth Quarter 2009
In aggregate, these items decreased fourth-quarter 2009 net earnings by $46 million, or 10 cents per common share (11 cents per diluted share). These items and their associated tax effects decreased fourth-quarter 2009 cash flow before balance sheet changes by $57 million.
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
Devon will discuss its 2009 financial and operating results in a conference call webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). The webcast may be accessed from Devon's internet home page at .
www.devonenergy.com
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future drilling and production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices; uncertainties inherent in estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; drilling risks; environmental risks; and political or regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are made as of the date of this press release, even if subsequently made available by Devon on its website or otherwise. Devon does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Effective January 1, 2010, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved, probable and possible reserves that meet the SEC's definitions for such terms, and price and cost sensitivities for such reserves, and prohibits disclosure of resources that do not constitute
 
such reserves. This release may contain certain terms, such as resource potential and exploration target size. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved, probable and possible reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized. The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including these estimates in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, available from us at Devon Energy Corporation, Attn. Investor Relations, 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102. You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
.
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is a leading U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at .
www.devonenergy.com
 
Excludes discontinued operations
PRODUCTION (net of royalties)
 
BENCHMARK PRICES
(average prices)
REALIZED PRICES
(excludes the effects of unrealized gains and losses from hedging)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
RESERVES RECONCILIATION
 
COSTS INCURRED (in millions)
Devon capitalizes certain general and administrative expenses related to property acquisition, exploration and development activities. These capitalized expenses were $332 million and $337 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Devon also capitalizes certain interest expenses related to property acquisition, exploration and development activities. These capitalized expenses were $74 million and $71 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These capitalized general and administrative expenses and interest expenses are included in the costs shown in the preceding tables.
 
DRILLING ACTIVITY
COMPANY OPERATED RIGS
 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions)
Quarter Ended December 31, 2009
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 
PRODUCTION FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
STATEMENTS OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
(in millions)
RESERVES DATA FOR DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
COSTS INCURRED FOR DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
(in millions)
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon concerning Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles.) The company must reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is a Non-GAAP financial measure. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to fund the company's capital expenditures, dividends and to service its debt. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is also used by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's financial results.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
(in millions)
Devon believes that using net debt for the calculation of "net debt to adjusted capitalization" provides a better measure than using debt. Devon defines net debt as debt less cash and cash equivalents. Devon believes that because cash and cash equivalents can be used to repay indebtedness, netting cash and cash equivalents against debt provides a clearer picture of the future demands on cash to repay debt.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
Drill-bit capital is defined as costs incurred less proved acquisition costs, unproved acquisition costs resulting from business combinations and other significant similar transactions. Drill-bit capital is a Non-GAAP measure. Devon believes drill-bit capital is relevant because it provides additional insight into costs associated with current year exploration and development activities. It should be noted that the actual costs of reserves added through Devon's drilling program will differ, sometimes significantly, from the direct comparison of capital spent and reserves added in any given period due to the timing of capital expenditures and reserve bookings. Certain securities analysts also use this methodology to measure Devon's performance.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
(in millions)


