FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20110217123920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On February 11, 2011 Mr. J. Todd Mitchell notified the Company of his intention to not stand for re-election to the Board of Directors of Devon Energy Corporation. Mr. Mitchell advised the Company that his decision is based on a desire to focus on his family and his business interests and confirmed that it does not relate to any issues regarding the Company's financial disclosures, accounting matters or other business issues. Mr. Mitchell will serve out his term which is scheduled to expire at the June 8, 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
Date: February 17, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
DEVON ENERGY ANNOUNCES CHANGE TO ITS BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OKLAHOMA CITY  February 17, 2011  Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported that J. Todd Mitchell will not stand for reelection to the company's board of directors at the expiration of his current term. Mr. Mitchell's decision was based on his desire to devote more time to his family and the increased demands on his time from his active role in his family enterprise. He will fulfill his term through the annual shareholders meeting on June 8, 2011.
"My tenure on Devon's board has been a great experience," commented Mr. Mitchell. "I hold the company's board of directors and management team in the highest regard, and I look forward to continuing my relationship with the company as a shareholder."
"Todd's valuable insight and keen business acumen have contributed to Devon's success during his nine year tenure," said Larry Nichols, Devon's Executive Chairman. "We owe Todd a debt of gratitude for his service and we will miss him deeply."
Mr. Mitchell has served on Devon's board since 2002. Todd Mitchell currently serves as president of Two Seven Ventures LLC, a private energy investment company. Prior to that Mr. Mitchell served as president of GPM Inc., a family-owned investment company, from 1998 to 2006, and as vice president for strategic planning from 2006 to 2007. He was on the board of directors of Mitchell Energy & Development Corporation from 1993 to 2002.
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is a leading U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For additional information, visit .
www.devonenergy.com


