FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20120502082854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Devon Energy Corporation hereby furnishes the information set forth in its news release dated May 2, 2012 announcing 2012 first quarter financial results, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 2, 2012
 

 
DEVON ENERGY EARNS $393 MILLION IN FIRST-QUARTER 2012; OIL PRODUCTION INCREASES 26 PERCENT
OKLAHOMA CITYMay 2, 2012Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) today reported net earnings of $393 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, or $0.97 per common share ($0.97 per diluted share). This compares with first-quarter 2011 net earnings of $416 million, or $0.97 per common share ($0.97 per diluted share).
Devon's first-quarter 2012 financial results were impacted by certain items securities analysts typically exclude from their published estimates. Adjusting for these items, the company earned $427 million or $1.05 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2012. The adjusting items are discussed in more detail later in this news release.
Devon's first-quarter 2012 earnings were significantly affected by unusually wide Canadian oil price differentials. Following the end of the quarter, Canadian oil differentials have begun to normalize.
Strong Oil Growth Drives Record Production
Total production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids averaged 694,000 oil-equivalent barrels (Boe) per day in the first quarter of 2012. This is the highest daily production rate in history from the company's North American onshore properties and represents a 10 percent increase compared to the year-ago quarter. Record production from the company's cornerstone development properties, including the Permian Basin, Jackfish, Cana-Woodford and Barnett Shale, drove the strong first quarter performance.
Devon's first quarter liquids production increased for the sixth consecutive quarter to 256,000 Boe per day. This growth was led by a 26 percent year-over-year increase in oil production.
Sales of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, before the impact of hedges, increased 3 percent to $1.9 billion in the first quarter of 2012. Cash settlements related to oil and natural gas hedges increased revenues by $158 million or $2.50 per Boe in the first-quarter 2012.
Marketing and midstream operating profit was $112 million in the first quarter of 2012. This was a 7 percent decrease compared with the first-quarter 2011. The decrease was attributable to lower natural gas and natural gas liquids prices.
Permian Basin Activity and Production Growth Lead Operating Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cost Containment Efforts Partially Offset Rising Costs
First-quarter 2012 expenses increased compared to the year-ago quarter due to rising oilfield service and supply costs. Compared to the first quarter of 2011, the company's total pre-tax cash costs increased 5 percent to $13.80 per Boe. The company's successful cost management efforts and efficient operations partially offset the full impact of industry inflation and a shift towards oil projects. In general, oil projects are more expensive to develop and have higher operating costs than gas production.
Lease operating expenses (LOE) were $514 million in the first quarter. On a unit of production basis, LOE increased 9 percent compared with the first-quarter 2011 and was 2 percent higher than the fourth-quarter 2011. The increase in LOE reflects rising industry costs coupled with increased activity levels in oil-focused basins.
Taxes other than income decreased 6 percent to $102 million in the first quarter of 2012. The year-over-year decrease was driven by lower ad valorem and production taxes.
Interest expense for the first quarter totaled $87 million, a $6 million increase over the first quarter of 2011. Higher average debt balances drove the increase.
First-quarter general and administrative expenses were $168 million, or $2.67 per Boe. This compares with $2.29 per Boe in the first quarter of 2011. Higher personnel costs were the largest contributor to the increase. Devon has increased the size of its workforce to support its expanding exploration and development activity.
Compared with the first-quarter 2011, depreciation, depletion and amortization expense (DD&A) increased 21 percent to $10.78 per Boe. Inflation in industry costs and increased investment in oil-focused projects drove DD&A expense higher.
 
Balance Sheet and Liquidity Remain Strong
In the first quarter of 2012, Devon generated cash flow before balance sheet changes of $1.4 billion. On a per share basis, this represents a 3 percent increase in cash flow compared to the first-quarter 2011. At March 31, 2012, the company's cash and short-term investments totaled $7.1 billion, and its net debt to adjusted capitalization was 15 percent.
Devon Adds Oil and Gas Hedges in 2012 and 2013
The strong oil price environment has provided Devon the opportunity to add attractive oil hedges for 2013. The company has entered into various swap and collar contracts to hedge 72,000 barrels per day of oil production. Of this total, 31,000 barrels per day are swapped at a weighted average price of $104 per barrel. The remaining 41,000 barrels per day utilize costless collars with a weighted average ceiling of $117 per barrel and a floor of $91 per barrel. For the remainder of 2012, the company has 109,000 barrels per day of oil production hedged, or roughly 70 percent of forecasted oil production, at a weighted average floor price of $95 per barrel.
The company has also recently bolstered its natural gas hedging position. For the remaining three quarters of 2012, Devon has approximately 1 billion cubic feet per day protected at a weighted average floor price of $4.42 per thousand cubic feet. This represents about 40 percent of Devon's 2012 forecasted gas production.
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
Pursuant to regulatory disclosure requirements, Devon is required to reconcile non-GAAP financial measures to the related GAAP information (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles). Cash flow before balance sheet changes, net debt and adjusted capitalization are non-GAAP financial measures referenced within this release. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures are provided on page 11.
Items Excluded from Published Earnings Estimates
Devon's reported net earnings include items of income and expense that are typically excluded by securities analysts in their published estimates of the company's financial results. The following tables summarize the first-quarter 2012 effects of these items on earnings and cash flow.
 
Conference Call to be Webcast Today
Devon will discuss its first-quarter 2012 financial and operating results in a conference call webcast today. The webcast will begin at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). The webcast may be accessed from Devon's internet home page at
www.devonenergy.com.
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements are those concerning strategic plans, expectations and objectives for future operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such
 
statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the company. Statements regarding future drilling and production are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. These risks include, but are not limited to the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices; uncertainties inherent in estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; drilling risks; environmental risks; and political or regulatory changes. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are made as of the date of this press release, even if subsequently made available by Devon on its website or otherwise. Devon does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
.
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved, probable and possible reserves that meet the SEC's definitions for such terms, and price and cost sensitivities for such reserves, and prohibits disclosure of resources that do not constitute such reserves. This release may contain certain terms, such as resource potential and exploration target size. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved, probable and possible reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized. The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including these estimates in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, available from us at Devon Energy Corporation, Attn. Investor Relations, 333 West Sheridan, Oklahoma City, OK 73102. You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
Devon Energy Corporation is an Oklahoma City-based independent energy company engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. Devon is a leading U.S.-based independent oil and gas producer and is included in the S&P 500 Index. For more information about Devon, please visit our website at
www.devonenergy.com.
 
PRODUCTION (net of royalties)
 
 
BENCHMARK PRICES
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
COMPANY OPERATED RIGS
 
KEY OPERATING STATISTICS BY REGION
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements for public companies such as Devon concerning Non-GAAP financial measures. (GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles). The company must reconcile the Non-GAAP financial measure to related GAAP information. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is a Non-GAAP financial measure. Devon believes cash flow before balance sheet changes is relevant because it is a measure of cash available to fund the company's capital expenditures, dividends and to service its debt. Cash flow before balance sheet changes is also used by certain securities analysts as a measure of Devon's financial results.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
 
Devon believes that using net debt for the calculation of "net debt to adjusted capitalization" provides a better measure than using debt. Devon defines net debt as debt less cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Devon believes that netting these sources of cash against debt provides a clearer picture of the future demands on cash to repay debt.
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
 
 


