FILE:DVN/DVN-8K-20121107120853.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
Information Regarding Forward-Looking Estimates
Our original 2012 forward-looking estimates are included in our Form 8-K filed on February 15, 2012. These estimates were based on our examination of historical operating trends, the information used to prepare our December 31, 2011, reserve reports and other data in our possession or available from third parties. Subsequently, we updated certain of our capital and operating metrics at an analyst conference in April 2012, during our first quarter 2012 earnings call in May 2012 and in our Form 8-K filed on August 1, 2012.
Based on our examination of historical operating trends during the first three quarters of 2012, we are further updating certain of our fourth quarter 2012 estimates. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Consequently, actual future results could differ materially from our expectations due to a number of factors, such as changes in the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs and related products and services; exploration or drilling programs; political or regulatory events; general economic and financial market conditions; and other factors discussed in this report.
All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Devon, or persons acting on its behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements. We assume no duty to update or revise our forward-looking statements based on new information, future events or otherwise.
Financial amounts related to our Canadian operations in the following tables have been converted to U.S. dollars using estimated average exchange rates of $1.00 Canadian dollar to $1.00 U.S. dollar.
Oil, Gas and NGL Production and Prices
We estimate that our combined fourth quarter 2012 oil, gas and NGL production will total 670 to 680 MBoepd. Set forth below are our estimates of oil, gas and NGL production per day.
 
We expect our fourth quarter floating prices for production from each of our operating areas to differ from the NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The price for oil and the NGLs relationship to crude oil is determined using the monthly average of NYMEX settled prices on each trading day for benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude oil delivered at Cushing, Oklahoma. The NYMEX price for gas is determined using the first-of-month South Louisiana Henry Hub price index as published monthly in .
Inside FERC
 
 
Commodity Price Risk Management
As of October 31, 2012, we had the following oil derivative positions associated with fourth quarter 2012 production. Our oil derivatives settle against the average of the prompt month NYMEX West Texas Intermediate futures price.
 
 
As of October 31, 2012, we had the following natural gas derivative positions associated with fourth quarter 2012 production. Our natural gas derivatives settle against the first of the month Henry Hub index.
Inside FERC
 
Other Operating Items
The following table includes estimates of other revenue and expense items associated with our fourth quarter operations, as well as our quarterly dividend rate. The other expense, net estimate consists of accretion of asset retirement obligations, interest rate swap settlements, interest income and other miscellaneous items.
 
Interest Rate Risk Management
As of October 31, 2012, we had fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps as follows.
 
 
Capital Expenditures
The table below includes our estimates for our fourth quarter capital expenditures.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 7, 2012
 


