FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20020724185501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) July 24, 2002 ------------- BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
New Jersey 001-4802 22-0760120 - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other juris- (Commission (IRS Employer Iden- diction of incorporation) File Number) tification Number) 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880 - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (201) 847-6800 -------------- N/A - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former addresses if changed since last report.)
Item 5. OTHER EVENTS On July 24, 2002 the Registrant announced in a press release its results for the third quarter ended June 30, 2002. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. Item 7. Financial Statements. Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated July 24, 2002 announcing the financial results for the third quarter ended June 30, 2002. 1
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY (Registrant) By: /s/ Kathleen M. Gibson ----------------------- Kathleen M. Gibson Assistant Secretary Date: July 24, 2002 2
INDEX TO EXHIBITS -----------------

Contact: - -------- Dean J. Paranicas/Investor Relations - 201-847-7102 Charles A. Borgognoni/Corporate Communications - 201-847-6651 BD ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR FISCAL THIRD QUARTER Franklin Lakes, NJ (July 24, 2002) - BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported quarterly revenues of $998 million for the fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2002, an increase of 6 percent from the same period a year ago. "We are pleased with our performance, paced by solid increases in sales of our safety-engineered products, prefillable drug delivery devices, and BD Biosciences immunology/cell biology reagents and Discovery Labware products," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We remain on track to achieve our full-year performance objectives." Diluted earnings per share were 44 cents for the third quarter. Included in third quarter earnings per share was a special charge of 4 cents recorded primarily in connection with the previously announced manufacturing restructuring in the BD Medical Systems segment. In addition, operating earnings included one cent of other manufacturing costs related to the restructuring that are reflected in cost of products sold. Excluding the special charge of 4 cents, diluted earnings per share would be 48 cents. Q3 Segment Results - ------------------ In the BD Medical Systems segment, worldwide revenues of $544 million increased 7 percent. Included in BD Medical Systems revenues were U.S. safety-engineered product sales of $88 million, versus $66 million in the prior year's quarter. Also contributing to the growth of the segment were sales of prefillable drug delivery devices, which grew 20 percent. The overall growth rate in the segment was offset in part by reduced sales of conventional devices in the U.S. due to the transition to safety-engineered devices and by lower Consumer Health Care sales.
Within Consumer Health Care, recording of sales of diabetes syringes in the U.S. is deferred until these products are sold by the Company's distribution channel partners to their end customers. In determining the amount of sales to be recorded each quarter, the Company relies upon independent sales and inventory data from its distribution channel partners. In the third quarter, one distribution channel partner reported that it held a higher level of inventory than it had previously reported to the Company. Accordingly, reported sales of diabetes syringes were negatively impacted by approximately $8 million. Sales by distribution channel partners to their end customers increased in line with the Company's expectations in the third quarter. In the BD Clinical Laboratory Solutions segment, worldwide revenues increased 5 percent to $298 million. Revenue growth of 11 percent in the Preanalytical Solutions portion of the segment was attributable primarily to U.S. safety-engineered device sales, which were $57 million, versus $43 million in the prior year's quarter. These results were partly offset by reduced sales of conventional devices due, in large part, to the transition to safety-engineered devices. In addition, worldwide sales of the Diagnostic Systems portion of the segment declined by 2 percent. As discussed in the second quarter press release, U.S. distributors had stocked inventory in advance of the installation by Diagnostic Systems of a new enterprise resource planning system. This inventory stocking adversely impacted revenue growth in the third quarter. In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues grew 3 percent to $156 million. Revenue growth was driven by strong sales of immunology/cell biology reagents (Pharmingen) and Discovery Labware products, which together represent slightly less than half of BD Biosciences' worldwide revenues. Molecular biology reagent (Clontech) revenues decreased versus the prior year's quarter due to continued weakness in some portions of the molecular biology market, largely due to an industry shift from early stage drug target identification to later stage drug development. In response to these developments, BD Biosciences has adjusted its related workforce and redirected its research and development efforts toward later stage drug development products. Softness in pharmaceutical research and development and related capital spending, coupled with the timing of certain instrument installations that are anticipated to occur in the fourth quarter, resulted in essentially flat revenues from flow cytometry instruments and reagents (Immunocytometry Systems) in the quarter. Q3 Geographic Results - --------------------- On a geographic basis, third quarter revenues in the U.S. increased 4 percent to $532 million. Revenues outside the U.S. of $466 million grew 7 percent. At constant foreign exchange rates, revenues outside the U.S. grew 9 percent. Nine-month Results - ------------------ For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2002, reported revenues were $2.956 billion, a 7 percent increase over a year ago, or 8 percent at constant foreign exchange rates. Diluted earnings per share for the nine-month period were $1.29, or $1.35 excluding the special charges primarily relating to the manufacturing restructuring, and reflect an approximate 7 1/2 cent benefit from the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." For the same period in fiscal 2001, diluted earnings per share were $1.14, before the cumulative effect of an accounting change.
Restructuring and Divestitures - ------------------------------ In connection with the manufacturing restructuring, the Company recorded a special charge of approximately $12 million, or 4 cents per share, in the third quarter. Included in this amount was the reversal of approximately $4 million of special charges recorded in fiscal 2000, primarily resulting from lower than anticipated employee severance. As expected, ongoing operating results in the third quarter reflect the impact of other manufacturing restructuring costs included in cost of products sold, which reduced earnings per share by approximately one cent. The Company recorded a special charge of approximately $10 million, or two cents per share, in the second quarter of fiscal 2002 associated with this restructuring program. On April 8, 2002 the Company entered into a non-binding letter of intent with Aortech International plc ("Aortech") to sell its critical care product line. As previously indicated, several important actions must occur, including the execution of a definitive purchase agreement and the approval of Aortech's Board of Directors and shareholders, before the sale can be completed. Assuming these actions are completed, the Company would record a substantially non-cash loss on sale (pre-tax), currently estimated to be in the $35 to $40 million range. Fiscal 2002 Outlook - ------------------- The Company continues to expect diluted earnings per share to be approximately $1.88 for fiscal 2002 and approximately 53 cents for the fourth quarter, excluding the special charges and loss on the potential sale of the Critical Care product line. The following table analyzes the estimated reported earnings per share for fiscal 2002: (A) These amounts include the previously announced favorable impact from the elimination of goodwill amortization under SFAS No. 142 of approximately $0.10 per share for the full year, or $0.025 per quarter. (B) Recorded to cost of products sold. (C) Does not include estimated loss on potential sale of Critical Care product line. BD is a medical technology company that serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. BD manufactures and sells a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2001, BD reported total revenues of $3.8 billion. ***
This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding the Company's performance, including future revenues, products and income, or events or developments that the Company expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of the Company and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. Factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; uncertainties of litigation; the Company's ability to achieve sales and earnings forecasts, which are based on sales volume and product mix assumptions, to achieve its cost savings objectives, and to achieve anticipated synergies and other cost savings in connection with acquisitions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; increases in energy costs; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in the Company's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; delays in product introductions; and changes in health care or other governmental regulation, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements. *** BD's news releases can be found on its website at www.bd.com or through Business Wire at www.businesswire.com. A conference call with analysts regarding this news release will be broadcast live on BD's website at 8:30 a.m. EDT Thursday, July 25, 2002. The conference call will be available for playback on BD's website or at 1-800-945-3063 through the close of business on August 1, 2002.
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data) NM - Not Meaningful See page 3 for Notes to Consolidated Income Statements. Page 1
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data) NM - Not Meaningful See page 3 for Notes to Consolidated Income Statements. Page 2
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS Nine Months Ended June 30, 2002 Fiscal 2002 revenues included hedging costs of approximately $3.1 million for the third quarter and $7.0 million for the nine months, compared with $0.4 million and $8.6 million, respectively, in fiscal 2001. These costs related to BD's purchased option contracts to hedge a portion of its anticipated sales from the United States to non-U.S. customers. Hedging costs of approximately $8.1 million for the first six months of fiscal 2001 were recorded in Other Expense under previous accounting guidance. This amount has been reclassed to revenues. Also included in revenues were gains on purchased option and forward contracts recorded in revenues in fiscal 2002 of approximately $1.3 million for the third quarter and $4.4 million for the nine months compared with $4.0 million and $8.1 million, respectively, in fiscal 2001. BD adopted the provisions of Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements," (SAB 101) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001,retroactive to October 1, 2000. Prior year amounts have been restated to reflect this adoption. A complete discussion of this accounting change can be found in BD's 2001 annual report on Form 10-K. Effective October 1, 2001, BD adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which, among other things, eliminates the requirement to amortize goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The Company currently estimates the full year impact to earnings per share to be approximately 10 cents or 2.5 cents per quarter. Page 3
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 4
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND MAJOR PRODUCT GROUPS Three Months Ended June 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 5
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND MAJOR PRODUCT GROUPS Three Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 6
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND MAJOR PRODUCT GROUPS Nine Months Ended June 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 7
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND MAJOR PRODUCT GROUPS Nine Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 8


