FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20021106170720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) November 6, 2002 ---------------- BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
New Jersey 001-4802 22-0760120 - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other juris- (Commission (IRS Employer Iden- diction of incorporation) File Number) tification Number) 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880 - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (201) 847-6800 -------------- N/A - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former addresses if changed since last report.)
Item 5. OTHER EVENTS On November 6, 2002 the Registrant announced in a press release its results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2002. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. Item 7. Financial Statements. Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated November 6, 2002 announcing the financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2002. 1
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY (Registrant) By: /s/ Gary DeFazio ----------------------- Gary DeFazio Assistant Secretary Date: November 6, 2002 2
INDEX TO EXHIBITS ----------------- STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES The trademark symbol shall be expressed as...............................'TM'

Contact: Dean J. Paranicas/Investor Relations - 201-847-7102 Charles A. Borgognoni/Corporate Communications - 201-847-6651 BD ANNOUNCES RECORD FISCAL FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR REVENUES Franklin Lakes, NJ (November 6, 2002) - BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported record quarterly revenues of $1.077 billion for the fiscal fourth quarter ended September 30, 2002, an increase of 9 percent from the same period a year ago. For the full year, the Company reported record revenues of $4.033 billion, an 8 percent increase over a year ago. Diluted earnings per share were 50 cents for the fourth quarter, which included a charge of $13 million before taxes (recorded in "Other Expense") reflecting the non-cash write-down of two equity investments resulting from a decline in market values. Excluding the charge, diluted earnings per share would have been 53 cents. Diluted earnings per share for the full year of $1.79 also included special charges recorded in the second and third quarters totaling 6 cents per share, relating to the previously-announced manufacturing restructuring in the BD Medical Systems segment.
Results for fiscal 2002 also reflected a 10 cent benefit from the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Fiscal 2001 diluted earnings per share were 49 cents for the fourth quarter and $1.49 for the full year, which included a charge in the amount of 14 cents per share for the cumulative effect of an accounting change recorded in connection with the Company's adoption of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." "Our strategies aimed at accelerating top line growth and driving productivity are working. Revenue and earnings growth represent the achievement of the full year performance objectives we had communicated to our shareholders at the beginning of the year," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "These results reflect solid revenue performance from all three business segments, and in particular from our growth drivers. Safety-engineered product sales grew 38 percent to $573 million, prefillable drug delivery devices enjoyed a year of mid-teens growth, and BD Biosciences closed the year strongly. Our strong cash flow continues to be driven by our ongoing efforts to achieve greater operational effectiveness and even stronger balance sheet productivity."
Segment Results In the BD Medical Systems segment, worldwide revenues of $574 million increased 7 percent for the quarter. Included in these revenues were U.S. safety-engineered product sales of $103 million, versus $78 million in the prior year's quarter. Sales of safety-engineered products for the full year totaled $353 million, versus $253 million in the prior year. Also contributing to the growth of the segment were sales of prefillable drug delivery devices, which grew 9 percent in the quarter and 17 percent for the full year. The overall growth rate in the segment was partly offset by reduced sales of certain conventional devices in the U.S. due to the transition to safety-engineered devices. In the BD Clinical Laboratory Solutions segment, worldwide revenues increased 11 percent for the quarter to $326 million. Revenue growth of 10 percent in the Preanalytical Solutions portion of the segment was due to U.S. safety-engineered product sales, which were $64 million, versus $50 million in the prior year's quarter. Sales of safety-engineered products for the full year totaled $220 million, versus $163 million in the prior year. The overall growth rate of the Preanalytical Solutions portion of the segment was partly offset by reduced sales of certain conventional devices in the U.S. due to the transition to safety-engineered devices. Also contributing to the segment's performance were worldwide sales of the Diagnostic Systems portion of the segment, which increased by 11 percent, driven by strong worldwide performance of its molecular diagnostic platform, BD ProbeTec ET'TM'.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues grew 14 percent to $177 million for the quarter. Revenue growth was driven by strong sales of flow cytometry instruments and reagents (Immunocytometry Systems), immunology/cell biology reagents (Pharmingen), and Discovery Labware products. Molecular biology reagent (Clontech) revenues of $18 million decreased by approximately $2 million versus the prior year's quarter due to continued weakness in some portions of the molecular biology market, largely due to softness in pharmaceutical/biotech research and development spending, and a shift in pharmaceutical focus from early stage drug target identification to later stage drug development. BD Biosciences has refocused the Clontech research and development efforts toward producing a product portfolio aligned with changing customer focus, and has streamlined operations. Geographic Results On a geographic basis, fourth quarter revenues in the U.S. increased 8 percent to $590 million. Revenues outside the U.S. of $487 million grew 10 percent, or 7 percent at constant foreign exchange rates. For the full year, revenues in the U.S. increased 8 percent to $2.173 billion. Revenues of $1.860 billion outside the U.S. increased by 8 percent, or 9 percent at constant foreign exchange rates. Fiscal 2003 Outlook The Company confirmed its estimate of approximately $2.07 for diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2003. The Company also indicated that it estimates first quarter diluted earnings per share would approximate 39 cents. Included in first quarter estimated diluted earnings per share are
approximately 2 cents of incremental costs associated with the anticipated U.S. launch of the Company's blood glucose monitoring product. BD is a medical technology company that serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. BD manufactures and sells a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products. *** This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding the Company's performance, including future revenues, products and income, or events or developments that the Company expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of the Company and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. Factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; uncertainties of litigation; the Company's ability to achieve sales and earnings forecasts, which are based on sales volume and product mix assumptions, to achieve its cost savings objectives, and to achieve anticipated synergies and other cost savings in connection with acquisitions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; increases in energy costs; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in the Company's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; delays in product introductions; and changes in health care or other governmental regulation, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements. *** BD's news releases can be found on its website at www.bd.com or through Business Wire at www.businesswire.com. A conference call with analysts regarding this news release will be broadcast live on BD's website at 8:30 a.m. EST Thursday, November 7, 2002. The conference call will be available for playback on BD's website or at 1-888-562-0218 (domestic) and 1-402-998-1407 (international) through the close of business on November 14, 2002.
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data) NM - Not Meaningful See Note to Consolidated Income Statements. Page 1
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data) NM - Not Meaningful See Note to Consolidated Income Statements. Page 2
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY NOTE TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS Twelve Months Ended September 30, 2002 Fiscal 2002 revenues included hedging costs of approximately $3.6 million for the fourth quarter and $10.6 million for the twelve months, compared with $1.3 million and $9.9 million, respectively, in fiscal 2001. These costs related to BD's purchased option contracts to hedge a portion of its anticipated sales from the United States to non-U.S. customers. Hedging costs of approximately $8.1 million for the first six months of fiscal 2001 were recorded in Other Expense under previous accounting guidance. This amount has been reclassed to revenues. Also included in revenues were losses on forward contracts of approximately $0.9 million for the fourth quarter and net gains on purchased option and forward contracts of approximately $3.5 million for the twelve months, compared with gains of $4.2 million and $12.4 million, respectively, in fiscal 2001. Page 3
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 4
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND MAJOR PRODUCT GROUPS Three Months Ended September 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 5
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND MAJOR PRODUCT GROUPS Three Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 6
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND MAJOR PRODUCT GROUPS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 7
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND MAJOR PRODUCT GROUPS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 8


