FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20050722060453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On July 22, 2005, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted principles (GAAP), as follows:
We also separately present gross profit and gross profit margin after excluding the impact of significant charges. Management believes that these adjusted measures of gross profit and gross profit margin are more indicative of BD's underlying performance, and also allow investors to better understand BD's comparative operating performance for the period presented.
We also separately present these measures after excluding the impact of significant charges. Management believes that these adjusted measures of operating income are more indicative of BD's underlying performance, and also allow investors to better understand BD's comparative operating performance for the period presented.
 
 
 
compensation expense for the period, (ii) the effects of significant reversals of tax reserves, and (iii) the effects of changes in tax laws and regulations (including without limitation, rate changes) and other events that cause the tax rate for the period being presented to vary from BD's expected effective tax rate for the full year. Management eliminates the effect of share-based compensation in these instances in order to improve comparability to prior periods in which such expense was not recognized. In addition, significant reversals of tax reserves and the items mentioned above that effect our periodic effective tax rate cause fluctuations in BD's operating income from continuing operations from period to period that management believes are unrelated to BD's underlying operating performance. Accordingly, management believes that providing the impact of such effects allows investors to better understand BD's comparative operating performance for the period presented.
We also present earnings per share after excluding (i) the impact of share-based compensation expense for the period, (ii) the effects of significant reversals of tax reserves, and (iii) the effects of changes in tax laws and regulations and other events that cause the tax rate for the period being presented to vary from BD's expected effective tax rate for the full year. Management eliminates the effect of share-based compensation in these instances in order to improve comparability to prior periods in which such expense was not recognized. In addition, significant reversals of tax reserves and the items mentioned above that effect our periodic effective tax rate cause fluctuations in BD's operating income from continuing operations from period to period that management believes are unrelated to BD's underlying operating performance. Accordingly, management believes that providing the impact of such effects allows investors to better understand BD's comparative operating performance for the period presented.
 
 
 
 
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c)     Exhibits.
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 22, 2005
 
 

1 Becton Drive
Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417
www.bd.com
 
Contact:
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453
Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
BD ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR THIRD FISCAL QUARTER
 
Franklin Lakes, NJ (July 22, 2005)
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported record quarterly revenues of $1.381 billion for the third fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005, representing an increase of 11 percent over the prior year period. This quarter's growth rate includes an estimated 3 percent benefit from foreign currency translation. Revenue growth in all segments benefited from foreign currency translation, driven by favorable exchange rates in Europe, Asia Pacific, South Latin America, Canada, and Japan.
 
Reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter were 73 cents, which included less than 1 cent per share from discontinued operations. Reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2004 were 41 cents, which included less than 1 cent per share from discontinued operations; however, due to rounding, reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were 42 cents. Included in the prior period results was a pre-tax charge of $100 million related to a litigation settlement in July 2004. This charge reduced net income by $63 million and reported diluted earnings per share by 24 cents. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding this specified item would have been 66 cents.
 
The results of operations from Clontech, a unit of the BD Biosciences segment, have been classified as "discontinued operations." As previously announced, on July 1, 2005, BD signed an agreement to sell Clontech to Takara Bio Inc. of Otsu, Japan.
 
"I'm very pleased that we delivered another strong quarter," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our performance reflects revenue growth across all three segments, and in particular in the Diabetes Care, Pharmaceutical Systems, Preanalytical Systems and Discovery Labware units."
 
For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005, reported revenues were $4.035 billion, representing a 10 percent increase from the prior year period, including an estimated 3 percent benefit from foreign currency translation. Reported diluted earnings per share for the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005 were $2.19, which reflected diluted earnings per share of $2.18 from continuing operations and 1 cent per share from discontinued operations. For the same period in fiscal 2004, reported diluted earnings per share were $1.51, which included less than 1 cent per share from discontinued operations.
 
 
 
 
Analyses of Third Quarter and Nine-month Period of Fiscal Year 2005 and 2004 Earnings
The following analyses of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter and nine-month period of fiscal 2005 and 2004 exclude specified items and share-based compensation expense that affect the comparability of results between periods.
 
(1)
Included in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005 is a benefit of approximately 4 cents per diluted share due to the reversal of tax reserves in connection with the conclusion of tax examinations in four non-U.S. jurisdictions that occurred in the first quarter.
(2)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of tax-related events that caused the tax rate to vary from the expected effective tax rate for the year. The effective tax rate for the year, without taking into account the tax impact of the items described in notes (1) and (5) herein, is expected to be 25.5%.
(3)
Included in the nine-month period ended June 30, 2004 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is a first quarter charge of 11 cents per diluted share related to the voluntary recall and write-off of certain blood glucose strip inventory and other actions taken with respect to our blood glucose monitoring products.
(4)
Included in fiscal 2004 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is a third quarter charge of 24 cents per diluted share related to a litigation settlement.
(5)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations relating to share-based compensation expense associated with the early adoption of FASB Statement No. 123 (revised), and the equity-based awards granted under BD's new long-term incentive program, as described below.
 
Based on the foregoing analyses, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items and share-based compensation expense, of 78 cents for the third fiscal quarter of 2005 increased by 18 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of 66 cents for the third fiscal quarter of 2004. For the nine-month period, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items and share-based compensation expense, of $2.24 for fiscal 2005 increased by 20 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $1.86 for fiscal 2004.
 
 
 
 
Share-Based Compensation
Effective October 1, 2004, BD adopted FASB Statement No. 123 (revised) relating to the expensing of share-based incentive awards. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter and nine-month period included 5 cents and 12 cents, respectively, of share-based compensation expense associated with the adoption of FASB Statement No. 123 (revised), and the equity-based awards granted under BD's new long-term incentive program. This program consists of a mix of performance-based restricted stock unit awards, time-vested restricted stock unit awards and stock options or stock appreciation rights.
 
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $770 million, representing an increase of 13 percent from the prior year period. Contributing to the growth of the segment were strong sales in the Diabetes Care and Pharmaceutical Systems units. U.S. sales of safety-engineered products totaled $119 million compared with $113 million in the prior year's quarter. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005, U.S. sales of safety-engineered products totaled $360 million compared with $337 million in the prior year's period. Included in BD Medical revenues were international sales of safety-engineered products of $22 million, compared with $16 million in the prior year's quarter. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005, international sales of safety-engineered products totaled $60 million compared with $47 million in the prior year's period. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005, total BD Medical segment revenues increased by 10 percent from the prior year period.
 
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $411 million, representing an increase of 10 percent from the prior year period. The Diagnostic Systems unit of the segment reported revenue growth of 9 percent, reflecting solid worldwide sales of its molecular diagnostic platforms. The Preanalytical Systems unit of the segment reported revenue growth of 10 percent. U.S. sales of safety-engineered products, impacted by early BD Vacutainer Push Button Blood Collection Set conversion activity, totaled $92 million compared with $80 million in the prior year's quarter. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005, U.S. sales of safety-engineered products totaled $258 million compared with $231 million in the prior year's period. Included in Preanalytical Systems revenues were international sales of safety-engineered products of $52 million, compared with $37 million in the prior year's quarter. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005, international sales of safety-engineered products totaled $143 million compared with $101 million in the prior year's period. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005, total BD Diagnostics segment revenues increased by 8 percent from the prior year period.
 
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues from continuing operations for the quarter were $200 million, representing an increase of 8 percent from the prior year period. Research instrument and reagent growth continued to be the primary growth contributors, driven by increased demand for high-end research analyzers. As in the previous quarter, increased sales of Discovery Labware products also contributed to sales growth. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005, total BD Biosciences segment revenues increased by 10 percent from the prior period, representing continued strong sales of flow cytometry instruments and reagents.
 
 
 
 
Geographic Results
Third quarter revenues in the U.S. of $650 million represented an increase of 7 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside the U.S. of $732 million represented an increase of 15 percent over the prior year period, including an estimated 7 percent benefit from foreign currency translation.
 
For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2005, revenues in the U.S. of $1.904 billion represented an increase of 5 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. of $2.131 billion represented an increase of 14 percent over the prior year period, including an estimated 6 percent benefit from foreign currency translation.
 
Fiscal 2005 Outlook for Fourth Quarter and Full Year
 
The following analyses of estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth fiscal quarter and full year exclude specified items and share-based compensation expense that affect the comparability of results between periods.
 
(1)
Fiscal 2005 fourth quarter and full year estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations do not include the impact on taxes that would result if, as currently anticipated, the Company were to determine that it would repatriate certain undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
(2)
Represents the effect on estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of the reversal of tax reserves in the first fiscal quarter in connection with the conclusion of tax examinations in four non-U.S. jurisdictions.
(3)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of tax-related events that caused the tax rate to vary from the expected effective tax rate for the year. The effective tax rate for the year, without taking into account the tax impact of the items described in notes (1), (2) and (5) herein, is expected to be 25.5%.
(4)
Included in fiscal 2004 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations are the previously noted first quarter BGM charge of 11 cents per diluted share and the third quarter litigation charge of 24 cents per diluted share.
(5)
Represents the effect on estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of share-based compensation expense associated with the early adoption of FASB Statement No. 123 (revised),
and the equity-based awards granted under the new long-term incentive program, including an estimated fourth quarter adjustment associated with a projected increase in the estimated payout of performance-based restricted stock unit awards.
 
 
 
 
The Company estimates that fourth fiscal quarter 2005 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items and share-based compensation expense, will increase in the range of 6 to 9 percent over fourth fiscal quarter 2004 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 70 cents.
 
The Company also estimates that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2005, excluding specified items and share-based compensation expense, will increase in the range of 16 to 17 percent over fiscal 2004 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $2.56.
 
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's third fiscal quarter results and its expectations for the fourth fiscal quarter and full fiscal year will be broadcast live on BD's website, , at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Friday, July 22, 2005. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, , or at 1-800-933-9609 (domestic) and 1-402-530-8098 (international) through the close of business on July 29, 2005.
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
 
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these and other measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in this release and in the attached financial tables.
 
BD is a medical technology company that serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. BD manufactures and sells a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, BD reported total revenues of $4.935 billion.
 
***
 
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2005 Outlook for Fourth Quarter and Full Year," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission) and changes in healthcare or other governmental regulation; issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
 
 
 
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Three Months Ended June 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
Page 3
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Nine Months Ended June 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
Page 4
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 5
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 6
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended June 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 7
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 8
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 9
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Nine Months Ended June 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 10
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Nine Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 11
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Nine Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 12


