FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20051128163511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
November 21, 2005
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On November 21, 2005, executive officers of Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") were granted certain equity-based compensation awards, consisting of stock appreciation rights, Performance Units, and Career Shares, the terms of which are attached hereto as Exhibit A.
On the same date, the Compensation & Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors established performance targets, consisting primarily of an earnings per share performance target, for annual incentive payments to executive officers for fiscal year 2006 under the BD Performance Incentive Plan.
 
On November 22, 2005, the Board of Directors approved changes to the compensation for non-management directors, effective as of BD's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on January 31, 2006, as set forth on Exhibit B hereto.
 
 
Effective November 22, 2005, the Board of Directors approved amendments to the Bylaws of BD to (i) authorize the Chief Executive Officer to appoint persons to the position of Vice President within any business unit or function, provided such persons will not be considered officers of BD, and (ii) eliminate references to officer titles that are no longer used. A copy of the Bylaws of BD, as amended and restated as of November 22, 2005, is attached hereto as Exhibit C.
 
 
On November 22, 2005, BD issued a press release announcing an increase in BD's quarterly dividend and the authorization of a share repurchase program. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit D hereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: November 28, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT A
 
Terms of Awards Under
2004 Employee and Director Equity-Based Compensation Plan (the "Plan")
 
Capitalized terms used herein that are not defined shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT B
 
Compensation of Non-Management Members of the Board of Directors
of Becton, Dickinson and Company
 
On November 22, 2006, the Board of Directors approved the following changes to the compensation of BD's non-management directors, effective January 31, 2006: (i) increase the annual retainer for each non-management director from $55,500 to $60,000; (ii) increase the annual fee paid to each Board committee chair from $5,500 to $6,500, except that the annual fee for the Chair of the Audit Committee of the Board will be increased to $10,000; (iii) eliminate the annual grant of stock options; and (iv) change the annual grant of restricted stock units from 1,200 units to units having a fair market value on the date of grant, based on the market price of the BD common stock, of $120,000.
 
A summary of the current compensation of non-management directors and the compensation that will go into effect for such directors on January 31, 2006 is set forth below:
 
Current Compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compensation, effective January 31, 2006
 
 
(Other than Audit Committee)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

BY-LAWS
of
BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY
A New Jersey Corporation
as Amended and Restated as of February 1, 2005
 
ARTICLE I
Offices
The registered office of Becton, Dickinson and Company ("Company") shall be in the Borough of Franklin Lakes, County of Bergen, State of New Jersey or such other place within or without the State of New Jersey as the Board of Directors may designate. The Company may also establish and have such other offices within or without the State of New Jersey, as the Board of Directors may designate or its business may require.
ARTICLE II
Meetings of Shareholders
SECTION 1.
        
PLACE OF MEETINGS. Meetings of the shareholders shall be held at the registered office of the Company in New Jersey, or at such other place, within or without the State of New Jersey, as may be designated by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting.
SECTION 2.A.
    
ANNUAL MEETINGS. The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors and the transaction of such other business as may be related to the purposes set forth in the notice of the meeting shall be held at such time as may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
B.
           
SPECIAL MEETING FOR ELECTION OF DIRECTORS. If the annual meeting of shareholders is not held on the date designated, the Board of Directors may call a special meeting of the shareholders for the election of directors and the transaction of other business.
C.
           
SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board or by the President, and shall be called by the Chairman of the Board or by the President upon written request of a majority of the Directors then in office, which request shall state the time, place and purpose of the meeting.
D.
           
ADVANCE NOTICE OF NOMINATIONS AND BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED AT ANNUAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS. No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of shareholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any shareholder of the Company (i) who is a shareholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2.D. and on the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.D.
 
 
 
 
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors or for other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, such shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Company.
To be timely, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders;
provided
however
, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for on a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder in order to be timely must be so received not earlier than the 120 day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90 day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of shareholder's notice as described above.
th
th
Notwithstanding anything in the first sentence of the preceding paragraph to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors is increased and there is no notice or public disclosure by the Company naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 2.D. shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made.
To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), (b) as to each matter such shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (c) the name and record address of such shareholder, (d) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Company that are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder, (e) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with such nomination or proposal of such business by such shareholder and any material interest of such shareholder in such business and (f) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of shareholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.D;
provided
,
however
, that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in Section 2.D. shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any shareholder of any such business. If the Chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
SECTION 3.
        
QUORUM. The presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at a meeting shall constitute a quorum. The shareholders present in person or by proxy at a duly organized meeting may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum. If a quorum not be present or represented at any meeting, the Chairman of the meeting or a majority of the shareholders present in person, or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting without notice until the required voting shares shall be represented. At such adjourned meeting with the requisite amount of voting shares represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
SECTION 4.
        
NOTICE OF MEETINGS. A written notice of each annual or special meeting of the shareholders of the Company, signed by the Chairman of the Board or the President or the Secretary, which shall state the time, place and purpose of such meeting, shall be delivered personally or mailed, not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of any such meeting, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, the notice shall be directed to the shareholder at his address as it appears on the records of the stock transfer agent. Any shareholder, in person or by proxy, may at any time by a duly signed statement in writing to that effect, waive any statutory or other notice of any meeting, whether such statement be signed before or after such meeting.
SECTION 5.
        
VOTING. At all meetings of the shareholders, each holder of common stock having the right to vote, and present at the meeting in person or by proxy, shall be entitled to one vote for each full share of common stock of the Company entitled to vote and registered in his name. Each holder of preferred stock of any series shall have such voting powers, if any, as the Board of Directors shall have fixed by resolution prior to the issuance of any shares of such series. Whenever any action is to be taken by vote of the shareholders, it shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of the shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote, unless a greater plurality is required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation.
SECTION 6.
        
PROXIES. Any shareholder of record entitled to vote may be represented at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders by a duly appointed proxy. All proxies shall be written and properly signed, but shall require no other attestation, and shall be filed with the Secretary of the meeting before being voted.
SECTION 7.
      
ORGANIZATION. The Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the President, shall act as chairman of the meeting
 
 
 
chairman of the meeting at all meetings of the shareholders. The Secretary, or in his absence one of the Assistant Secretaries, shall act as secretary of the meeting. In case none of the officers above designated to act as Chairman or Secretary of the meeting shall be present, a chairman or a secretary of the meeting, as the case may be, shall be chosen by a vote of the shareholders.
SECTION 8.
        
ORDER OF BUSINESS. The order of business at all meetings of the shareholders shall be as determined by the Chairman of the meeting, but the order of business to be followed at any meeting at which a quorum is present may be changed by a vote of the shareholders.
SECTION 9.
        
RECORD DATE FOR ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT. In order that the Corporation may determine the shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any shareholder of record seeking to have the shareholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in New Jersey, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of shareholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action. Nothing in this Article II, Section 9 shall require the Board of Directors to take any action with respect to any proposed action or other proposal for which consent is sought other than to fix a record date as provided for herein; and the fixing of any such record date shall not be deemed to be an action taken by the Board of Directors with respect to any such proposed action or other proposal for which consent is sought for any other purpose.
SECTION 10. INSPECTORS OF WRITTEN CONSENT. In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Article II, Section 9, to the Company of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Company shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such
 
 
 
date as the independent inspectors certify to the Company that the consents delivered to the Company in accordance with Article II, Section 9 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any shareholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
SECTION 11. EFFECTIVENESS OF WRITTEN CONSENT. Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each shareholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Article II, Section 9, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Company in the manner prescribed in Article II, Section 9.
 
ARTICLE III
Directors
SECTION 1.
        
QUALIFICATIONS. Each Director shall be at least 21 years of age, a shareholder of record of the Company, and shall be elected in the manner provided by these By-Laws.
SECTION 2.
        
DUTIES AND POWERS. The Board of Directors shall control and manage the business and affairs of the Company, and shall exercise all powers of the Company and perform all acts which are not required to be exercised or performed by the shareholders. The Directors may adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of their meetings and the management of the Company as they may deem proper.
SECTION 3.
        
PLACE OF MEETINGS. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at the principal office of the Company or at such other place within or without the State of New Jersey, as the Chairman of the Board or the Board may designate.
SECTION 4.
        
TELEPHONE MEETINGS. Any or all Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board or a committee of the Board by means of conference telephone or any means of communication by which all persons participating in the meeting are able to hear each other.
SECTION 5.
        
NOTICE OF MEETINGS. There shall be an annual meeting of the Board of Directors held without notice immediately following the annual meeting of shareholders, or as soon thereafter as convenient, at the same place as the annual meeting of shareholders unless some other location is designated by the Chairman of the Board or by the President. Regular meetings, without notice, may be held at such time and place as the Board of Directors may designate. The Chairman of the Board or the President may call any special meeting of the Board of Directors, and shall do so whenever
 
 
 
requested in writing by at least one-third of the Directors. Notice of each special meeting shall be mailed to each director at least four days before the date on which the meeting is to be held, or be telephoned or sent to each Director by telegraph, telex, TWX, cable, wireless or similar means of communication, or be delivered in person, not later than the day before the date on which such meeting is to be held. The Board of Directors may meet to transact business at any time and place without notice, provided that each director shall be present, or that any Director or Directors not present shall waive notice in writing, either before or after such meeting. The attendance of any Director at a meeting without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice by him. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting. Notice of an adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place are fixed at the meeting adjourning and if the period of adjournment does not exceed 10 days in any one adjournment.
SECTION 6.
       
QUORUM. A majority of the Directors then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but the Director or Directors present, if less than a quorum, may adjourn any meeting from time to time until such quorum shall be present. All questions coming before the Board of Directors shall be determined and decided by a majority vote of the Directors present, unless the vote of a greater number is required by statute, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
SECTION 7.
        
ACTION WITHOUT A MEETING. The Board of Directors may act without a meeting if, prior or subsequent to such action, each Director shall consent in writing to such action. Such written consent or consents shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 8.
        
COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. The Board may, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office, fix reasonable fees or compensation of the Directors for services to the Company, including attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors or Committees of the Board. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Director from serving the Company in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Each Director shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of his duties.
ARTICLE IV
Committees
SECTION 1.
        
HOW CONSTITUTED AND POWERS. The Board of Directors, by resolution of a majority of the Directors then in office, shall appoint from among its members the committees enumerated in the By-laws and may appoint one or more other committees. The Board shall designate one member of each committee its chairman. To the extent provided in the By-law or any resolution conferring or limiting its powers each committee shall have and may exercise all the authority of the Board, except that no committee shall:
 
 
 
 
 
The Board, by resolution of a majority of the Directors then in office may fill any vacancy in any committee; appoint one or more alternate members of any committee to act in the absence or disability of members of such committees with all the powers of such absent or disabled members; or remove any director from membership on any committee.
SECTION 2. AUDIT COMMITTEE.
Purpose
The Audit Committee is created by the Board of Directors of the Company to:
Membership
The Audit Committee shall consist of at least three members, comprised solely of independent directors meeting the independence and experience requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend nominees for appointment to the Audit Committee annually and as vacancies or newly created positions occur. Audit Committee members shall be appointed by the Board and may be removed by the Board at any time. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend to the Board, and the Board shall designate, the Chair of the Audit Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
Authority and Responsibilities
In addition to any other responsibilities which may be assigned from time to time by the Board, the Audit Committee is responsible for the following matters:
 
Independent Auditors
 
 
 
 
 
Internal Auditors
Financial Statements; Disclosure and Other Risk Management and Compliance Matters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting to the Board
 
 
Procedures
The Audit Committee shall meet as often as it determines is appropriate to carry out its responsibilities under this charter, but not less frequently than quarterly. The Chair of the Audit Committee, in consultation with the other committee members and management, shall determine the frequency and length of the committee meetings and shall determine meeting agendas consistent with this charter.
 
The Audit Committee shall meet separately, periodically, with management, with internal auditors or other personnel responsible for the internal audit function and with the independent auditors.
 
The Audit Committee is authorized to retain special legal, accounting or other advisors, as it determines necessary to carry out its duties, and may request any officer or employee of the Company or the Company's outside counsel or independent auditors to meet with any members of, or advisors to, the Audit Committee.
 
The Company shall provide for appropriate funding, as determined by the Audit Committee, for payment of (i) compensation to the independent auditors (ii) compensation to any advisors employed by the Audit Committee and (iii) ordinary administrative expenses of the Audit Committee that are necessary or appropriate in carrying out its duties.
 
 
 
 
 
The Audit Committee may delegate its authority to subcommittees or the Chair of the Audit Committee when it deems appropriate and in the best interests of the Company.
 
Limitations Inherent in the Audit Committee's Role
While the Audit Committee has the responsibilities and powers set forth in this Charter, it is not the duty of the Audit Committee to plan or conduct audits or to determine that the Company's financial statements are complete and accurate and are in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This is the responsibility of management and the independent auditor. Nor is it the duty of the Audit Committee to conduct investigations, to ensure compliance with laws and regulations and the Company's Code of Conduct, or to assess and manage the Company's exposure to risk. This is the responsibility of management, subject to oversight by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 3. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS COMMITTEE.
Purpose
The Compensation and Benefits Committee (the "Compensation Committee") is created by the Board of Directors of the Company to:
Membership
The Compensation Committee shall consist of at least three members, comprised solely of independent directors meeting the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange,all of whom also shall be "nonemployee directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend nominees for appointment to the Compensation Committee annually and as vacancies or newly created positions occur. Compensation Committee members shall be appointed by the Board and may be removed by the Board at any time. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend to the Board, and the Board shall designate, the Chair of the Compensation Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
Authority and Responsibilities
In addition to any other responsibilities which may be assigned from time to time by the Board, the Compensation Committee is responsible for the following matters.
Compensation and Benefit Policies and Administration
Executive Compensation
 
 
 
 
Disclosure
Reporting to the Board
 
 
 
 
 
Procedures
The Compensation Committee shall meet as often as it determines is appropriate to carry out its responsibilities under this charter. The Chair of the Compensation Committee, in consultation with the other committee members and management, shall determine the frequency and length of the committee meetings and shall determine meeting agendas consistent with this charter.
The Compensation Committee is authorized to retain any special legal or other advisors, as it determines necessary to carry out its duties, and may request any officer or employee of the Company of the Company's outside counsel to meet with any members of, or advisors to, the Compensation Committee. Without limiting the foregoing, the Compensation Committee has the sole authority to retain and terminate any compensation consultant assisting the Compensation Committee in carrying out its responsibilities under this charter, including sole authority to approve all such compensation consultants' fees and other retention terms.
The Company shall provide for appropriate funding, as determined by the Compensation Committee, for payment of (i) compensation to any consultant retained by the Compensation Committee and (ii) ordinary administrative expenses of the Compensation Committee that are necessary or appropriate in carrying out its duties.
The Compensation Committee may delegate its authority to subcommittees or to the Chair of the Compensation Committee when it deems appropriate and in the best interests of the Company.
 
SECTION 4. CORPORATE AFFAIRS COMMITTEE.
Purpose
 
The Corporate Affairs Committee is created by the Board of Directors of the Company to assist the Board in its oversight of matters impacting the Company's image and reputation and its standing as a responsible corporate citizen.
Membership
The Corporate Affairs Committee shall consist of at least three members. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend nominees for appointment to the Committee annually and as vacancies or newly created positions occur. Committee members shall be appointed by the Board and may be removed by the Board at any time. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend to the Board, and the Board shall designate, the Chair of the Committee.
Authority and Responsibilities
In addition to any other responsibilities which may be assigned from time to time by the Board, the Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of the Company's
 
 
 
policies, practices and procedures in the general areas of ethical conduct and legal compliance, including, but not limited to, issues relating to the following areas:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee also shall review all requests for and, if it determines any such requests appropriate after consultation with the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board, may grant waivers of provisions of the Company's Code of Conduct, to the Company's executive officers and directors. The Committee shall report any such waiver to the full Board of Directors.
Reporting to the Board
 
The Committee shall report to the Board periodically. This report shall include a review of any issues that arise with respect to the Company's policies, practices and procedures, and any other matter that the Committee deems appropriate or is requested to be included by the Board.
At least annually, the Committee shall evaluate its own performance and report to the Board on such evaluation.
The Committee shall periodically review and assess the adequacy of this Charter and recommend any proposed changes to the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
Procedures
 
The Corporate Affairs Committee shall meet as often as it determines is appropriate to carry out its responsibilities under this Charter. The Chair of the Corporate Affairs Committee, in consultation with the other committee members and management, shall determine the frequency and length of the committee meetings and shall determine meeting agendas consistent with this Charter.
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee is authorized to retain special legal or other advisors, as it determines necessary to carry out its duties, and may request any officer or employee of the Company or the Company's outside counsel to meet with any members of, or advisors to, the Committee.
 
The Company shall provide for appropriate funding, as determined by the Committee, for payment of (i) compensation to any advisors retained by the Committee and (ii) ordinary administrative expenses of the Committee that are necessary or appropriate in carrying out its duties.
 
The Committee may delegate its authority to subcommittees or the Chair of the Committee when it deems appropriate and in the best interests of the Company.
 
Limitations Inherent in the Role of the Corporate Affairs Committee
 
While the Corporate Affairs Committee has the responsibilities and powers set forth in this Charter, it is not the duty of the Corporate Affairs Committee to ensure compliance with laws and regulations and the Company's Code of Conduct. This is the responsibility of management, subject to oversight by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 5. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATING COMMITTEE.
Purpose
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee (the "Committee") is created by the Board of Directors of the Company to:
Membership
The Committee shall consist of at least three members, comprised solely of independent directors meeting the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. The Board shall appoint members to the Committee annually and as vacancies or newly created positions occur. Committee members may be removed by the
 
 
 
Board at any time. The Committee shall recommend to the Board, and the Board shall designate, the Chair of the Committee.
Authority and Responsibilities
In addition to any other responsibilities which may be assigned from time to time by the Board, the Committee is responsible for the following matters.
Board/Committee Nominees/Lead Director
Evaluating the Board and its Committees
 
 
 
 
 
Director Compensation
Corporate Governance Matters
Director Orientation and Continuing Education
Periodic Review of the Company's Shareholder Rights Plan
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting to the Board
Procedures
The Committee shall meet as often as it determines is appropriate to carry out its responsibilities under this charter. The Chair of the Committee, in consultation with the other Committee members and management, shall determine the frequency and length of the Committee meetings and shall determine meeting agendas consistent with this charter.
 
The Committee has the sole authority to retain and terminate any search firm assisting the Committee in identifying director candidates, including sole authority to approve all such search firms' fees and other retention terms. In addition, the Committee has the sole authority to retain and terminate any compensation consultant assisting the Committee in the evaluation of director compensation, including sole authority to approve all such compensation consultant's fees and other retention terms.
 
The Committee is authorized to retain any other special legal or other advisors, as it determines necessary to carry out its duties, and may request any officer or employee of the Company or the Company's outside counsel to meet with any members of, or advisors to, the Committee.
 
The Company shall provide for appropriate funding, as determined by the Committee, for payment of (i) compensation to any search firm, consultant or other advisor retained by the Committee and (ii) ordinary administrative expenses of the Committee that are necessary or appropriate in carrying out its duties.
 
The Committee may delegate its authority to subcommittees or the Chair of the Committee when it deems appropriate and in the best interests of the Company.
 
SECTION 6. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
The Executive Committee shall consist of not less than 3 members. During the intervals between meetings of the Board of Directors and subject to Section 1 of this Article, the Executive Committee shall possess and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the control and management of the business and affairs of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7. FINANCE COMMITTEE.
Purpose
 
The Finance Committee is created by the Board of Directors of the Company to oversee the financial affairs of the Company.
Membership
The Finance Committee shall consist of not less than three members. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend nominees for appointment to the Committee annually and as vacancies or newly created positions occur. Committee members shall be appointed by the Board and may be removed by the Board at any time. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend to the Board, and the Board shall designate, the Chair of the Committee.
Authority and Responsibilities
Based upon periodic reports and recommendations of management, the Finance Committee shall regularly review the financial affairs of the Company and shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) review periodically, but not less frequently than annually, pursuant to guidelines, if any, established from time to time by this Committee,
 
(i) any notable changes or deviations in financial condition, and
(ii) the Company's foreign exchange exposure and its management thereof;
 
 
 
Reporting to the Board
 
The Committee shall report to the Board periodically. This report shall include a review of any issues that arise with respect to the Company's capital structure, financial policies, capital expenditures, acquisitions or divestitures, risk management strategies and any other matter that the Committee deems appropriate or is requested to be included by the Board.
At least annually, the Committee shall evaluate its own performance and report to the Board on such evaluation.
The Committee shall periodically review and assess the adequacy of this Charter and recommend any proposed changes to the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
Procedures
 
The Finance Committee shall meet as often as it determines is appropriate to carry out its responsibilities under this Charter. The Chair of the Committee, in consultation with the other Committee members and management, shall determine the frequency and length of the Committee meetings and shall determine meeting agendas consistent with this Charter.
 
The Committee is authorized to retain special legal or other advisors, as it determines necessary to carry out its duties, and may request any officer or employee of the Company or the Company's outside counsel to meet with any members of, or advisors to, the Committee.
 
The Company shall provide for appropriate funding, as determined by the Committee, for payment of (i) compensation to any advisors retained by the Committee and (ii) ordinary administrative expenses of the Committee that are necessary or appropriate in carrying out its duties.
 
The Committee may delegate its authority to subcommittees or the Chair of the Committee when it deems appropriate and in the best interests of the Company.
 
 
Purpose
The Qualified Legal Compliance Committee ("QLCC") is created by the Board of Directors of the Company to review any report by an attorney representing the Company or its subsidiaries of a material violation of U.S. federal or state securities law, a material breach of fiduciary duty arising under U.S. federal or state law or a similar material violation of any U.S. federal or state law (a "material violation"), all in accordance with the provisions of 17 CFR Part 205, as amended from time to time ("Part 205"). Any terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the definitions given them, if any, in Part 205.
Membership
The QLCC shall consist of at least one member of the Company's audit committee and two or more members of the Company's Board of Directors who are independent and are not employed, directly or indirectly, by the Company. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend nominees for appointment to the QLCC annually and as vacancies or newly created positions occur. QLCC members shall be appointed by the Board and may be removed by the Board at any time. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall recommend to the Board, and the Board shall designate, the Chair of the QLCC.
 
 
 
 
 
Authority and Responsibilities
In addition to any other responsibilities which may be assigned from time to time by the Board, the QLCC has the authority and responsibility for the following matters:
 
 
 
 
Procedures
The QLCC may act only by majority vote.
The QLCC shall meet as often as appropriate to carry out its responsibilities under this charter. The Chairman of the QLCC, in consultation with the other committee members, shall determine the frequency and length of the committee meetings and shall set meeting agendas consistent with this charter.
The QLCC is authorized (without seeking Board approval) to retain outside attorneys and other expert personnel to assist the QLCC as it deems necessary.
 
SECTION 9.
   
MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES. Each committee may make its own rules of procedure and shall meet as provided by such rules or by resolution of the Board of Directors, and shall also meet at the call of the chairman of the committee, the Chairman of the Board, the President, or a majority of the members of the committee.
 
A majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of all of the members shall be necessary for the adoption of a resolution or to approve any matter within the scope of the authority of a committee. Minutes of the proceedings of a committee shall be recorded in a book provided for that purpose and filed with the Secretary of the Company. A committee may act without a meeting if, prior or subsequent to such action, each member shall consent in writing to such action. Such written consent or consents shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the committee.
Action taken by a committee, with or without a meeting, shall be reported to the Board of Directors at its next regular meeting following such committee action; except that, when the meeting of the Board is held within 2 days after the committee action, such report, if not made at the first meeting, shall be made to the Board at its second meeting following such action.
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE V
Officers
SECTION 1.
       
ENUMERATION, APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL. The corporate officers of the Company shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents, one or more Vice Presidents, a Controller, a Treasurer, a Secretary and such other corporate officers (including assistant corporate officers) as the Board of Directors may deem necessary or desirable for the transaction of the business of the Company. In its discretion, the Board of Directors may leave unfilled any office except those of the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, and should any vacancy occur among said officers by death, resignation or otherwise, the same shall be filled at the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors or at a special meeting. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person. The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors, then in office, shall designate the Chairman of the Board or the President to serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
The corporate officers shall be elected at the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the annual election of Directors, and shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of the Board of Directors, subject to the power of the Board of Directors to remove any corporate officer at pleasure by an affirmative vote of the majority of the Directors then in office.
Every corporate officer shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the Company as may be provided in these By-laws, or such duties consistent with these By-laws as may be assigned by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer shall have the authority to appoint persons to the position of Vice President with respect to any business unit or function within the Company. Such persons shall not be deemed to be officers of the Company by virtue of such appointment.
SECTION 2.
        
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Chief Executive Officer shall be elected from among the members of the Board of Directors and shall have general charge and supervision over and responsibility for the business and affairs of the Company. He shall keep the Board of Directors fully informed concerning those areas in his charge, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall have all the powers and perform all the duties of the Chairman of the Board.
SECTION 3.
        
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders and shall perform such other duties as these By-laws or the Board of Directors may prescribe.
SECTION 4.
        
PRESIDENT. The President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided by statute, these By-laws, and as may be assigned by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5.
        
TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the Company funds and securities, maintain banking relationships and execute credit and collection policies. He shall perform such other duties and possess such other powers as are incident to his office.
SECTION 6.
        
SECRETARY. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders, and shall record all proceedings of such meetings in books to be kept for that purpose. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and the Board of Directors. He shall have the custody of the seal of the Company and shall affix the same to all instruments requiring it, and attest the same. He shall perform such other duties and possess such other powers as are incident to his office.
ARTICLE VI
Certificate of Capital Stock
SECTION 1.
        
FORM AND TRANSFERS. The interest of each shareholder of the Company shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of capital stock, certifying the number of shares represented thereby and in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Transfers of shares of the capital stock of the Company shall be made only on the books of the Company, which shall include the books of the stock transfer agent, by the registered holder thereof, or by his attorney authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary of the Company, or a transfer agent appointed as provided in Section 4 of this Article, and on surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed and the payment of all taxes thereon. The person in whose name shares of capital stock stand on the books of the Company shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes. The Board may, from time to time, make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer, and registration of certificates for shares of the capital stock of the Company. Certificates shall be signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the Chairman, the President or a Vice-President, and may be countersigned by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the corporation and may be sealed with the seal of the corporation or a facsimile thereof. Any or all signatures upon a certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate, shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of its issue.
SECTION 2.
        
FIXING RECORD DATE. For the purpose of determining the shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or an adjournment thereof, or to express consent to or dissent from any proposal without a meeting, or for the purpose of determining the shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or allotment of any right, or for the purpose of any other action, the Board of Directors shall fix a date not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the date of any such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action, as the record date for any such determination of shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3.
  
LOST, STOLEN, DESTROYED, OR MUTILATED CERTIFICATES. No certificate for shares of capital stock in the Company shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Company, if the Board of Directors shall so require, of a bond of indemnity upon such terms and secured by such surety as the Board of Directors may in its discretion require. A new certificate may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, it is proper to do so.
SECTION 4.
      
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars, and may require all certificates of capital stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them. One corporation may serve as both transfer agent and registrar.
SECTION 5.
        
EXAMINATION OF BOOKS BY SHAREHOLDERS. So far as it is not inconsistent with the law of New Jersey, the Board of Directors shall have power to determine, from time to time, whether and to what extent and at what times and places and under what conditions and regulations the books and records of account, minutes of the proceedings of the shareholders, Board of Directors and any committee of the Company, and other documents of the Company, or any of them, shall be open to inspection of the shareholders.
SECTION 6.
       
VOTING SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board and the President, or either of them, shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Company to attend and to act and to vote at any meeting of Shareholders of any corporation in which this Company may hold stock, and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock, and which, as the owner thereof, this Company might have possessed and exercised if present. The Board of Directors, by resolution, from time to time, may confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
ARTICLE VII
Dividends
Dividends shall be declared and paid at such times and in such amounts as the Board of Directors may in its absolute discretion determine and designate, subject to the restrictions and limitations imposed by law.
ARTICLE VIII
Signatures
Unless otherwise required by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation, by these By-laws, or by resolution of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Sector President, Group President, or Vice President, or the Controller or the Treasurer of the Company may enter into and execute in the name of the Company, contracts or other instruments in the regular course of business, or contracts or other instruments not in the regular course of business which are authorized either generally or specifically by the Board of
 
 
 
Directors, and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary shall affix the Company seal thereto and attest the same, if required.
ARTICLE IX
Fiscal Year
The fiscal year of the Company shall begin on the 1st day of October in each year and end on the September 30th next succeeding.
ARTICLE X
Directors May Contract With Company
Any Director or corporate officer may be a party to or may be interested in any agreement or transaction of this Company by which he may personally benefit, with the same force and effect as if he were either an entire stranger to the Company or to the Board of Directors, provided the fact that he is so interested or may personally benefit shall be disclosed or shall have been known to the majority of the Board of Directors; and further provided that such agreement or transaction shall be approved or ratified by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors not so interested or benefited.
ARTICLE XI
Indemnification
The Company shall indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, any corporate agent (as defined in said Act), or his legal representative, made, or threatened to be made, a party to any action, suit or proceeding (whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative) by reason of the fact that he is or was a corporate agent of this Company.
ARTICLE XII
Amendments
These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed by the shareholders or by a majority vote of the Directors then in office. Any By-law adopted, amended or repealed by the shareholders may be amended or repealed by a majority vote of the Directors then in office unless the resolution of the shareholders adopting such By-law expressly reserves the right to amend or repeal it to the shareholders.
ARTICLE XIII
Force and Effect of By-Laws
These By-laws are subject to the provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act and the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, as it may be amended from time to time. If any provision in these By-laws is inconsistent with a provision in that Act or the Certificate of Incorporation, the provision of that Act or the Certificate of Incorporation shall govern to the extent of such inconsistency.
 
 
 

 
1 Becton Drive
Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417
www.bd.com
 
 
Contact
:
Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453
 
 
BD BOARD DECLARES DIVIDEND INCREASE AND AUTHORIZES ADDITIONAL SHARE REPURCHASES
 
Franklin Lakes, NJ (November 22, 2005)
 The Board of Directors of BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE:BDX) has declared a quarterly dividend of 21.5 cents per common share, an increase of 3.5 cents per share or 19.4% from the previous quarter. The dividend will be payable on January 3, 2006 to holders of record on December 13, 2005. At the current rate, the annual dividend for fiscal 2006 would be 86 cents per share, a rise of 19.4% from a year ago and 115% from fiscal 2003.
 
The Board has also authorized BD to repurchase up to 10 million of its common shares. BD plans to use the shares for general corporate purposes. This authorization is in addition to the approximately 4.3 million shares that remained available at September 30, 2005 under a 10 million-share repurchase authorization in November 2004. On September 30, 2005, BD had approximately 248 million common shares outstanding. BD said the new authorization is consistent with continued strong cash flow.
 
"BD has increased its dividend for 33 consecutive years. Our dividend, along with the repurchasing of our shares, has allowed us to return significant dollars to our shareholders," said Edward J. Ludwig, BD Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This provides evidence that our strategy of driving revenue growth through innovation and expanding margins by improving operational effectiveness is working. We will continue to implement it, and we expect our shareholders to continue to be the beneficiaries."
 
About BD
BD is a medical technology company that serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. BD manufactures and sells a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products. To learn more about BD, please visit www.bd.com.
 
***
 
This press release contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future.
 
 
All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); changes in healthcare or other governmental regulation; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
 
 
 
 
 


