FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20050126071949.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) January 26, 2005 ---------------- BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) New Jersey - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 001-4802 22-0760120 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (201) 847-6800 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code N/A - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On January 26, 2005, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those under U.S. generally accepted accounting principals (GAAP), as follows: o We present revenue growth rates at constant foreign exchange rates. We believe that presenting growth rates at constant foreign exchange rates allows investors to view the underlying operating results of BD and of its segments without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating comparisons to prior periods. o We present earnings per share and other financial measures after excluding the impact of significant charges, and the impact of unusual or non-recurring items. We believe that excluding such impact from these financial measures allows investors to more easily compare BD's financial performance with prior period performance and to understand the operating results of BD without the effects of these significant charges and unusual or non-recurring items. o We present earnings per share and other financial measures after excluding the impact of share-based compensation expense for the period, to the extent such period is being compared to a prior period where such expense was either not recognized or was immaterial. We believe that excluding these expenses, which are non-cash items, allows investors to more easily compare BD's financial performance with prior period performance. o We present earnings per share and other financial measures after excluding the effects of changes in tax laws and regulations (including without limitation, rate changes) and other events that cause the tax rate for the period being presented to vary from the Company's expected effective tax rate for the full fiscal year. We believe that excluding such effects facilitates comparisons of BD's financial performance with prior period performance. BD's management considers these non-GAAP financial measures internally in evaluating BD's performance. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, not as a substitute for or as superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits. Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated January 26, 2005, which is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY (Registrant) By: /s/ Dean J. Paranicas -------------------------------- Dean J. Paranicas Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Public Policy Date: January 26, 2005
INDEX TO EXHIBITS ----------------- Exhibit Number Description of Exhibits ------ ----------------------- 99.1 Press release dated January 26, 2005, which is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES The trademark symbol shall be expressed as...............................'TM'

News Release [BECTON DICKINSON LOGO] Contact: Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations - 201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications - 201-847-5369 BD ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR FISCAL FIRST QUARTER Franklin Lakes, NJ (January 26, 2005) - BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported record quarterly revenues of $1.288 billion for the fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2004, representing an increase of 9 percent from the same period a year ago. At constant foreign exchange rates, revenues increased 6 percent for the quarter. Revenue growth in all segments benefited from favorable foreign currency translation, particularly with respect to the Euro. "We're off to a strong start for fiscal 2005 with all business segments contributing solid results. Our global revenue growth, disciplined cost control and supply chain productivity continue to deliver earnings increases," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This strong performance is enabling us to increase our investments in innovation and growth for the future." Reported diluted earnings per share for the first quarter were 75 cents. On October 4, 2004, BD announced that a plan had been initiated to offer Clontech, a unit of the BD Biosciences segment, for sale; therefore, the results of operations from Clontech have been classified as "discontinued operations." Income from discontinued operations for the first quarter of $1.0 million is less than 1 cent per diluted share; however, due to rounding, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were 74 cents.
Analyses of First Quarter Fiscal Year 2005 and 2004 Earnings The following analyses of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations have been provided to reconcile to pro forma diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarters of fiscal 2005 and 2004. (1) Included in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 is approximately 4 cents per diluted share due to the reversal of tax reserves in connection with the conclusion of tax examinations in four non-U.S. jurisdictions. (2) Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of tax-related events that caused the quarter's tax rate to vary from the expected effective tax rate for the year. The expected effective tax rate for the year, without taking into account the tax impact of the items described in notes (1) and (3) herein, is 25.5%. (3) Included in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is approximately 3 cents per diluted share related to share-based compensation expense recorded in connection with the early adoption of FASB Statement No. 123 (revised), and the restricted stock awards granted under the new long-term incentive program, both of which occurred this quarter and are described below. (4) Included in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is a charge of 11 cents per diluted share related to the voluntary recall and write-off of certain blood glucose strip inventory and other actions taken with respect to our blood glucose monitoring products. Based on the foregoing analyses, pro forma diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 71 cents for the fiscal first quarter of 2005 increased by 22 percent over pro forma diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 58 cents for the fiscal first quarter of 2004. Share-Based Compensation As planned, effective October 1, 2004, the Company adopted FASB Statement No.123 (revised) relating to the expensing of share-based incentive awards. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarter included 3 cents of share-based compensation expense associated with the adoption and the restricted stock awards granted under the new long-term incentive program, which consisted of a mix of performance-based restricted stock awards, time-vested restricted stock awards and stock options or stock appreciation rights. We estimate that total share-based compensation expense for the fiscal year 2005 will be about 17 cents per diluted share. Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $694 million, representing an increase of 11 percent over the prior year period. BD Medical revenues reflect the continued conversion in the U.S. to safety-engineered products, accounting for sales of $126 million compared with $114 million in the prior year's quarter. Included in BD Medical revenues were international sales of safety-engineered products of $18 million, compared with $14 million in the prior year's quarter. Also contributing to the growth of the segment were strong sales in the Diabetes Care unit. In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $414 million, representing an increase of 3 percent over the prior year period. Revenue growth of 13 percent in the Preanalytical Systems unit of the segment reflects the continued conversion in the U.S. to safety-engineered products, accounting for sales of $86 million, compared with $76 million in the prior year's quarter. Included in Preanalytical Systems revenues were international sales of safety-engineered products of $42 million, compared with $29 million in the prior year's quarter. As anticipated, and despite strong sales from the BD ProbeTec'TM' ET and BD Phoenix'TM' instruments, revenues in the Diagnostic Systems unit of the segment declined 5 percent from the prior year's quarter. The first quarter of fiscal 2004 benefited from exceptionally strong sales of flu tests in Japan and the U.S., which did not recur in this year's fiscal first quarter. In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues from continuing operations for the quarter were $181 million, representing an increase of 15 percent over the prior year period. Instrument revenue growth was primarily driven by sales of the recently launched BD FACSCanto'TM' analyzer. Continued strong market acceptance of the BD FACSAria'TM' cell sorter also contributed to sales. First quarter sales of flow cytometry reagents were also strong in both the clinical and research markets. Geographic Results First quarter revenues in the U.S. of $624 million represented an increase of 7 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside the U.S. of $664 million represented an increase of 11 percent over the prior year period, or 5 percent at constant foreign exchange rates.
Fiscal 2005 Outlook for Second Quarter and Full Year The following analyses of estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations have been provided to reconcile to estimated pro forma diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fiscal 2005 second quarter and full year. (1) Fiscal 2005 second quarter and full year estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations do not include the impact on taxes that would result if the Company were to repatriate certain undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. (2) Represents diluted earnings per share from continuing operations due to the reversal of tax reserves in the first quarter in connection with the conclusion of tax examinations in four non-U.S. jurisdictions. (3) Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of tax-related events that causes the quarter's tax rate to vary from the expected effective tax rate for the year. The expected effective tax rate for the year, without taking into account the tax impact of the items described in notes (1), (2) and (4) herein, is 25.5%. (4) Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations relating to share-based compensation expense associated with the early adoption of FASB Statement No. 123 (revised), and the restricted stock awards granted under the new long-term incentive program. (5) Included in full year fiscal 2004 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was a third quarter charge of 24 cents per diluted share related to the settlement of the Retractable Technologies, Inc. litigation, in addition to the previously noted first quarter BGM charge of 11 cents per diluted share. The Company estimates that second quarter 2005 pro forma diluted earnings per share from continuing operations will increase in the range of 13 to 16 percent as compared with fiscal second quarter 2004 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 62 cents. The Company also estimates pro forma diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2005 will increase in the range of 13 to 15 percent compared with fiscal 2004 pro forma diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.56. Conference Call Information A conference call regarding BD's first quarter results and its expectations for the second quarter and full fiscal year will be broadcast live on BD's website, www.bd.com/investors, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Wednesday, January 26, 2005. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, www.bd.com/investors, or at 1-800-475-6701 (domestic) and 1-320-365-3844 (international) through the close of business on February 2, 2005.
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these and other measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in this release and in the attached financial tables. BD is a medical technology company that serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. BD manufactures and sells a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, BD reported total revenues of $4.935 billion. *** This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2005 Outlook for Second Quarter and Full Year," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing the Company's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission) and changes in healthcare or other governmental regulation; issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data) NM - Not Meaningful (1) Includes share-based compensation expense relating to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (revised). (2) Includes a $45,024 charge associated with blood glucose monitoring (BGM) products. (3) Includes income of less than $0.01 of diluted earnings per share, however due to rounding, basic and diluted EPS is $0.01 higher than basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. Page 1
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Three Months Ended December 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data) (1) Relates to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (revised), "Share-Based Payment". Fiscal 2004 amounts have not been restated. (2) Relates to the reversal of tax reserves in connection with the conclusion of tax examinations in four non-U.S. jurisdictions. (3) Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of tax-related events that caused the quarter's tax rate to vary from the expected effective tax rate for the year. The expected effective tax rate for the year, without taking into account the tax impact of items described in notes (1) and (2) herein, is 25.5%. (4) Includes income of less than $0.01 of diluted earnings per share, however due to rounding, basic and diluted EPS is $0.01 higher than basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Three Months Ended December 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data) (4) Includes income of less than $0.01 of diluted earnings per share, however due to rounding, basic and diluted EPS is $0.01 higher than basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. (5) Relates to the fiscal 2004 charge associated with blood glucose monitoring (BGM) products. Page 2
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 3
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended December 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 4
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended December 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 5
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended December 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) Page 6
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Three Months Ended, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands) 2004 International Safety Revenues 2004 U.S. Safety Revenues (revised) (*) (*) Restated to reflect a refinement of products classified as Safety. Other Information Included in the Ten-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data on page 22 of the Company's 2004 Annual Report, is the caption "Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes". For the Company's fiscal year 2001, the amount referenced of $535.2 million included footnote reference (C) which reads "Excludes the cumulative effect of accounting changes". The correct footnote reference should be (A) which reads "Includes cumulative effect of accounting change of $36.8 ($.14 per basic and diluted share)." Page 7


