FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20060426073016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On April 26, 2006, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted principles (GAAP), as follows:
We also present income taxes and effective tax rate for the prior year's period after excluding the effects of significant reversals of tax reserves and the effects of changes in tax laws and regulations and other events that caused the tax rate for the period presented to vary from BD's then expected effective tax rate for the full year. Significant reversals of tax reserves and the items mentioned above that effect our periodic effective tax rate cause fluctuations in BD's income from continuing operations from period to period that management believes are unrelated to BD's underlying operating performance. Accordingly, management believes that providing the impact of such effects allows investors to better understand BD's comparative operating performance for the periods presented.
We also present income from operations for the prior year's first six months after excluding the effects of significant reversals of tax reserves and the effects of changes in tax laws and regulations and other events that caused the tax rate for the quarter to vary from BD's then expected effective tax rate for the full year. For the reasons discussed above, management believes that providing the impact of such effects allows investors to better understand BD's comparative operating performance for the periods presented.
 
 
 
 
We also present earnings per share from continuing operations on a prospective basis after excluding the aforementioned settlements and charge and the dilutive impact of the GeneOhm acquisition. Management excludes the impact of the GeneOhm operations in order to improve the comparability of the period presented to prior periods where such impact was not recorded.
We also present earnings per share from continuing operations for prior periods after excluding (i) the effects of significant reversals of tax reserves, (ii) the effects of changes in tax laws and regulations and other events that caused the tax rate during the period to vary from BD's expected effective tax rate for the full year, and/or (iii) the impact on taxes of the planned repatriation of foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act. These items cause fluctuations in BD's operating results that management believes are unrelated to BD's underlying operating performance. Accordingly, management believes that providing the impact of such items allows investors to better understand BD's comparative operating performance for the periods presented.
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 26, 2006
 
 

 
1 Becton Drive
Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417
www.bd.com
 
 
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported record quarterly revenues of $1.449 billion for the second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006, representing an increase of 6 percent over the prior year period. This quarter's growth rate reflects an overall estimated 3 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which affected all segments.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (April 26, 2006)
"We are very pleased with our strong second quarter results, which exceeded our expectations," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We also closed the acquisition of GeneOhm, which will enable BD to further progress in the emerging field of healthcare-associated infections. The Company is well positioned to become a leader in the prevention and management of this global healthcare problem."
On February 14, 2006, BD announced the completion of its acquisition of GeneOhm Sciences, Inc. (GeneOhm), a company that has pioneered the development of molecular diagnostic testing for the rapid detection of bacteria, which cause healthcare-associated infections. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter reflects a reduction of 1 cent per share related to the impact of GeneOhm operations for the second quarter. For the full fiscal year 2006, the Company expects diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be reduced by approximately 7 cents related to the impact of GeneOhm operations. In addition, in the second quarter, the Company recorded an in-process research and development charge of $53 million associated with the acquisition, which further reduced diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by 21 cents in the quarter (see Table 1).
GeneOhm Sciences, Inc. Acquisition Completed
The following analysis of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter and six-month period of fiscal 2006 and 2005 identifies specified items that affect the comparability of results between periods.
Analysis of Second Quarter and Six-month Period of Fiscal Year 2006 and 2005 Earnings
As illustrated in Table 1, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items and including the dilutive impact on operating results from the acquisition, of 79 cents for the second fiscal quarter of 2006 increased by 11 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 71 cents for the second fiscal quarter of 2005. For the six-month period, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items and including the dilutive impact on operating results from the acquisition, of $1.62 for fiscal 2006 increased by 17 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $1.38 for fiscal 2005.
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $795 million, representing an increase of 9 percent from the prior year period. Strong sales in the Diabetes Care and Pharmaceutical Systems units contributed to the growth of the segment U.S. sales of safety-engineered products totaled $123 million compared with $115 million in the prior year's quarter. The growth rate of safety-engineered products benefited, in part, from a favorable comparison to the prior year's revenues, which were negatively impacted by reductions in inventory by a major U.S. distributor. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2006, U.S. sales of safety-engineered products totaled $255 million compared with $241 million in the prior year's period. Included in BD Medical revenues were international sales of safety-engineered products of $22 million compared with $21 million in the prior year's quarter. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2006, international sales of safety-engineered products totaled $44 million compared with $39 million in the prior year's period. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2006, the BD Medical segment reported 10 percent revenue growth.
Segment Results
.
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $434 million, representing an increase of 1 percent from the prior year period. The Preanalytical Systems unit of the segment reported revenue growth of 11 percent, benefiting from both BD Vacutainer Push Button Blood Collection Set sales in the current year's quarter and a favorable comparison to the prior year's revenues, which were negatively impacted by reductions in inventory by a major U.S. distributor. U.S. sales of safety-engineered products totaled $97 million compared with $79 million in the prior year's quarter. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2006, U.S. sales of safety-engineered products totaled $193 million compared with $165 million in the prior year's period. Included in Preanalytical Systems revenues were international sales of safety-engineered products of $55 million compared with $47 million in the prior year's quarter. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2006, international sales of safety-engineered products totaled $107 million compared with $91 million in the prior year's period. Second quarter revenues in the Diagnostic Systems unit of the segment declined 8%, despite strong sales from diagnostic instrument platforms. For the most part, this decline in revenues was due to a relatively mild flu season in fiscal 2006 compared with 2005, in both Japan and the U.S. To a lesser extent, second quarter revenues were negatively impacted by the timing of early sales of flu diagnostic tests in the first fiscal quarter of 2006 and a challenging comparison to exceptionally strong sales of flu diagnostic tests in the prior year's quarter in Japan. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2006, the BD Diagnostics segment reported 4 percent revenue growth.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues from continuing operations for the quarter were $220 million, representing an increase of 8 percent from the prior year period. Flow cytometry instrument and reagent sales continued to be the primary growth contributors. Sales in the Discovery Labware unit as well as sales of cell imaging products also contributed to sales growth. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2006, the BD Biosciences segment reported 9 percent revenue growth, representing continued strong sales of flow cytometry instruments and reagents.
Second quarter revenues in the U.S. were $702 million, representing an increase of 11 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside the U.S. were $748 million, representing an increase of 2 percent over the prior year period, and reflected an estimated 5 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Geographic Results
For the six-month period ended March 31, 2006, revenues in the U.S. were $1.383 billion, representing an increase of 10 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $1.481 billion, representing an increase of 6 percent over the prior year period, and reflected an estimated 4 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
The following analysis of estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the third and fourth fiscal quarters and full fiscal year identifies specified items that affect the comparability of results between periods.
Fiscal 2006 Outlook for Third and Fourth Quarters and Full Year
As illustrated in Table 2, the Company estimates that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, including the expected dilutive impact on operating results from the acquisition, will increase approximately 3-5 percent for the third fiscal quarter of 2006 over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of 74 cents for the third fiscal quarter of 2005. Excluding the expected dilutive impact of 3 cents on operating results from the acquisition, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the third fiscal quarter of 2006 are expected to be in the 79 to 81 cent range, representing an increase of 7-9 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of 74 cents for the third fiscal quarter of 2005.
The Company also estimates that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, including the expected dilutive impact on operating results from the acquisition, will increase approximately 5-8 percent for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006 over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of 76 cents for the fiscal year 2005. Excluding the expected dilutive impact of 3 cents on operating results from the acquisition, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006 are expected to be in the 83 to 85 cent range, representing an increase of 9-12 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of 76 cents for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2005.
For the full fiscal year 2006, the Company estimates that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, and including the expected dilutive impact on operating results from the acquisition, are expected to be in the $3.18 to $3.22 range, representing an increase of approximately 10-12 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding
specified items, of $2.88 for the fiscal year 2005. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full year 2006, excluding specified items and the expected dilutive impact of 7 cents on operating results from the acquisition, are expected to be in the $3.25 to $3.29 range, representing an increase of 13-14 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $2.88 for the fiscal year 2005.
A conference call regarding BD's second fiscal quarter results and its expectations for the third and fourth fiscal quarters will be broadcast live on BD's website, , at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Wednesday, April 26, 2006. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, , or at 1-800-272-5921 (domestic) and 1-402-220-9717 (international) through the close of business on Wednesday, May 3, 2006.
Conference Call Information
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these and other measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in this release and in the attached financial tables.
BD, a leading global medical technology company that makes and sells medical devices, instrumented systems and reagents, is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug therapy, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases, and advancing research and discovery of new drugs and vaccines. The Company's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs more than 25,000 people in approximately 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. For more information, please visit .
About BD
www.bd.com
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2006 Outlook for Third and Fourth Quarters and Full Year," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; further increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); the effects of potential pandemic diseases; changes in healthcare or other governmental regulation; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
NM - Not Meaningful
Page 1
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Three Months Ended March 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
Page 2
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
NM - Not Meaningful
Page 3
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
Page 4
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 5
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 6
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended March 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 7
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 8
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 9
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Six Months Ended March 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 10
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Six Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 11
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Six Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 12


