FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20060126074650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On January 26, 2006, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Additional Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Below are reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures used in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to the comparable GAAP measure:
 
The foregoing does not reflect any in-process R&D charge that may be recorded in connection with the anticipated acquisition of GeneOhm Sciences, Inc., as discussed in the press release.
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contain certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted principles (GAAP), as follows:
We also present income taxes and effective tax rate for the prior year's period after excluding the effects of significant reversals of tax reserves and the effects of changes in tax laws and regulations and other events that caused the tax rate for the quarter to vary from BD's then expected effective tax rate for the full year. Management provides these adjusted measures of income taxes and effective tax rate in order to facilitate comparisons to other periods.
We also present earnings per share from continuing operations on a prospective basis after excluding the expected dilutive impact from the anticipated acquisition of GeneOhm Sciences Inc. Management excludes this impact in order to improve the comparability of the period or periods being presented to prior periods where such impact was not recorded.
We also present earnings per share from continuing operations for prior periods after excluding (i) the effects of significant reversals of tax reserves, (ii) the effects of changes in tax laws and regulations and other events that caused the tax rate during the period to vary from BD's expected effective tax rate for the full year, and/or (iii) the impact on taxes of the planned repatriation of foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act. Significant reversals of tax reserves and the items mentioned above that effect our periodic effective tax rate cause fluctuations in BD's income from continuing operations from period to period that management believes are unrelated to BD's underlying operating performance. Accordingly, management believes that providing the impact of such effects allows investors to better understand BD's
 
 
comparative operating performance for the periods presented. In addition, management eliminates the effect of the repatriation of foreign earnings in order to improve comparability to other periods in which such expense was not recognized.
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability
 
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 26, 2006
 
 

 
1 Becton Drive
Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417
www.bd.com
 
 
 
Contact:
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453
Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
 
BD ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR FIRST FISCAL QUARTER
 
Franklin Lakes, NJ (January 26, 2006)
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported record quarterly revenues of $1.414 billion for the first fiscal quarter ended
December 31, 2005, representing an increase of 10 percent over the prior year period. This quarter's growth rate reflects an overall estimated 1 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which affected all segments.
 
"Our strong performance this quarter, and over the last five years, demonstrates that our strategy to drive growth through innovation, expand our margins by improving operating effectiveness and generate strong cash flow is working," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This strong performance enables us to continue to return value to shareholders and provides us the capacity to invest for the future. We are doing this primarily by increasing the pace of R&D spending and, as appropriate, through strategic investments, such as our recent agreement to acquire GeneOhm Sciences to drive our molecular diagnostics strategy."
 
Analysis of First Quarter Fiscal Year 2006 and 2005 Earnings
The following analysis of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005 identifies specified items that affect comparability of results between periods.
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
 
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of proceeds from insurance settlement concluded in the first fiscal quarter 2006.
(1)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of the reversal of tax reserves in connection with the conclusion of tax examinations in four non-U.S. jurisdictions.
(2)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of tax-related events that caused the first fiscal quarter 2005 tax rate to vary from the then expected effective tax rate for fiscal 2005.
(3)
 
Based on the foregoing analysis, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, for the first fiscal quarter of 2006 of 83 cents increased by 22 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of 68 cents for the first fiscal quarter of 2005.
 
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $771 million, representing an increase of 11 percent over the prior year period. Strong sales in the Pharmaceutical Systems and Diabetes Care units contributed to growth. U.S. sales of safety-engineered products totaled $132 million, compared with $126 million in the prior year's quarter. Included in BD Medical revenues were international sales of safety-engineered products of $22 million, compared with
$18 million in the prior year's quarter.
 
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $444 million, representing an increase of 7 percent over the prior year period. The Diagnostic Systems unit of the segment reported revenue growth of 8 percent, due primarily to strong sales of flu diagnostic tests, which totaled $27 million, compared with $18 million in the prior year's period. Solid sales growth from the BD ProbeTec and BD Phoenix instrument platforms also contributed to growth. The Preanalytical Systems unit of the segment reported revenue growth of 7 percent. U.S. sales of safety-engineered products totaled $96 million, compared with $86 million in the prior year's quarter. International sales of safety-engineered products totaled $52 million, compared with $42 million in the prior year's quarter.
 
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $200 million, representing an increase of 10 percent over the prior year period. Research instruments and reagent sales continued to be the primary growth contributors, driven by increased demand for both research analyzers and sorters.
 
 
 
 
Geographic Results
First quarter revenues in the U.S. were $681 million, representing an increase of 9 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside the U.S. were $733 million, representing an increase of 10 percent over the prior year period, and reflect an estimated 2 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
Planned Acquisition of GeneOhm Sciences, Inc.
On January 10, 2006 BD announced that it had signed an agreement to acquire GeneOhm Sciences, Inc. ("the acquisition"), a privately held company that has pioneered the development of molecular diagnostic testing for the rapid detection of bacterial organisms, including those known to cause healthcare-associated infections (HAIs). The acquisition is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close by the end of March 2006. As a result of the acquisition, the Company expects its diluted earnings per share from continuing operations would be reduced by an estimated 1 cent for the second quarter and 7 cents for the full fiscal year 2006 (see Table 2 below). In addition, the Company would reflect an in-process research and development charge, which would further reduce estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by approximately 20 to 25 cents.
 
Fiscal 2006 Outlook for Full Year and Second Quarter  Refer to Table 2 Below
The Company estimates that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items and the in-process research and development charge, and including the expected dilutive impact on operating results from the anticipated acquisition, will increase approximately 9-11 percent for the full fiscal year 2006 over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $2.88 for the fiscal year 2005.
 
The Company also estimates that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items and the in-process research and development charge, and including the expected dilutive impact on operating results from the anticipated acquisition, will increase approximately 6-7 percent for the second fiscal quarter of 2006 over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 71 cents for the second fiscal quarter of 2005.
 
For the six-month period ending March 31, 2006, the Company estimates that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items and the in-process research and development charge, and including the expected dilutive impact on operating results from the anticipated acquisition, will increase approximately 14-15 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $1.38 for the prior year period.
 
Consistent with our initial fiscal year guidance on November 3, 2005, second half fiscal year 2006 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding the expected dilutive impact on operating results from the anticipated acquisition, are expected to increase approximately 9-11 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $1.50 for the prior year period.
 
The following analysis of estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second fiscal quarter and full fiscal year identifies specified items that affect the comparability of results between periods.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Represents the effect on estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of estimated proceeds from insurance settlements. Full fiscal year 2006 estimate of approximately 5 cents reflects a settlement of $7 million completed in the first quarter (2 cents per diluted earnings per share from continuing operations) and approximately $12 million (3 cents per diluted earnings per share from continuing operations) from settlements anticipated to be completed in the second quarter.
(1)
Represents the effect on estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of the reversal of tax reserves in the first fiscal quarter of 2005 in connection with the conclusion of tax examinations in four non-U.S. jurisdictions.
(2)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of tax-related events that caused the quarterly tax rate to vary from the then expected effective tax rate for fiscal year 2005.
(3)
Does not include expected in-process research and development charge, resulting in an estimated impact of between 20 and 25 cents on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, which would be recorded upon closing of the acquisition.
(4)
Included in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 is
(5)
27 cents per diluted share substantially related to the impact on taxes of the planned repatriation of $1.3 billion of foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's first quarter results and its expectations for the second quarter and full fiscal year will be broadcast live on BD's website, , at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Thursday, January 26, 2006. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, , or at 1-800-937-5460 (domestic) and 1-203-369-3865 (international) through the close of business on February 1, 2006.
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
 
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these and other measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in this release, the attached financial tables, and BD's Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 26, 2006.
 
About BD
BD, a leading global medical technology company that makes and sells medical devices, instrumented systems and reagents, is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug therapy, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases, and advancing research and discovery of new drugs and vaccines. The Company's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs more than 25,000 people in approximately 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. For more information, please visit www.bd.com.
 
***
 
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2006 Outlook for Full Year and Second Quarter," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); changes in healthcare or other governmental regulation; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
 
 
 
 Page 1
 
 
 
(1) Represents proceeds from insurance settlement concluded in the first fiscal quarter 2006.
 
 
Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6
 
 
 


