FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20071101060102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
On November 1, 2007, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ending September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as follows:
Revenues
. We present revenue growth rates at constant foreign exchange rates. We believe that
presenting revenue growth rates at constant foreign exchange rates allows investors to view the
underlying operating results of BD and of its segments without the impact of fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating comparisons to prior periods.
Selling and Administrative Expense
. We present selling and administrative expense, both alone
and as a percentage of revenues, for fiscal year 2006 after excluding the impact of insurance
settlements occurring during the fiscal year. These settlements caused reported selling and
administrative expense to be lower than it otherwise would have been for the fiscal year, although
these settlements are not considered part of ordinary operations by management. Accordingly, we
believe that measures of selling and administrative expense that are adjusted for the effects of
these settlements are more indicative of BD's underlying performance and assist investors in
comparing BD's selling and administrative expense for the period to other periods.
Operating Income
. We present BD's operating income, both alone and as a percentage of revenues,
for fiscal year 2007 after excluding the impact of the in-process research and development
("R&D") charges relating to our acquisition of Plasso Technology, Ltd ("Plasso") and our acquisition of TriPath Imaging, Inc. ("TriPath"). We also present these measures for fiscal year 2006 after excluding the impact of the previously mentioned insurance settlements and the impact of the in-process R&D charge relating to the acquisition of GeneOhm Sciences, Inc. ("GeneOhm"). These items affected reported operating income for the period in which they occurred, but are not considered by management to be part of ordinary operations. Accordingly, management believes that these adjusted measures of operating income are more indicative of BD's underlying performance, and also allow investors to better understand BD's comparative operating performance for the period presented.
Income Taxes/Effective Tax Rate
. We present the effective tax rate for fiscal year 2007 after excluding the impact of the in-process R&D charges relating to our acquisitions of Plasso and TriPath, respectively. These items, which are not considered part of ordinary operations by management and are not tax deductible, caused our effective tax rate for the fiscal year to be higher than it otherwise would have been.
We also present income taxes and effective tax rate for fiscal year 2006 after excluding the impact of the previously mentioned insurance settlements. These settlements caused our reported income tax expense and effective tax rate for the fiscal year to be higher than they otherwise would have been, although these settlements are not considered part of ordinary operations by management. The adjusted effective tax rate we present for fiscal year 2006 also excludes the impact of the in-process R&D charge relating to our acquisition of GeneOhm. This item, which is not tax deductible, caused our effective tax rate for the fiscal year to be higher than it otherwise would have been, although this item is not considered part of ordinary operations by management.
Management believes that these adjusted measures of income taxes and effective tax rate are more indicative of BD's underlying results, and also allow investors to better understand BD's comparative income tax expense and tax rate for the fiscal year.
Income from Continuing Operations
. We present BD's income from continuing operations, both
alone and as a percentage of revenues, for fiscal year 2007 after excluding the impact of the in-
process R&D charges relating to the Plasso and TriPath acquisitions, respectively. We also present
BD's income from continuing operations, both alone and as a percentage of revenues, for fiscal year 2006 after excluding the impact of the previously mentioned insurance settlements and the in-process R&D charge relating to the GeneOhm acquisition. These items affected reported income
from continuing operations for the period in which they occurred, but are not considered by
management to be part of ordinary operations. Accordingly, management believes that these adjusted measures of income from continuing operations are more indicative of BD's underlying performance, and also allow investors to better understand BD's comparative income from continuing operations for the period presented.
Earnings Per Share
. We present earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2007 after excluding the impact of the in-process R&D charges relating to the TriPath and Plasso acquisitions, respectively. These charges caused reported earnings per share for the fiscal year to be lower than it otherwise would have been, although these charges are not considered by management to be part of ordinary operations. We believe that a measure of earnings per share that is adjusted for the impact of these charges is more indicative of BD's underlying performance and also allows investors to more easily compare BD's results for the fiscal year to other periods.
We also present earnings per share from continuing operations for the 2006 fiscal year after excluding the impact of the previously mentioned insurance settlements and the in-process R&D charge relating to the GeneOhm acquisition. These items affected reported earnings per share for the fiscal year, but are not considered by management to be part of ordinary operations. Accordingly, management believes that this adjusted measure of earnings per share is more indicative of BD's underlying performance, and also allows investors to better understand BD's comparative performance for the fiscal year.
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 1, 2007
 
 

1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
Franklin Lakes, NJ (November 1, 2007)
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported record quarterly revenues of $1.651 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007, representing an increase of 13 percent over the prior year period. This quarter's growth rate reflects the favorable impact on all segments from foreign currency translation, which overall is estimated to account for 3 percentage points of the increase in quarterly revenues.
For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, BD reported record revenues of $6.360 billion, representing an increase of 11 percent over the prior year, which reflects an overall estimated 3 percent favorable impact from foreign currency translation that affected all segments.
"We are pleased with our solid finish to another successful year during which BD exceeded its financial and operating goals," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our performance was strong across all three segments. We continue to invest in innovation while delivering double-digit earnings growth. Strong cash flow driven by operating margin expansion enables us to return value to shareholders through dividend increases and share repurchases. We are enthusiastic about our outlook for fiscal 2008."
Fourth Quarter Earnings and Analysis of Full Fiscal Year 2007 and 2006 Earnings
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 98 cents for the fourth quarter increased by 15 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 85 cents for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006.
For the twelve-month period ending September 30, 2007, reported diluted earnings per share were $3.36. The following analysis (Table 1) of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the twelve-month periods ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 identifies specified items that affect the comparability of results between periods. As illustrated, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $3.84 for fiscal 2007 increased by 15 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $3.34 for fiscal 2006.
(1)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of the in-process research and development ("IPR&D") charges recorded in fiscal 2007 primarily related to the TriPath acquisition, and in fiscal 2006 related to the GeneOhm acquisition.
(2)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in fiscal 2006 related to proceeds received from insurance settlements associated with the Company's previously owned latex glove business.
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $868 million, representing an increase of 11 percent from the prior year period. For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, the BD Medical segment reported 10 percent revenue growth to $3.421 billion. Strong sales in the Pharmaceutical Systems unit continued to significantly contribute to the growth of the segment.
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $498 million, representing an increase of 16 percent from the prior year's quarter. This growth includes $29 million of revenues from TriPath, a maker of innovative solutions to improve the clinical management of cancer, which was acquired at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2007. For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, the BD Diagnostics segment reported revenue growth of 11 percent to $1.905 billion, which includes $88 million of revenues from TriPath.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $285 million, representing an increase of 14 percent from the prior year period. Sales of flow cytometry and bioimaging instruments, flow cytometry reagents, and advanced bioprocessing products contributed to growth. For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, the BD Biosciences segment reported 13 percent revenue growth to $1.034 billion, resulting from continued strong sales of those same products.
Geographic Results
Fourth quarter revenues in the U.S. were $790 million, representing an increase of 12 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside the U.S. were $861 million, representing an increase of 13 percent over the prior year period, and reflected an estimated 5 percent favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, revenues in the U.S. were $3.033 billion, representing an increase of 11 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $3.327 billion, representing an increase of 11 percent over the prior year period, and reflected an estimated 5 percent favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Fiscal 2008 Outlook for Full Year
The Company estimates that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full fiscal year 2008 will increase approximately 10 to 12 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $3.84 for the fiscal year 2007.
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's fourth fiscal quarter and full year results and its expectations for fiscal year 2008 will be broadcast live on BD's website,
www.bd.com/investors
, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Thursday, November 1, 2007. The conference call will be available for replay through the close of business on November 8, 2007 on BD's website,
www.bd.com/investors
, or at 1-800-475-6701 (domestic) and 1-320-365-3844 (international), access code 889224.
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these and other measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in this release and in the attached financial tables.
About BD
BD, a leading global medical technology company that manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents, is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug therapy, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases, and advancing research and discovery of new drugs and vaccines. The Company's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 28,000 people in approximately 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. For more information, please visit
www.bd.com
.
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2008 Outlook for Full Year," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product
introductions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; further increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); the effects of potential pandemic diseases; changes in healthcare or other governmental regulation; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
Page 1
Page 2
 
Page 3
Page 4
Page 5
Page 6
Page 7
Page 8
Page 9
Page 10
Page 11


