FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20070125070503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted principles (GAAP), as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
BD's underlying performance, and also allow investors to better understand BD's comparative operating performance for the period presented.
 
 
 
 
We also present earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 after excluding the impact of insurance settlements, and for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 and the full 2006 fiscal year after excluding the impact of these settlements and the in-process R&D charge relating to the GeneOhm acquisition. These items affected reported earnings per share for the period in which they occurred, but are not considered by management to be part of ordinary operations. Accordingly, management believes that these adjusted
 
measures of earnings per share are more indicative of BD's underlying performance, and also allow investors to better understand BD's comparative performance for the period presented.
 
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
 
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
 
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 25, 2007
 
 

1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
 
BD ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR FIRST FISCAL QUARTER
 
Franklin Lakes, NJ (January 25, 2007)
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported record quarterly revenues of $1.502 billion for the first fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2006, representing an increase of 8 percent over the prior year period. This quarter's growth rate reflects the favorable impact on all segments from foreign currency translation, which overall is estimated to account for 2 percentage points of the growth.
 
"We are pleased with our strong start to fiscal 2007," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Increased sales of safety-engineered devices, prefillable drug delivery devices, and Biosciences products demonstrate the breadth of our growth drivers. Higher margin products and increased operating effectiveness continued to expand our operating profit margin. This performance has enabled us to increase the pace of our R&D spending while delivering double-digit earnings growth."
 
TriPath Imaging Acquisition Completed
On December 20, 2006, BD completed its acquisition of TriPath Imaging, a maker of innovative solutions to improve the clinical management of cancer. The Company recorded an in-process research and development charge of $115 million associated with the acquisition, which reduced diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by 45 cents in the first quarter (see Table 1 below).
 
 
 
 
BGM Product Line Sold
Following the receipt of an unsolicited offer during the quarter, the Company sold the blood glucose monitoring (BGM) product line for $20 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $15 million. Consequently, the results of operations of the BGM product line have been classified as discontinued operations for all quarters and years referred to in this release. Included in the attached financial tables are the Company's Consolidated Income Statements for fiscal year 2006, which reflect this classification change.
 
Analysis of First Quarter Fiscal Year 2007 and 2006 Earnings
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was 51 cents for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, which included the in-process research and development charge of 45 cents related to the TriPath acquisition. The following analysis of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and 2006 identifies specified items that affect comparability of results between periods. As illustrated in Table 1, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified item, for the first fiscal quarter of 2007 of 96 cents increased by 12 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of
86 cents for the first fiscal quarter of 2006.
 
 
 
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of the in-process research and development charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 related to the TriPath acquisition.
(1)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations related to proceeds received from insurance settlements regarding the Company's previously owned latex glove business.
(2)
 
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $826 million, representing an increase of 10 percent over the prior year period. Strong sales of Pharmaceutical Systems products and safety-engineered devices contributed to growth.
 
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $442 million, representing an increase of 2 percent over the prior year period. The Preanalytical Systems unit of the segment reported revenue growth of 8 percent due to strong sales of safety-engineered devices. Revenues in the Diagnostic Systems unit of the segment decreased 5 percent. The decline in sales of flu diagnostics tests, as compared to strong sales in the prior year period, more than offset double-digit growth from the BD ProbeTec ET and BD Phoenix instruments.
 
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $233 million, representing an increase of 11 percent over the prior year period. Research instruments and reagent sales continued to be the primary growth contributors, driven by increased demand for research analyzers and clinical reagents.
 
 
 
 
Geographic Results
First quarter revenues in the U.S. were $721 million, representing an increase of 9 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside the U.S. were $781 million, representing an increase of 7 percent over the prior year period, and reflect an estimated 4 percent favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
Fiscal 2007 Outlook for Full Year
 
The following analysis of estimated diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full fiscal year identifies specified items that affect the comparability of results between periods. As illustrated in Table 2, the Company estimates that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified item, for the full fiscal year 2007 will be in the $3.71 to $3.77 range, representing an increase of approximately 11 to 13 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $3.34 for the fiscal year 2006.
 
 
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of the in-process research and development charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 related to the TriPath acquisition and in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 related to the GeneOhm acquisition.
(1)
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations related to proceeds received from insurance settlements regarding the Company's previously owned latex glove business.
(2)
 
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's first quarter results and its expectations for the full fiscal year will be broadcast live on BD's website, , at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Thursday, January 25, 2007. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, , or at 1-866-427-6404 (domestic) and 1-203-369-0894 (international) through the close of business on February 1, 2007.
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
 
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these and other measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in this release and the attached financial tables.
 
About BD
BD, a leading global medical technology company that manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents, is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug therapy, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases, and advancing research and discovery of new drugs and vaccines. The Company's
 
 
capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 27,000 people in approximately 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. For more information, please visit www.bd.com.
***
 
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2007 Outlook for Full Year," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; further increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); the effects of potential pandemic diseases; changes in healthcare or other governmental regulation; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8
 
 
 
 


