FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20080423060119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02      RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On April 23, 2008, Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as follows:
Revenues
. We present international and total company revenue growth rates at constant foreign exchange
rates. We believe that presenting revenue growth rates at constant foreign exchange rates allows investors
to view the underlying operating results of BD and of its segments without the impact of fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating comparisons to prior periods.
Operating Income
. We present BD's operating income, both alone and as a percentage of revenues, for the
first six months of fiscal year 2007 after excluding the impact of the in-process research and development
("R&D") charge relating to our acquisition of TriPath Imaging, Inc. ("TriPath"). This charge affected
reported operating income for the period, but is not considered by management to be part of ordinary
operations. Accordingly, management believes that these adjusted measures of operating income are more
indicative of BD's underlying performance, and allow investors to better understand BD's comparative
operating performance for the period.
Effective Tax Rate
. We present the effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal year 2007 after
excluding the impact of the in-process R&D charge relating to our acquisition of TriPath. This charge,
which is not considered part of ordinary operations by management and is not tax deductible, caused our
effective tax rate for the fiscal year to be higher than it otherwise would have been. Management believes
that this adjusted measure of our effective tax rate is more indicative of BD's underlying results, and allows
investors to better understand BD's comparative effective tax rate for the period.
Income from Continuing Operations
. We present BD's income from continuing operations, both alone and
as a percentage of revenues, for the first six months of fiscal year 2007 after excluding the impact of the in-
process R&D charge relating to the TriPath acquisition. This item affected reported income from
continuing operations for the period, but is not considered by management to be part of ordinary operations.
Accordingly, management believes that these adjusted measures of income from continuing operations are more indicative of BD's underlying performance, and allow investors to better understand BD's comparative income from continuing operations for the period.
Earnings Per Share
. We present earnings per share from continuing operations for the first six months of
fiscal year 2007 after excluding the impact of the in-process R&D charge relating to the TriPath acquisition,
and for the 2007 fiscal year after excluding the impact of the in-process R&D charges relating to the
TriPath acquisition and our acquisition of Plasso Technology, Ltd. These charges caused reported earnings
per share for such periods to be lower than they otherwise would have been, although these charges are not
considered by management to be part of ordinary operations. We believe that measures of earnings per
share that are adjusted for the impact of these charges is more indicative of BD's underlying performance
and allow investors to more easily compare BD's results for the period to other periods.
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 23, 2008
 
 

1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
BD ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR SECOND FISCAL QUARTER
 
Earnings per share from continuing operations increased 18% to $1.09;
Company raises earnings guidance for full fiscal year
 
Franklin Lakes, NJ (April 23, 2008)
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported record quarterly revenues of $1.747 billion for the second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008, representing an increase of 11 percent over the prior year period. This quarter's revenue growth rate reflects the favorable impact on all segments from foreign currency translation, which overall is estimated to account for 5 percentage points of the increase in quarterly revenues.
 
"We are pleased with our strong results, which were once again driven by solid company-wide revenue growth and disciplined spending controls that more than offset the headwind we have been facing as a result of increasing raw material costs," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Accordingly, we are increasing our earnings guidance for the full year."
 
Second Quarter and Six-Month Period of Fiscal Year 2008 and 2007 Earnings
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.09 for the second quarter increased by 18 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 92 cents for the second fiscal quarter of 2007. For the six-month period ending March 31, 2008, reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.16. For the six-month period ending March 31, 2007, reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.44. The following analysis (Table 1) of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the six-month periods ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 identifies the specified item that affects comparability of results between periods. As illustrated, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.16 for fiscal 2008 increased by 14 percent over comparable fiscal 2007 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.89, which exclude the specified item.
 
 
 
 
 
Represents the effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of the in-process research and development charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 related to the TriPath acquisition.
(1)
 
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $922 million, representing an increase of 9 percent from the prior year period. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2008, the BD Medical segment reported 10 percent revenue growth. Pharmaceutical Systems and Diabetes Care products led revenue growth in the segment.
 
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $531 million, representing an increase of 12 percent from the prior year's quarter. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2008, the BD Diagnostics segment reported 15 percent revenue growth. Sales of safety-engineered devices, TriPath products, and molecular testing systems, including GeneOhm, contributed to revenue growth.
 
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $294 million, representing an increase of 14 percent from the prior year's quarter. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2008, the BD Biosciences segment reported 16 percent revenue growth. Demand for research instruments as well as clinical and research reagents continued to be the primary growth drivers.
 
Geographic Results
Second quarter revenues in the U.S. were $784 million, representing an increase of 4 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside the U.S. were $963 million, representing an increase of 17 percent over the prior year period, with approximately 10 percentage points of the increase resulting from the favorable impact of foreign currency translation.
 
For the six-month period ended March 31, 2008, revenues in the U.S. were $1.574 billion, representing an increase of 7 percent over the prior year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $1.879 billion, representing an increase of 17 percent over the prior year period, with approximately 10 percentage points of the increase resulting from the favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
Fiscal 2008 Outlook for Full Year
 
The Company raised its guidance for full fiscal year 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to approximately 13 to 14 percent from approximately 11 to 13 percent over adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.84 for the full fiscal year 2007. Reported
 
 
 
 
 
diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full fiscal year 2007 were $3.36, which included 48 cents for in-process research and development charges related to the TriPath and Plasso acquisitions. Excluding these charges, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full fiscal year 2007 were $3.84.
 
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's second fiscal quarter results and its expectations for the full fiscal year will be broadcast live on BD's website, www.bd.com/investors, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Wednesday, April 23, 2008. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, www.bd.com/investors, or at 800-388-6197 (domestic) and 402-220-1115 (international), Conference ID: 7BDX, through the close of business on Wednesday, April 30, 2008.
 
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these and other measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in this release and in the attached financial tables.
 
About BD
BD, a leading global medical technology company that manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents, is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug therapy, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases, and advancing research and discovery of new drugs and vaccines. The Company's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 28,000 people in approximately 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, industry and the general public. For more information, please visit www.bd.com.
***
 
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2008 Outlook for Full Year," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions; further increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); the effects of potential pandemic diseases; changes in healthcare or other governmental regulation; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in BD's filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Page 1
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
NM - Not Meaningful
(1) Total per share amounts may not add due to rounding
Page 2
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
(1) Represents the acquired in-process research and development charge of $114,739 related to the TriPath acquisition.
(2) Represents the acquired in-process research and development charges related to the TriPath and Plasso acquisitions.
Page 3
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 4
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 5
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended March 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
(1) Cell Analysis consists of the Immunocytometry Systems and the Pharmingen units that were previously reported separately.
Page 6
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
(1) Cell Analysis consists of the Immunocytometry Systems and the Pharmingen units that were previously reported separately.
Page 7
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
(1) Cell Analysis consists of the Immunocytometry Systems and the Pharmingen units that were previously reported separately.
Page 8
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Six Months Ended March 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
(1) Cell Analysis consists of the Immunocytometry Systems and the Pharmingen units that were previously reported separately.
Page 9
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Six Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
(1) Cell Analysis consists of the Immunocytometry Systems and the Pharmingen units that were previously reported separately.
Page 10
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Six Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
(1) Cell Analysis consists of the Immunocytometry Systems and the Pharmingen units that were previously reported separately.
Page 11


