FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20091104060204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On November 4, 2009, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ending September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP measures"). As described below, certain of these non-GAAP measures eliminate the effect of the charge relating to our pending settlement of certain antitrust class action suits (the "Litigation Charge") and the tax benefit relating to various tax settlements (the "Tax Benefit") that occurred in fiscal year 2009. In addition, during fiscal year 2009, the U.S. dollar strengthened significantly against most foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, compared to rates from fiscal year 2008. As a result, foreign currency translation impacted our operating results to a greater degree than we have typically experienced. Accordingly, certain non-GAAP measures eliminate the effect of foreign currency translation, including gains from our hedging activities.
 
 
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
 
A reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP measure is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
On October 19, 2009, Gen-Probe Incorporated ("Gen-Probe") filed a patent infringement action against BD in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. The complaint alleges that certain specimen collection products of BD infringe eight U.S. patents of Gen-Probe. Gen-Probe is seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to this action and intend to defend this matter vigorously.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 4, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
Contact:
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported quarterly revenues of $1.898 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009, representing an increase of 5 percent from the prior-year period, or 8 percent excluding the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (November 4, 2009)
For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, BD reported revenues of $7.161 billion, representing an increase of 1 percent over the prior year, or 5 percent excluding the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
"The achievement of solid fourth quarter performance, in particular BD Medical and BD Diagnostics, marks the conclusion of another successful year for BD," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "This strong finish to the year provides a platform for growth in fiscal 2010 and gives us confidence we will achieve our stated long-term goals."
Fourth Quarter Earnings and Analysis of Full Fiscal Year 2009 and 2008 Earnings
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.25 for the fourth quarter of 2009 increased by 13 percent over reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.11 for the fourth quarter of 2008. On a currency-neutral basis, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 increased 17 percent.
 
 
The preceding analysis (Table 1) of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the twelve-month periods ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 identifies the specified items that affect comparability of results between periods. As illustrated, fiscal year 2009 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.92 included the third quarter tax benefit of 8 cents and the second quarter charge of 11 cents relating to a pending antitrust class action settlement. Excluding these specified items, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the twelve-month period in fiscal year 2009 were $4.95, representing an increase of 12 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.42 from the prior-year period. On a currency-neutral basis, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the twelve-month period ending September 30, 2009 increased 10 percent.
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $1 billion, representing an increase of 8 percent from the prior-year period, or 13 percent excluding the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Strong sales of Pharmaceutical Systems products, as expected, and solid sales of Medical Surgical Systems products contributed to revenue growth; both included a favorable impact from flu-related sales. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2009, the BD Medical segment reported flat revenue growth. On a currency-neutral basis, BD Medical revenues for the twelve-month period increased by 6 percent to $3.731 billion.
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $580 million, representing an increase of 5 percent from the prior-year period or 8 percent excluding the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Sales of safety-engineered devices, cancer diagnostics products and infectious disease testing systems, including flu-related products, contributed to revenue growth. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2009, the BD Diagnostics segment reported 3 percent revenue growth to $2.226 billion. On a currency-neutral basis, BD Diagnostics revenues for the twelve-month period increased by 7 percent.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $312 million, representing a decrease of 5 percent from the prior-year period, or a decrease of 4 percent excluding the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Demand in the U.S. for capital equipment in the research and clinical segments continued to be impacted by funding constraints. International revenue growth continued to moderate as well. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2009, the BD Biosciences segment reported 1 percent revenue growth to $1.204 billion. On a currency-neutral basis, BD Biosciences revenues for the twelve-month period increased by 2 percent.
Geographic Results
Fourth quarter revenues in the U.S. were $840 million, representing an increase of 6 percent from the prior-year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $1.058 billion, representing an increase of 4 percent from the prior-year period, or 10 percent excluding the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2009, revenues in the U.S. were $3.205 billion, representing an increase of 3 percent from the prior-year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $3.956 billion, representing flat growth from the prior-year period, or 7 percent growth excluding the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
Fiscal 2010 Outlook for Full Year
The Company estimates that reported revenues for the full fiscal year 2010 will increase about 6 percent, or 5 to 6 percent excluding the estimated favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
The Company expects diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full fiscal year 2010 to increase approximately 1 to 3 percent over adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $4.95 for the fiscal year 2009, or 7 to 9 percent excluding the estimated unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's fourth fiscal quarter and full year results and its expectations for fiscal year 2010 will be broadcast live on BD's website, , along with related slides, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Wednesday, November 4, 2009. The conference call will be available for replay through the close of business on November 11, 2009 on BD's website, , or at 1-800-642-1687 (domestic) and 1-706-645-9291 (international), access code 34687454.
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these and other measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in this release and in the attached financial tables, as well as in the Form 8-K that BD filed today with the SEC.
About BD
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in approximately 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit .
www.bd.com
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2010 Outlook for Full Year," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, a number of factors could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement. For instance, various healthcare reform proposals, if enacted, would impose an excise tax applicable to medical device manufacturers, including BD, and these may be effective in calendar year 2010. Other factors include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions, including any impact that may result from the current global economic downturn on our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, the demand for our products and services, or our suppliers' ability to provide products needed for our operations; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in light of increased volatility in currency exchange rates; potential healthcare reform, including changes in government pricing and reimbursement policies or
 
other cost containment reforms; competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); the effects of potential pandemic diseases; our ability to successfully integrate any businesses we acquire; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
NM  Not Meaningful
Page 1
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
NM  Not Meaningful
Page 2
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 3
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 4
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended September 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 5
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 6
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 7
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 8
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 9
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 10
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION SAFETY REVENUES (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 11

 


