FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20090428060233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On April 28, 2009, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its second fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as follows:
Revenues
. We present international and total company revenue growth rates (including
revenues relating to our safety-engineered devices) at constant foreign exchange rates. We believe that this allows investors to view the underlying operating results of BD and
of its segments without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating comparisons to prior periods.
Selling and Administrative Expense
. We present selling and administrative expense,
both alone and as a percentage of revenues, for the quarter and first six months of fiscal
year 2009 after excluding the impact of the charge relating to our agreement to settle certain antitrust class action suits. This charge caused reported
selling and administrative expense to be higher for these periods than it otherwise would
have been, but is not considered by management to be part of ordinary operations.
Accordingly, management believes that these adjusted measures of selling and
administrative expense are more indicative of BD's performance, and allow investors to more easily compare BD's selling and administrative expense for these periods to other periods.
Operating Income
. We present BD's operating income, both alone and as a percentage of
revenues, for the quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2009 after excluding the
impact of the charge relating to our agreement to settle certain
antitrust class action suits. This charge caused reported operating income for these
periods to be lower than it otherwise would have been, but is not considered by
management to be part of ordinary operations. Accordingly, management believes that
these adjusted measures of operating income are more indicative of BD's performance,
and allow investors to more easily compare BD's operating income for these periods to
other periods.
Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rate
. We present BD's income taxes and effective tax
rate for the quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2009 after excluding the impact of
the charge relating to our agreement to settle certain antitrust
class action suits. This charge caused both our income taxes and our effective tax rate for
these periods to be lower than they otherwise would have been, but is not considered by
management to be part of ordinary operations. Accordingly, management believes that
these adjusted measures of income taxes and effective tax rate are more indicative of
BD's results, and allow investors to more easily compare BD's income taxes and
effective tax rate for these periods to other periods.
Income from Continuing Operations
. We present BD's income from continuing
operations, both alone and as a percentage of revenues, for the quarter and first six
months of fiscal year 2009 after excluding the impact of the charge relating to our agreement to settle certain antitrust class action suits. This
charge caused reported income from continuing operations for these periods to be lower
than it otherwise would have been, but is not considered by management to be part of
ordinary operations. Accordingly, management believes that these adjusted measures of
income from continuing operations are more indicative of BD's performance, and allow
investors to more easily compare BD's operating income from continuing operations for
these periods to other periods.
Earnings Per Share
. We present BD's diluted earnings per share for the quarter and first
six months of fiscal year 2009 after excluding the impact of the charge relating to our agreement to settle certain antitrust class action suits. This
charge caused reported diluted earnings per share for these periods to be lower than it
otherwise would have been, but is not considered by management to be part of ordinary
operations. Accordingly, management believes that these adjusted measures of diluted
earnings per share are more indicative of BD's performance, and allow investors to more
easily compare BD's diluted earnings per share for these periods to other periods.
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
ITEM 8.01     OTHER EVENTS
On April 27, 2009, BD entered into a settlement agreement with the direct purchaser plaintiffs (which includes BD's distributors) in the following antitrust class actions:
Louisiana Wholesale Drug Company, Inc., et. al. vs. Becton Dickinson and Company
(Civil Action No. 05-1602, U.S. District Court, Newark, New Jersey), filed on March 25, 2005; (Case 2:05-CV-04763-JD, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania), filed on
SAJ Distributors, Inc. et. al. vs. Becton Dickinson & Co.
September 6, 2005;
Dik Drug Company, et. al. vs. Becton, Dickinson and Company
(Case No. 2:05-CV-04465, U.S. District Court, Newark, New Jersey), filed on September 12, 2005;
American Sales Company, Inc. et. al. vs. Becton, Dickinson & Co.
(Case No. 2:05-CV-05212-CRM, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania), filed on October 3, 2005; and(Case 2:05-CV-05678- CMR, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania), filed on October 26, 2005. These actions have been consolidated under the captionas has been reported in the past, most recently in the Company's Form 10-K for 2008. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, which is subject to preliminary and final approval by the court following notice to potential class members, the Company will pay $45 million into a settlement fund in exchange for a release by all potential class members of the direct purchaser claims related to the products and acts enumerated in the Complaint, as well as a dismissal of the case with prejudice. The release would not cover potential class members which affirmatively opt out of the settlement. No settlement has been reached to date with the indirect purchaser plaintiffs in these cases, which will continue to the extent these cases relate to their claims.
Park Surgical Co. Inc. et. al. vs. Becton, Dickinson and Company
"In re Hypodermic Products Antitrust Litigation",
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 28, 2009
 

1 Becton Drive
Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417
www.bd.com
Contact:
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Reports earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.06, or $1.18 after
excluding specified item
Reaffirms guidance for full fiscal year 2009 earnings per share from continuing
operations, excluding specified item
Franklin Lakes, NJ (April 28, 2009)
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported quarterly revenues of $1.741 billion for the second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009, representing a decrease of 0.4 percent from the prior year period. This quarter's revenue growth rate reflects the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which overall is estimated to account for 3.4 percentage points.
"In the face of global economic pressures, we are pleased to have achieved top-line growth in all three segments after adjusting for the negative impact of foreign currency translation. This growth, along with our continued focus on disciplined expense and currency risk management, has enabled us to deliver adjusted earnings in line with our expectations," stated Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our strong performance for the first half of fiscal 2009, combined with our commitment to continue to drive efficiency throughout BD, gives us the confidence to reaffirm our guidance for full-year
adjusted
earnings."
Second Quarter and Six-Month Period of Fiscal Year 2009 and 2008 Earnings
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter were $1.06. Second quarter results included a pre-tax charge of $45 million (11 cents diluted earnings per share from continuing operations) relating to the settlement agreement with the direct purchaser plaintiffs (which includes BD's distributors) in the antitrust class actions, as described in BD's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC today. Second quarter fiscal 2009 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding the charge of 11 cents, of $1.18 increased by 8 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.09 for the prior year period. For the six-month period ending March 31, 2009, reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.32. Excluding the aforementioned charge of 11 cents, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the six-month period in fiscal 2009 were $2.43, representing an increase of 12.5 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.16 from the prior year period.
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $897 million, representing a decrease of 3 percent from the prior year period after taking into account an estimated 5 percentage points of unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. On a currency neutral basis, the increase in worldwide sales of Medical Surgical Systems products was offset in part by the expected decline in sales of prefillable devices in the U.S. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2009, the BD Medical segment reported a 2 percent decrease in revenue growth after taking into account an estimated 4 percentage points of unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. On a currency neutral basis, BD Medical revenues for the six-month period increased by 2 percent.
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $540 million, representing
an increase of 2 percent from the prior year period after taking into account an estimated 3 percentage
points of unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Increased sales of safety-engineered devices, cancer diagnostics products and infectious disease testing systems were partially offset by a decline in the sales of flu testing products due to a mild flu season in the U.S. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2009, the BD Diagnostics segment reported 3 percent revenue growth after taking into account an estimated 3 percentage points of unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. On a currency neutral basis, BD Diagnostics revenues for the six-month period increased by 6 percent.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $304 million, representing an increase of 3 percent from the prior year period. Strong international sales growth of research instruments and reagents, primarily in Western Europe and Japan, were offset in part by a slowdown in research-related capital spending in the U.S., particularly in the academic and biotech markets. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2009, the BD Biosciences segment reported 7 percent revenue growth after taking into account an estimated 1 percentage point favorable impact from foreign currency translation. On a currency neutral basis, BD Biosciences revenues for the six-month period increased by 6 percent.
Geographic Results
Second quarter revenues in the U.S. were $778 million, representing a decrease of 1 percent from the prior year period. Revenues outside the U.S. were $963 million, representing flat revenues from the prior year period, and reflect an estimated 6 percentage points of unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
For the six-month period ended March 31, 2009, revenues in the U.S. were $1.587 billion, representing an increase of 1 percent from the prior year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $1.887 billion, representing an increase of 0.5 percent from the prior year period, and reflect an estimated 6 percentage points of unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Fiscal 2009 Outlook for Full Year
Excluding the specified item, the Company reaffirms that diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full fiscal year 2009 will increase approximately 9 to 11 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.46 for the fiscal year 2008. The Company expects that reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full fiscal year 2009 will
increase 7 to 9 percent.
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's second fiscal quarter results and its expectations for the full fiscal year will be broadcast live on BD's website,
www.bd.com/investors
, along with related slides, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, April 28, 2009. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website,
www.bd.com/investors
, or at 800-642-1687 (domestic) and 706-645-9291 (international), Conference ID: 92219921, through the close of business on Tuesday, May 5, 2009.
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these and other measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in this release and in the attached financial tables.
About BD
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 28,000 people in approximately 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit
www.bd.com
.
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2009 Outlook for Full Year," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions, including any impact that may result from the current global economic downturn on our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, the demand for our products and services, or our suppliers' ability to provide products needed for our operations; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in light of increased volatility in currency exchange rates; competitive factors; pricing
and market share pressures; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); the effects of potential pandemic diseases; changes in healthcare or other governmental regulation, including changes in government pricing and reimbursement policies or other cost containment reforms; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in this press release and in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
(1) Represents the charge relating to the settlement agreement with the direct purchaser plaintiffs (which includes BD's distributors) in the antitrust class actions.


