FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20100726165336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     Christopher Jones has been elected to the Board of Directors of Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD"), effective July 26, 2010, at which time he will become a member of each of the Audit Committee and the Corporate and Scientific Affairs Committee of the Board. A copy of the press release issued by BD in connection with Mr. Jones' election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Information regarding the compensation of the non-management members of our Board of Directors is included under the caption "Non-Management Directors' Compensation" in our proxy statement relating to our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated July 26, 2010, which is filed pursuant to Item 5.02.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 26, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
: Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369 Sherry Bertner, Investor Relations  201-847-5453
Contact
BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE:BDX), a leading global medical technology company, announced today that it has elected Christopher Jones to its Board of Directors, effective today.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (July 26, 2010) 
Mr. Jones, 55, is the former Chief Executive Officer of JWT Worldwide (previously known as J. Walter Thompson), one of the world's largest advertising agencies. He retired from JWT Worldwide in 2001 after 24 years of distinguished service at the firm, including leading its U.K. business and serving as President of Global Clients prior to being appointed CEO.
"We are honored to welcome Chris Jones to the BD Board," said Edward J. Ludwig, BD Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Chris brings to the Board unique global expertise and perspective developed through his extensive and diverse international business experiences. He is also a seasoned global marketing expert who will offer valuable insight as BD expands its business into growing and emerging markets."
Mr. Jones is currently an active leader in many business and not-for-profit organizations. He serves as Operating Partner, outside director and member of the Adjudications Committee at Cognetas LLP, a pan-European private equity firm. He is also a director of Central Trust PLC, a British financial services firm, and the non-executive Chairman of Results International Group, a leading corporate finance and strategy advisor to the global marketing communications industry.
In the healthcare arena, Mr. Jones chairs the board of The Pavilion Clinic, which provides diagnostic services in the U.K., and is a board member and advisor to the musculo-skeletal surgical group at the Oxford Clinic. He has also been a member of the Health Advisory Board at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health since 1997.
Mr. Jones is a Trustee and member of the Executive Committee at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, Chairman of the Governors at the Dragon School and a Governor of St. Edward's School.
Mr. Jones is a graduate of Cambridge University in the U.K.
 
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in more than 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit www.bd.com.
With his election, the BD board will consist of 14 members, all of whom are independent with the exception of Mr. Ludwig.
About BD


