FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20100128060212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On January 28, 2010, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its first fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP measures"), as follows:
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 28, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
News Release
Patricia A. Spinella, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported quarterly revenues of $1.917 billion for the first fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009, representing an increase of 12 percent from the prior-year period, or 9 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (January 28, 2010)
"We are pleased with our solid start to fiscal 2010. Our BD Medical and BD Diagnostics segments led our revenue growth, aided by flu-related sales," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our revenue growth, good operating performance and a stabilizing Biosciences business this quarter give us the confidence to raise guidance for fiscal 2010."
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were $1.30, an increase of 4 percent over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.25 for the first quarter of
 
2009. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 increased 11 percent.
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $1.019 billion, representing an increase of 16 percent from the prior-year period, or 13 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Strong sales of Medical Surgical Systems and Pharmaceutical Systems products, including about 7 percentage points from flu-related products, as well as Diabetes Care products contributed to revenue growth.
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $595 million, representing an increase of 10 percent from the prior-year period, or 8 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Sales of safety-engineered devices and infectious disease testing systems, including about 2 percentage points from flu-related products, contributed to revenue growth.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues of $303 million for the quarter were flat compared with the prior-year period. Revenues increased less than 1 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Demand for clinical and research instruments, as expected, continues to be impacted by capital funding constraints.
Geographic Results
First quarter revenues in the U.S. were $873 million, representing an increase of 10 percent from the prior-year period. Revenues outside the U.S. were $1.044 billion, representing an increase of 13 percent from the prior-year period, or 8.5 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
 
Fiscal 2010 Outlook
We expect reported revenues for the full fiscal year 2010 to increase approximately 7 percent, or 6 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis, compared with our prior guidance of 6 percent, or 5 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
We also expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full fiscal year 2010 to increase approximately 2 to 4 percent, to $5.05 to $5.15, over adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified items, of $4.95 for the fiscal year 2009, or 8 to 10 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Our prior guidance was an increase of 1 to 3 percent, or 7 to 9 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's first quarter results and its expectations for the full fiscal year will be broadcast live on BD's website, , along with related slides, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Thursday, January 28, 2010. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, , or at 1-800-642-1687 (domestic) and 1-706-645-9291 (international) through the close of business on February 4, 2010, access code 49382392.
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the attached financial tables.
 
About BD
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in approximately 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit .
www.bd.com
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2010 Outlook for Full Year," contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues, earnings per share and income, or events or developments that BD expects to occur or anticipates occurring in the future. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, a number of factors could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement. For instance, various healthcare reform proposals, if enacted, would impose an excise tax applicable to medical device manufacturers, including BD. Other factors include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions, including any impact that may result from the current global economic downturn on our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, the demand for our products and services, or our suppliers' ability to provide products needed for our operations; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in light of increased volatility in currency exchange rates; changes in government pricing and reimbursement policies or other healthcare cost containment reforms; competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); the effects of potential pandemic diseases; our ability to successfully integrate any businesses we acquire; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
NM  Not Meaningful
Page 1
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 2
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended December 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 3
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended December 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 4
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended December 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 5
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION SAFETY REVENUES (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 6

Exhibit 99.2
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations ("EPS") for fiscal year ("FY") 2009
 
First quarter FY2010 foreign currency-neutral EPS growth
FY 2010 EPS Outlook
The FY2010 impact of - 6% represents the year-on-year change due to estimated foreign currency translation, including hedging activities, as follows:
 


