FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20101103172816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On November 3, 2010, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ending September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP measures"), as follows:
     BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
     BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
     Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
Table of Contents
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November  3, 2010
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
News Release
Zachary A. Nagle, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
BD ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR 2010 FOURTH FISCAL QUARTER AND FULL YEAR
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX), a leading global medical technology company, today reported quarterly revenues of $1.873 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010, representing an increase of 1.0 percent from the prior-year period, or 2.9 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (November 3, 2010)
 
For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, BD reported revenues of $7.372 billion, representing an increase of 5.5 percent over the prior year, or 5.6 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
The Company also plans to repurchase $1.5 billion of its common stock in 2011 and an additional $600 million in 2012. The Company plans to fund the repurchases through ongoing cash flow and the issuance of debt.
"We are proud of our accomplishments during 2010. We met our financial and operational goals despite the challenging macroeconomic climate facing our industry," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our solid performance has enabled us to continue to return significant value to shareholders and also to invest in key geographic expansion, new product platforms and businesses and operational excellence programs. We have confidence in our outlook for fiscal year 2011 and remain committed to serving our customers with superior healthcare products."
Update on the Sale of Certain Assets in the BD Medical Segment
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, the Company completed the sale of the Ophthalmic Systems unit as well as the surgical blades, critical care and extended dwell catheter product platforms. The results of operations associated with the Ophthalmic Systems unit, surgical blade platform and critical care platform have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all quarters and years referred to in this release.
 
As illustrated on page 3 of the attached financial tables, diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations for the fourth quarter of $0.44 consisted of $0.06 from operations and $0.39 from the gain on the sale. Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of $1.68 less the $0.44 from discontinued operations resulted in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.24. Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations for the year of $0.59 consisted of $0.21 from operations and $0.38 from the gain on the sale. Diluted earnings per share for the year of $5.49 less the $0.59 from discontinued operations resulted in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.90.
Also included in the attached financial tables are the Company's Consolidated Income Statements for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2010 and for all periods in fiscal year 2009 for reference, which reflect the reclassification change for the Ophthalmic Systems unit, surgical blade platform and critical care platform. The results of operations associated with the extended dwell catheter product platform are reported within continuing operations, as this asset group did not meet the criteria for discontinued operations.
Fourth Quarter Earnings and Analysis of the Full Fiscal Year 2010 and 2009 Earnings
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter were $1.24, compared with $1.20 in the prior-year period, representing a 3.3 percent increase. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter increased by 1.7 percent.
 
For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $4.90, compared with $4.73 in the prior fiscal year, representing an increase of 3.6 percent. Current full fiscal year results include a previously disclosed non-cash charge of $8.9 million, or $0.04 per share from continuing operations, related to healthcare reform impacting Medicare Part D reimbursements. The prior fiscal year included a $20 million, or $0.08 per share, tax benefit related to various tax settlements in multiple jurisdictions and a litigation charge of $45 million, or $0.11 per share, which were also previously disclosed. Excluding these items, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 3.8 percent to $4.94, compared with $4.76 adjusted diluted earnings per share in the prior-year period. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fiscal year increased 9.2 percent.
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $959 million, representing a decrease of 0.3 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues increased 2.1 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Segment revenue growth reflected an unfavorable comparison to the prior year of 4.3 percentage points due to the sales related to the H1N1 flu pandemic in fiscal year 2009, partially offset by strong growth in the Diabetes Care business. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2010, BD Medical revenues increased 6.7 percent, or 6.2 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $591 million, representing an increase of 2.0 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 3.1 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Segment revenue growth was negatively impacted by 2.4 percentage points due to sales
 
related to the flu pandemic in fiscal year 2009 in addition to lower lab testing and reduced physician office visits. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2010, BD Diagnostics revenues increased 4.2 percent, or 4.0 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $323 million, representing an increase of 3.5 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues increased 5.3 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis, primarily driven by instrument and reagent sales in the Cell Analysis business unit. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2010, BD Biosciences revenues increased 4.4 percent, or 6.8 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Geographic Results
Fourth quarter revenues in the U.S. were $832 million, representing an increase of 1.4 percent compared with the prior-year period, including a negative impact of 1.8 percentage points related to the flu pandemic. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $1.041 billion, representing an increase of 0.8 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 4.2 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. International revenue growth was negatively impacted by 4 percentage points due to the H1N1 flu pandemic-related sales in fiscal year 2009. Revenues reflected continuing strength in emerging markets, which was partially offset by slower growth in Europe. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2010, revenues in the U.S. were $3.287 billion, representing an increase of 5.0 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $4.086 billion, representing an increase of 5.9 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 6.0 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
 
Fiscal 2011 Outlook for Full Year
The Company estimates that reported revenues for the full fiscal year 2011 will increase about 4 percent. The Company also expects reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 to be between $5.45 and $5.55, an increase of approximately 11 to 13 percent over fiscal year 2010. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 are expected to increase 10 to 12 percent over adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified item, of $4.94 for the fiscal year 2010.
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's fourth quarter results and its expectations for the full fiscal year 2011 will be broadcast live on BD's website, www.bd.com/investors, along with related slides, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Thursday, November 4, 2010. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, www.bd.com/investors, or at 1-800-642-1687 (domestic) and 1-706-645-9291 (international) through the close of business on Thursday, November 11, 2010, access code 15660232.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these and other non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial tables and the Form 8-K that BD filed today with the SEC.
About BD
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of
 
diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in more than 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit www.bd.com.
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2011 Outlook", contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues and earnings per share. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, a number of factors could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement. These factors include, but are not limited to: the unknown consequences of the recently-enacted healthcare reform in the United States, including the impact of the reduction in Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and other customers, which could reduce demand for our products and increase downward pricing pressure; adverse changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions, including any impact that may result from the current global economic downturn on our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, the demand for our products and services, or our suppliers' ability to provide products needed for our operations; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates
;
competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; new or changing laws impacting our business or changes in enforcement practices with respect to such laws; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); future healthcare reform, including changes in government pricing and reimbursement policies or other cost containment reforms; the effects of potential pandemic diseases; our ability to successfully integrate any businesses we acquire; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
Page 1
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
Page 2
 
Becton Dickinson and Company Supplemental Income Statement Information  Fiscal 2010 Revised for discontinued operations of certain Medical segment divestitures (Unaudited: Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
 
Page 3
 
Becton Dickinson and Company Supplemental Income Statement Information  Fiscal 2009 and 2008 Revised for discontinued operations of certain Medical segment divestitures (Unaudited: Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
Page 4
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 5
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 6
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended September 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 7
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 8
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 9
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 10
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 11
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 12
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION SAFETY REVENUES (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 13
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS FISCAL 2010 Revised for discontinued operations of certain Medical segment divestitures (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
 
Page 14
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS FISCAL 2009 Revised for discontinued operations of certain Medical segment divestitures (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per-share data)
 
Page 15
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION SAFETY REVENUES FISCAL 2010 Revised for discontinued operations of certain Medical segment divestitures (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 16
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION SAFETY REVENUES FISCAL 2009 Revised for discontinued operations of certain Medical segment divestitures (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 17

Exhibit 99.2
Fiscal year ("FY") 2009 adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations ("EPS")
 
FY 2010 adjusted EPS
 
 
Fourth quarter FY2010 foreign currency-neutral EPS growth
FY2010 foreign currency-neutral EPS growth


