FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20100429061551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On April 29, 2010, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its second fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP measures"), as follows:
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 29, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
News Release
Sherry L. Bertner, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX) today reported quarterly revenues of $1.845 billion for the second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010, representing an increase of 7.0 percent from the prior-year period, or 6.6 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (April 29, 2010)
"We are pleased with our second quarter results, which are in line with the Company's expectations," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Solid revenue growth in our Medical segment and a continued improvement in our Biosciences segment offset lower than expected growth in our Diagnostics segment. Our strong overall operating performance for the first half of fiscal 2010 gives us the confidence to reaffirm our guidance for full-year adjusted earnings."
 
Second Quarter and Six-Month Fiscal 2010 Operating Results
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter were $1.24 compared with $1.05 in the prior-year period. Current quarter results included a non-cash charge of $8.9 million, or $0.04 per share from continuing operations related to healthcare reform impacting Medicare Part D reimbursements, and the prior-year period included a litigation charge of $45 million, or $0.11 per share. Excluding these items, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 8.5 percent to $1.27, compared with $1.17 adjusted earnings per share in the prior-year period. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter increased by 16.2 percent.
For the six-month period ending March 31, 2010, reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.53 compared with $2.30 in the prior-year period. Excluding the aforementioned charges, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.57, an increase of 6.6 percent over adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.41 in the prior-year period. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the six-month period increased 14.1 percent.
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $967 million, representing an increase of 9.7 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 7.8 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Revenues reflect strong sales of Diabetes Care and Pharmaceutical Systems products. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2010, BD Medical revenues increased 13.0 percent, or 10.2 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
 
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $556 million, representing an increase of 3.0 percent compared with the prior-year period. Segment revenues increased 2.7 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis, impacted by a reduction in lab testing and a decline in flu-related testing due to an exceptionally mild flu season. These were offset by strong growth in cancer and STD product platforms. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2010, BD Diagnostics revenues increased 6.6 percent, or 5.4 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $322 million, representing an increase of 6.0 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues increased 9.8 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis, driven by Cell Analysis and Discovery Labware growth in certain markets. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2010, BD Biosciences revenues increased by 3.0 percent, or 5.2 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Geographic Results
Second quarter revenues in the U.S. were $810 million, representing an increase of 6.0 percent from the prior-year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $1.035 billion, representing an increase of 7.7 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 7.0 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
For the six-month period ended March 31, 2010, revenues in the U.S. were $1.683 billion, representing an increase of 7.9 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $2.078 billion, representing an increase of 10.4 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 7.8 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
 
Fiscal 2010 Outlook
We expect reported revenues for the full year fiscal 2010 to increase approximately 6 percent, or about 1 percent less than our previously communicated guidance due to currency fluctuations. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, we expect revenues to increase approximately 6 percent, which is in line with our previously communicated guidance.
We also expect reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full year fiscal 2010 to be $5.01 to $5.11. Excluding the aforementioned charge of $0.04 related to healthcare reform impacting Medicare Part D reimbursements, we reaffirm our guidance that we expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full year fiscal 2010 will increase approximately 2 to 4 percent to $5.05 to $5.15, or 8 to 10 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. This is compared to adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding the litigation charge of $0.11 and a tax benefit adjustment of $0.08, of $4.95 for fiscal year 2009. Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009 were $4.92.
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's second quarter results and its expectations for the full fiscal year will be broadcast live on BD's website, , along with related slides, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Thursday, April 29, 2010. The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, , or at 1-800-642-1687 (domestic) and 1-706-645-9291 (international) through the close of business on May 6, 2010, access code 67104728.
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these and other non- GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial tables and the Form 8-K that BD filed today with the SEC.
About BD
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in more than 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit www.bd.com.
This press release contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues and earnings per share. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, a number of factors could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement. These factors include, but are not limited to: the unknown consequences of the recently-enacted healthcare reform in the United States, including the impact of the reduction in Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and other customers, which could reduce demand for our products and increase downward pricing pressure; adverse changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions, including any impact that may result from the current global economic downturn on our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, the demand for our products and services, or our suppliers' ability to provide products
 
needed for our operations; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates
;
competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); future healthcare reform, including changes in government pricing and reimbursement policies or other cost containment reforms; the effects of potential pandemic diseases; our ability to successfully integrate any businesses we acquire; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
NM  Not Meaningful
(1) Total per share amounts may not add due to rounding
Page 1
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
NM  Not Meaningful
Page 2
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 3
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 4
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended March 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 5
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 6
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 7
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Six Months Ended March 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 8
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Six Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 9
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Six Months Ended March 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 10
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION SAFETY REVENUES (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 11

Exhibit 99.2
Second quarter and first six months fiscal year ("FY") 2009 adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations ("EPS")
Second quarter and first six months FY 2010 adjusted EPS
Full year FY 2009 adjusted EPS
 
 
Second quarter FY2010 foreign currency-neutral EPS growth
First six months FY2010 foreign currency-neutral EPS growth
FY 2010 EPS Outlook
     (1) Represents impact of charge related to health care reform impacting Medicare Part D reimbursements.
     The FY2010 impact of 6% represents the year-on-year change due to estimated foreign currency translation, including hedging activities, as follows:
 


