FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20110729103550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers, Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On July 26, 2011, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") announced that Vincent A. Forlenza has been elected Chief Executive Officer and President of BD, and as a member of the BD Board of Directors, effective October 1, 2011. Also effective October 1, 2011, Edward J. Ludwig, BD's current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will serve as executive Chairman of the Board, and will serve in that capacity through June 2012.
A copy of the press release regarding Mr. Forlenza's election is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Mr. Forlenza, 58, has served as BD's President since January 2009, and added the additional title of Chief Operating Officer in July 2010. Prior to becoming President, Mr. Forlenza served as Executive Vice President from June 2006 to January 2009.
In connection with his election, Mr. Forlenza's annual salary will increase to $900,000, effective October 1, 2011, and his target annual incentive award for fiscal year 2012 will increase to 120%.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On July 26, 2011, the Board of Directors of BD amended BD's By-Laws to: (i) authorize the chairman to adjourn a shareholders meeting if a quorum is not present, (ii) provide for majority voting with respect to the election of directors, (iii) reflect the change in name of the Corporate and Scientific Affairs Committee to the Science, Technology and Innovation Committee, (iv) authorize the issuance of uncertificated shares of stock, (v) provide that any elimination or amendment to the indemnification provisions in the By-Laws would not affect any rights to indemnification arising prior to such elimination or amendment; and (vi) revise provisions relating to the setting of record dates for shareholder action by written consent. Certain other clarifying changes were also made to the By-Laws. A copy of BD's By-Laws as amended as of July 26, 2011 is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this report.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 29, 2011
 

Exhibit 3.1
     The registered office of Becton, Dickinson and Company (the "Company") shall be in the Borough of Franklin Lakes, County of Bergen, State of New Jersey or such other place within or without the State of New Jersey as the Board of Directors may designate. The Company may also establish and have such other offices within or without the State of New Jersey, as the Board of Directors may designate or its business may require.
     SECTION 1. PLACE OF MEETINGS. Meetings of the shareholders shall be held at the registered office of the Company in New Jersey, or at such other place, within or without the State of New Jersey, as may be designated by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting.
     SECTION 2.A. ANNUAL MEETINGS. The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of Directors and the transaction of such other business as may be related to the purposes set forth in the notice of the meeting shall be held at such time as may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
     B. SPECIAL MEETING FOR ELECTION OF DIRECTORS. If the annual meeting of shareholders is not held on the date designated, the Board of Directors may call a special meeting of the shareholders for the election of Directors and the transaction of other business.
     C. SPECIAL MEETINGS. (a) Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board or by the Chief Executive Officer or by the President, and shall be called by the Chairman of the Board or by the Chief Executive Officer or by the President upon written request of a majority of the Directors then in office, which request shall state the time, place and purpose of the meeting. Subject to the other provisions of this Section 2.C, a special meeting of shareholders shall be called by the Secretary at the written request (a "Special Meeting Request") of holders of record of at least 25% of the voting power of the outstanding capital stock of the Company entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be brought before the proposed special meeting. Such Special Meeting Request must be made in proper written form as specified in subsection (b) of this Section 2.C. This Section 2.C is the exclusive means by which a shareholder may nominate persons for election to the Board of Directors and/or present other business at a special meeting of shareholders.
 
     (b) A Special Meeting Request to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company, and shall be signed by each shareholder, or a duly authorized agent of such shareholder, requesting the special meeting. To be in proper written form, a Special Meeting Request must set forth (i) all the information required under subsection (c)(i) and/or (ii) of Article II, Section 2.D of these By-Laws, as applicable, with respect to the nominations or other business proposed to be brought before such special meeting; (ii) all of the information required to be set forth in a shareholder's notice under subsections (c)(iii) through (ix) of Article II, Section 2.D of these By-Laws with respect to each shareholder requesting such meeting; (iii) all information relating to each such shareholder that would be required to be disclosed in connection with the shareholder's solicitation of proxies for the election of directors in an election contest (even if an election contest is not involved), and all information, whether or not relating to such shareholder, that would otherwise be required in connection with the shareholder's solicitation of proxies with respect to the matters proposed to be acted upon at the meeting, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and (iv) an acknowledgment by such shareholder that any disposition of shares of common stock of the Company held of record by such shareholder as of the date of delivery of the Special Meeting Request and prior to the record date for the special meeting of shareholders requested by such shareholder shall constitute a revocation of such request with respect to such shares.
     (c) The Secretary shall (as promptly as practicable but in no event more than ten days following delivery of a Special Meeting Request that complies with subsection (b) of this Section 2.C) determine whether the request has been made by shareholders owning and holding, in the aggregate, the number of shares necessary to request a special meeting pursuant to this Section 2.C. Upon the Secretary's finding that holders of the requisite number of shares have made the request, the Board shall determine (as promptly as practicable but in no event more than ten days following the date of the Secretary's finding), with the advice of counsel, whether the request is valid under the criteria set forth in subsection (d) of this Section 2.C, and if the request is determined to be valid shall proceed to fix a date, time and place for the meeting, which date shall be not more than 90 days after the receipt of the Special Meeting Request. Subject to the preceding sentence, in fixing a date and time for a special meeting pursuant to a Special Meeting Request, the Board of Directors may consider such factors as it deems relevant within the good faith exercise of business judgment, including, without limitation, the nature of the matters to be considered, the facts and circumstances surrounding any request for meeting and any plan of the Board of Directors to call an annual meeting or a special meeting, and nothing herein will limit the power of the Board of Directors or the chair appointed for any annual or special meeting in respect of the conduct of any such meeting.
     (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.C, a special meeting requested by shareholders shall not be held if: (i) an annual or special meeting of shareholders that included an identical or substantially similar item of business ("Similar Business") (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors) was held not more than 120 days before the Special Meeting Request was received by the Secretary; (ii) the Board of Directors has called or calls for an annual or special meeting of shareholders to be held within 90 days after the Special Meeting Request is received by the Secretary and the Board of Directors determines in good faith that the business to be conducted at such
 
meeting includes the Similar Business. For purposes of this Section 2.C, the election of directors shall be deemed to be Similar Business with respect to all items of business involving the election or removal of directors, changing the size of the Board of Directors and filling of vacancies and/or newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors; or (iii) the Special Meeting Request relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for shareholder action under applicable law.
     (e) A shareholder may revoke a Special Meeting Request at any time by written revocation delivered to the Secretary, and if, following such revocation, there are outstanding un-revoked requests from shareholders holding less than the requisite number of shares of common stock entitling such shareholders to request the calling of a special meeting in accordance with this Section 2.C, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, cancel the special meeting. If none of the shareholders who submitted the Special Meeting Request appears or sends a duly authorized agent to present the business to be presented for consideration that was specified in the Special Meeting Request, the Company need not present such business for a vote at such special meeting.
     (f) Business conducted at a special meeting requested by shareholders shall be limited to the matters described in the applicable Special Meeting Request and set forth in the applicable notice of meeting, provided that nothing herein shall prohibit the Board of Directors from submitting additional matters to the shareholders at any such special meeting requested by shareholders.
     D. (a) ADVANCE NOTICE OF NOMINATIONS AND BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED AT ANNUAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS. No business may be transacted and no nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders, other than business and nominations that are either: (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof); (ii) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof); or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any shareholder of the Company (1) who is a shareholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2.D. and on the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting, and (2) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.D.
     (b) . In addition to any other applicable requirements, for any business or nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder under subsection 2.D(a)(iii) above, such shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Company. To be timely, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for on a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder in order to be timely must be so received not earlier than the 120 day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90 day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which
Notice
provided
however
th
th
 
such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
     Notwithstanding anything in the first sentence of the preceding paragraph to the contrary, in the event that the number of Directors to be elected to the Board of Directors is increased and there is no notice or public disclosure by the Company naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholder's notice required by this Section 2.D. shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made.
     (c)  To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice under subsection 2.D(a)(iii)(2) to the Secretary must set forth:
Required contents of notice.
     (i) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a Director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected);
     (ii) as to each other matter such shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting;
     (iii) the name and record address of such shareholder;
     (iv) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Company that are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder, together with proof of ownership if requested by the Company;
     (v) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding between or among such shareholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with such proposal of such business or nomination by such shareholder, and any material interest of such shareholder in such business or nomination;
     (vi) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging or similar transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the shareholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such shareholder, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such shareholder with respect to shares of stock of the Company;
 
     (vii) a representation that the shareholder will notify the Company in writing of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding referenced in clause (vi) above (including any amendment or modification thereto) in effect as of the record date for the annual meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed;
     (viii) a representation that such shareholder is a holder of record of capital stock of the Company and is entitled to vote at the annual meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business or nomination before the meeting; and
     (ix) a representation whether the shareholder intends, or is part of a group which intends, (1) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Company's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee, and/or (2) otherwise to solicit proxies from shareholders in support of such proposal or nomination. In addition, a shareholder seeking to submit such business at an annual meeting shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Company.
     (d) No business or nomination for director shall be conducted at the annual meeting of shareholders except business or nominations brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.D; , , that, once such business or nomination has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 2.D. shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any shareholder of any such business or nomination. In addition, only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.D shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of the Company. If the chairman of an annual meeting determines that such business or nomination was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that such business or nomination was not properly brought before the meeting, and such business shall not be transacted or such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
provided
however
     (e) The provisions of this Section 2.D shall not be applicable to any shareholder proposal submitted for inclusion in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     SECTION 3. QUORUM; ADJOURNMENT. The presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at a meeting shall constitute a quorum. If a quorum is not present at any meeting, the chairman of the meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice, other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present; that if after adjournment the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record on the new record date entitled to vote. The shareholders present in person or by proxy at a duly organized meeting may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of
provided
 
enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum. The chairman of the meeting or a majority of the shareholders present in person, or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting without notice. At such adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
     SECTION 4. NOTICE OF MEETINGS. A written notice of each annual or special meeting of the shareholders of the Company, signed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or the President or the Secretary, which shall state the time, place and purpose of such meeting, shall be given not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of any such meeting, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, the notice shall be directed to the shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the stock transfer agent. Any shareholder, in person or by proxy, may at any time by a duly signed statement in writing to that effect, waive any statutory or other notice of any meeting, whether such statement be signed before or after such meeting.
     SECTION 5. VOTING. (a) . At all meetings of the shareholders, each holder of common stock having the right to vote, and present at the meeting in person or by proxy, shall be entitled to one vote for each full share of common stock of the Company entitled to vote and registered in his or her name. Each holder of preferred stock of any series shall have such voting powers, if any, as the Board of Directors shall have fixed by resolution prior to the issuance of any shares of such series. Whenever any action is to be taken by vote of the shareholders, other than the election of Directors, it shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of the shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote, unless a greater plurality is required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation.
General
     (b) . Except as otherwise required by law, a nominee for director shall be elected at a meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present if the number of votes cast, in person or by proxy by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon, "for" such nominee's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" such nominee's election; provided, that if the number of director nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, a nominee shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, in person or by proxy, by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon at any such meeting. Any incumbent director who is not elected at such meeting shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee will make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the offer to resign, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors will act on such recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results.
Election of Directors
     SECTION 6. PROXIES. Any shareholder of record entitled to vote may be represented at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders by a duly appointed proxy. All proxies shall be filed with the Secretary of the meeting before being voted.
     SECTION 7. ORGANIZATION. The Chairman of the Board, or in the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board or if a vacancy exists in the office of Chairman of the Board, a director or officer designated by the Board of Directors shall act as
 
chairman of the meeting at all meetings of the shareholders. The Secretary, or in his or her absence or disability one of the Assistant Secretaries, shall act as secretary of the meeting. In case none of the officers above designated to act as secretary of the meeting shall be present, a secretary of the meeting shall be chosen by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 8. ORDER OF BUSINESS. The order of business at all meetings of the shareholders shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting, but the order of business to be followed at any meeting at which a quorum is present may be changed by a vote of the shareholders.
     SECTION 9. RECORD DATE FOR ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT. In order that the Company may determine the shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting in accordance with law, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 60 days before the date fixed by the Board of Directors for tabulation of the consents or, if no date has been fixed for tabulation, more than 60 days before the last day on which consents received may be counted. When no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, any shareholder of record seeking to have the shareholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 30 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 30 days after the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Company by delivery to its registered office in New Jersey, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Company having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of shareholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Company's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Nothing in this Article II, Section 9 shall require the Board of Directors to take any action with respect to any proposed action or other proposal for which consent is sought other than to fix a record date as provided for herein; and the fixing of any such record date shall not be deemed to be an action taken by the Board of Directors with respect to any such proposed action or other proposal for which consent is sought for any other purpose.
     SECTION 10. INSPECTORS OF WRITTEN CONSENT. In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Article II, Section 9, to the Company of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Company shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the
 
consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Company that the consents delivered to the Company in accordance with Article II, Section 9 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any shareholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
     SECTION 11. EFFECTIVENESS OF WRITTEN CONSENT. Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each shareholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, on or before the date fixed by the Board of Directors for tabulation of the consents or, if no such date has been fixed, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Article II, Section 9, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Company in the manner prescribed in Article II, Section 9 and are not thereafter revoked in accordance with the New Jersey Business Corporation Act.
     SECTION 1. QUALIFICATIONS. Each Director shall be at least 21 years of age and shall be elected in the manner provided by the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws.
     SECTION 2. DUTIES AND POWERS. The Board of Directors shall manage the business and affairs of the Company, and shall exercise all powers of the Company and perform all acts which are not required to be exercised or performed by the shareholders. The Board of Directors may adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of its meetings and the management of the Company as it may deem proper.
     SECTION 3. PLACE OF MEETINGS. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at the principal office of the Company or at such other place within or without the State of New Jersey, as the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors may designate.
     SECTION 4. TELEPHONE MEETINGS. Any or all Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof by means of conference telephone or any means of communication by which all persons participating in the meeting are able to hear each other.
     SECTION 5. NOTICE OF MEETINGS. There shall be an annual meeting of the Board of Directors held without notice on the date of the annual meeting of shareholders, or as soon thereafter as convenient, at the same place as the annual meeting
 
of shareholders unless some other location is designated by the Chairman of the Board or by the President. Regular meetings, without notice, may be held at such time and place as the Board of Directors may designate. The Chairman of the Board or the President may call any special meeting of the Board of Directors, and shall do so whenever requested in writing by at least one-third of the Directors. Notice of each special meeting shall be mailed to each Director at least four days before the date on which the meeting is to be held, or be telephoned or sent to each Director by fax, e-mail, telegraph, telex, TWX, cable, wireless or similar means of electronic communication, or be delivered in person, not later than the day before the date on which such meeting is to be held. The Board of Directors may meet to transact business at any time and place without notice, provided that each Director shall be present, or that any Director or Directors not present shall waive notice in writing, either before or after such meeting. The attendance of any Director at a meeting without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice by him or her. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting. Notice of an adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place are fixed at the meeting adjourning, and if the period of adjournment does not exceed 10 days in any one adjournment.
     SECTION 6. QUORUM. A majority of the Directors then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but the Director or Directors present, if less than a quorum, may adjourn any meeting from time-to-time until such quorum shall be present. All questions coming before the Board of Directors shall be determined and decided by a majority vote of the Directors present, unless the vote of a greater number is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
     SECTION 7. ACTION WITHOUT A MEETING. The Board of Directors may act without a meeting if, prior or subsequent to such action, each Director shall consent in writing to such action. Such written consent or consents shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 8. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors may, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office, fix reasonable fees or compensation of the Directors for services to the Company, including attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors or committees thereof. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Director from serving the Company in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Each Director shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties.
     SECTION 1. HOW CONSTITUTED AND POWERS. The Board of Directors, by resolution of a majority of the Directors then in office, shall appoint from among its members (i) Audit, (ii) Compensation and Benefits, (iii) Science, Innovation and Technology, (iv) Corporate Governance and Nominating, and (v) Executive Committees, and may appoint one or more other committees. The Board of Directors shall designate one member of each committee as its chair. If the chair of a committee is unavailable to
 
attend or participate in a committee meeting, the committee members attending or participating in the meeting shall designate one member to serve as the committee's acting chair for the meeting.
Each committee's purpose, membership, and authority and responsibilities shall be set forth in its charter established by the Board of Directors, which shall be posted on the Company's website, To the extent provided in these By-laws, in each committee's charter, or by any resolution conferring or limiting its powers, each committee shall have and may exercise all the authority of the Board of Directors, except that no committee shall:
www.bd.com.
The Board of Directors, by resolution of a majority of the Directors then in office, may fill any vacancy in any committee; appoint one or more alternate members of any committee to act in the absence or disability of members of such committees with all the powers of such absent or disabled members; or remove any Director from membership on any committee.
     SECTION 2. MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES. Each committee may make its own rules of procedure and shall meet as provided by such rules or by resolution of the Board of Directors, and shall also meet at the call of the chair of the committee, the Chairman of the Board, the President, or a majority of the members of the committee.
     A majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of all of the members of a committee shall be necessary for the adoption of a resolution or to approve any matter within the scope of the authority of a committee. Minutes of the proceedings of a committee shall be recorded in a book provided for that purpose and filed with the Secretary of the Company. A committee may act without a meeting if, prior or subsequent to such action, each member shall consent in writing to such action. Such written consent or consents shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the committee.
 
     Action taken by a committee, with or without a meeting, shall be reported to the Board of Directors at its next regular meeting following such committee action; except that, when the meeting of the Board of Directors is held within two days after the committee action, such report, if not made at the first meeting, shall be made to the Board of Directors at its second meeting following such action.
     SECTION 1. ENUMERATION, APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL. The corporate officers of the Company shall be a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Treasurer, a Secretary, and such other corporate officers (including assistant corporate officers) as the Board of Directors may deem necessary or desirable for the transaction of the business of the Company. In its discretion, the Board of Directors may leave unfilled any office except those of the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, and should any vacancy occur among said officers by death, resignation or otherwise, the same shall be filled at the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors or at a special meeting. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person. The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors then in office, shall designate the Chairman of the Board or the President to serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
     The corporate officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors, subject to the power of the Board of Directors to remove any corporate officer at its pleasure by an affirmative vote of the majority of the Directors then in office.
     Every corporate officer shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the Company as may be provided in these By-laws, or such duties consistent with these By-laws as may be assigned by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
     The Chief Executive Officer shall have the authority to appoint persons to the position of Senior Vice President, Vice President or another Vice President designation with respect to any business unit or function within the Company. Such persons shall not be deemed to be corporate officers solely by virtue of such appointment.
     SECTION 2. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders, and shall perform such other duties as these By-laws or the Board of Directors may prescribe. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board or if a vacancy exists in the office of Chairman of the Board, the Board of Directors shall designate a director or officer who shall have all the powers and perform all the duties of the Chairman of the Board.
     SECTION 3. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general charge and supervision over and responsibility for the business and affairs of the Company. He or she shall keep the Board of Directors fully informed
 
concerning those areas in his or her charge, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 4. PRESIDENT. The President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided by statute or these By-laws, and as may be assigned by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
     SECTION 5. TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the Company funds and securities, maintain banking relationships and execute credit and collection policies. He or she shall perform such other duties and possess such other powers as are incident to his or her office.
     SECTION 6. SECRETARY. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders, and shall record all proceedings of such meetings in books to be kept for that purpose. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and the Board of Directors. He or she shall have the custody of the seal of the Company and shall affix the same to all instruments requiring it, and attest the same. He or she shall perform such other duties and possess such other powers as are incident to his or her office.
     SECTION 1. FORM AND TRANSFERS. Subject to the following sentence, the interest of each shareholder of the Company shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of capital stock, certifying the number of shares represented thereby. However, the board of directors may provide that some or all of the shares of any class or series of stock of the Company shall be represented by uncertificated shares.
     Transfers of shares of the capital stock of the Company shall be made only on the books of the Company, which shall include the books of the stock transfer agent, by the registered holder thereof, or by his or her attorney authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary of the Company, or a transfer agent appointed as provided in Section 4 of this Article, and, except in the case of uncertificated shares, on surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed and the payment of all taxes thereon. The person in whose name shares of capital stock stand on the books of the Company shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes. The Board of Directors may, from time-to-time, make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer, and registration of certificates for shares of the capital stock of the Company. Certificates shall be signed by, or in the name of the Company by, the Chairman, the President or a Vice President who is a corporate officer, and may be countersigned by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and may be sealed with the seal of the Company or a facsimile thereof. Any or all signatures upon a certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate, shall have ceased to be such corporate officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Company with the
 
same effect as if he were such corporate officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of its issue.
     SECTION 2. FIXING RECORD DATE. Except as provided in Article II, Section 9 with respect to the setting a record date for action by written consent of shareholders, for the purpose of determining the shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or an adjournment thereof, or for the purpose of determining the shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or allotment of any right, or for the purpose of any other action, the Board of Directors shall fix a date not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the date of any such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action, as the record date for any such determination of shareholders.
     SECTION 3. LOST, STOLEN, DESTROYED OR MUTILATED CERTIFICATES. No certificate for shares of capital stock in the Company shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Company, if the Board of Directors shall so require, of a bond of indemnity upon such terms and secured by such surety as the Board of Directors may in its discretion require. A new certificate may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, it is proper to do so.
     SECTION 4. TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars, and may require all certificates of capital stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them. One corporation may serve as both transfer agent and registrar.
     SECTION 5. EXAMINATION OF BOOKS BY SHAREHOLDERS. So far as it is not inconsistent with law, the Board of Directors shall have power to determine, from time-to-time, whether, to what extent, at what times and places, and under what conditions and regulations the books and records of account, minutes of the proceedings of the shareholders, the Board of Directors and any committee of the Board, and other documents of the Company, or any of them, shall be open to inspection of the shareholders.
     SECTION 6. VOTING SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board and the President, or either of them, shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Company to attend and to act and to vote at any meeting of shareholders of any corporation in which the Company may hold stock, and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock, and which, as the owner thereof, the Company might have possessed and exercised if present. The Board of Directors, by resolution, from time-to-time, may confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
 
     Dividends may be declared and paid at such times and in such amounts as the Board of Directors may in its absolute discretion determine and designate, subject to the restrictions and limitations imposed by law.
     Unless otherwise required or permitted by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation, by these By-laws, or by resolution of the Board of Directors, any corporate officer may execute in the name of the Company, contracts or other instruments and filings in the ordinary course of business, or contracts or other instruments and filings not in the ordinary course of business which are authorized, either generally or specifically, by the Board of Directors, and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary shall affix the Company seal thereto and attest the same, if required.
     The fiscal year of the Company shall begin on the 1st day of October in each year and end on the September 30th next succeeding.
     Any Director or corporate officer may be a party to or may be interested in any agreement or transaction of the Company by which he or she may personally benefit, with the same force and effect as if he or she were either an entire stranger to the Company or to the Board of Directors, provided the fact that he or she is so interested or may personally benefit shall be disclosed or shall have been known to the majority of the Board of Directors; and further provided that such agreement or transaction shall be approved or ratified by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors, or a committee thereof, not so interested or benefited.
     The Company shall indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, any corporate agent (as defined in said Act) made, or threatened to be made, a party to any action, suit or proceeding (whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative) by reason of the fact that he or she is, or was, a corporate agent of the Company. No elimination of or amendment to this Article X shall deprive any person of any rights hereunder arising out of alleged or actual acts or omissions occurring prior to such elimination or amendment.
 
     These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed by the shareholders or by a majority vote of the Directors then in office. Any By-law adopted, amended or repealed by the shareholders may be amended or repealed by a majority vote of the Directors then in office unless the resolution of the shareholders adopting such By-law expressly reserves to the shareholders the right to amend or repeal it.
     These By-laws are subject to the provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act and the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, as they may be amended from time-to-time. If any provision in these By-laws is inconsistent with a provision in that Act or the Certificate of Incorporation, the provision of that Act or the Certificate of Incorporation, as the case may be, shall govern to the extent of such inconsistency.

Exhibit 99.1
1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
News Release
Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications 201-310-2493 (c); 201-847-5369 (o)
Contacts:
colleen_white@bd.com
Monique N. Dolecki, Investor Relations  201-847-5453
Monique_dolecki@bd.com
 The Board of Directors of BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE:BDX), a leading global medical technology company, today announced that, in accordance with its long-term succession planning, it has elected Vincent A. Forlenza as Chief Executive Officer and President, effective October 1, 2011. Mr. Forlenza will also become a member of the Board at that time. Also effective October 1, current BD Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward J. Ludwig will serve as executive Chairman of the Board through June 2012.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (July 26, 2011)
"This change in leadership is the result of the Board's focus on succession planning that began in 2008 as part of our corporate governance practices," said Henry P. Becton, Jr., BD's Lead Director. "The selection of an excellent internal candidate to replace Ed demonstrates the strength of executive leadership development at BD."
Mr. Forlenza, 58, joined BD in 1980. His BD career has spanned strategic planning, marketing, general management of several business units and executive leadership. His prior roles include service in all three business segments (BD Medical, BD Diagnostics and BD Biosciences) as well as in strategy development and overseas roles. He was named Executive Vice President in 2006 and President in 2009; he assumed the additional role of Chief Operating Officer in July 2010.
"Over the last 30 years, Vince has distinguished himself as a leader. He has an outstanding track record running businesses, international operations, technology and business development," said Mr. Ludwig. "His broad array of achievements has prepared and eminently qualified him to lead BD to the next level as the Company continues its journey to greatness."
 
Mr. Ludwig, 60, joined BD in 1979. He became President in May 1999, Chief Executive Officer in January 2000 and Chairman in February 2002. Over the last 12 years, the Company has more than doubled its revenues, more than tripled its net income and nearly tripled its market cap, and it ranks in the top third among its peer group for total shareholder return for that period. During the same period, BD has invested $3.6 billion in R&D and $5.1 billion in capital expansions, and revenues derived from sales outside of the United States have grown from 43 percent to 57 percent today. And, thousands of BD associates have benefited from executive training programs  a key initiative created during Mr. Ludwig's inaugural year as CEO.
"On behalf of BD, its shareholders, associates and the Board of Directors, I want to thank Ed for the extraordinary leadership he has provided during his time as CEO. We are pleased that Ed will continue to provide his insight and counsel as Vince transitions to his new role," added Mr. Becton.
About BD
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in more than 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit .
www.bd.com


