FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20110207172125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On February 7, 2011, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its first fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP measures"), as follows:
     BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
     BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
     Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
Table of Contents
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 7, 2011
Table of Contents

1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
Zachary A. Nagle, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX), a leading global medical technology company, today reported quarterly revenues of $1.842 billion for the first fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010, representing a decrease of 1.4 percent from the prior-year period. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, revenue decreased 1.5 percent. The revenue decline reflects an unfavorable comparison to the prior year of about 4 percentage points due to strong sales related to the pandemic flu and U.S. stimulus revenues in fiscal 2010.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (February 7, 2011)
The Company also repurchased $837 million of its common stock during the quarter. BD continues to plan aggregate share repurchases of $1.5 billion in fiscal 2011 and an additional $600 million in fiscal 2012.
"We are pleased with our performance in the first fiscal quarter given the challenging environment," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "While revenue came in slightly below our expectations, our discipline around operational excellence enabled us to deliver earnings per share in line with our previous guidance. We continued to return significant value to shareholders, while also investing in geographic expansion, new product platforms and operational excellence programs."
 
Reported diluted earnings per share for the first quarter were $1.35, compared with $1.25 in the prior-year period, representing an 8.0 percent increase. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, diluted earnings per share for the first quarter increased by 4.8 percent.
First Quarter Earnings
For the quarter, reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations included an approximate $0.07 favorable impact due to the timing of certain tax benefits. These benefits, which were reflected in our previous full year guidance, resulted from certain first quarter events, including the retroactive extension of the U.S. research tax credit.
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $927 million, representing a decrease of 4.5 percent compared with the prior-year period, or a decrease of 4.3 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. The segment's revenue decline reflects an unfavorable comparison to the prior year of about 6 percentage points due to strong sales related to the H1N1 flu pandemic in fiscal year 2010, partially offset by solid growth in the Diabetes Care unit with particularly strong growth in pen needles.
Segment Results
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $602 million, representing an increase of 1.0 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 0.6 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Segment revenue growth was negatively impacted by about 2 percentage points due to strong sales related to the flu pandemic in fiscal year 2010. The segment growth was primarily driven by strong sales in Preanalytical Systems safety-engineered products, and Women's Health and Cancer in the Diagnostic Systems unit.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $314 million, representing an increase of 3.7 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 3.5 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Segment revenue growth was negatively impacted by about 2 percentage points due to strong sales related to stimulus spending in the U.S. in fiscal year 2010. Segment growth was primarily driven by instrument and reagent sales in the Cell Analysis unit.
First quarter revenues in the U.S. were $829 million, representing a decrease of 2.9 percent compared with the prior-year period, including a negative impact of 6.0 percentage points due to flu pandemic-related sales in fiscal year 2010. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $1.013 billion, representing a decrease of 0.2 percent compared with the prior-year period, or a decrease of 0.3 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. International revenue growth was negatively impacted by about 3 percentage points related to the flu pandemic in fiscal year 2010. Revenues reflected continued strength in emerging markets, which was partially offset by a decline in sales in Europe.
Geographic Results
The Company continues to estimate that reported revenues for the full fiscal year 2011 will increase about 4 percent compared to fiscal year 2010. The Company also continues to expect reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 to be between $5.45 and $5.55, an increase of approximately 11 to 13 percent over fiscal year 2010. Diluted earnings per share from
Company Reaffirms Previously Communicated Fiscal Year 2011 Guidance
 
continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 are expected to increase 10 to 12 percent over adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding specified item, of $4.94 for fiscal year 2010. The specified item represents a 2010 non-cash charge of $0.04 cents per share related to healthcare reform impacting Medicare Part D reimbursements.
A conference call regarding BD's first quarter results and its expectations for the full fiscal year 2011 will be broadcast live on BD's website, , along with related slides, at 10:00 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, February 8, 2011. The related slides are available concurrent with this press release at . The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, , or at 1-800-642-1687 (domestic) and 1-706-645-9291 (international) through the close of business on Tuesday, February 15, 2011, access code 37117544.
Conference Call Information
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these and other non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial tables and the Form 8-K that BD filed today with the SEC.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in more than 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit .
About BD
www.bd.com
This press release contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues and earnings per share. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as "expect", "estimate" or words of similar meaning in conjunction with statements of our future performance. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, a number of factors could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement. These factors include, but are not limited to: the unknown consequences of the recently-enacted healthcare reform in the United States, including the impact of the reduction in Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and other customers, which could reduce demand for our products and increase downward pricing pressure; adverse changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions, including any impact that may result from the current global economic downturn on our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, the demand for
 
our products and services, or our suppliers' ability to provide products needed for our operations; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; new or changing laws impacting our business or changes in enforcement practices with respect to such laws; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); future healthcare reform, including changes in government pricing and reimbursement policies or other cost containment reforms; the effects of potential pandemic diseases; our ability to successfully integrate any businesses we acquire; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
Page 1
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 2
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended December 31, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 3
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended December 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 4
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended December 31, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 5
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION SAFETY REVENUES (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Page 6
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS FISCAL 2010 Revised for discontinued operations of certain Medical segment divestitures (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Certain quarterly amounts may not add to the year-to-date totals due to rounding.
Page 7
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS FISCAL 2009 Revised for discontinued operations of certain Medical segment divestitures (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
Certain quarterly amounts may not add to the year-to-date totals due to rounding.
Page 8

Exhibit 99.2
Fiscal Year 2010 adjusted earnings per share ("EPS")
 
First quarter Fiscal Year 2011 foreign currency-neutral EPS growth


