FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20111102061537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On November 2, 2011, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ending September 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP measures"), as follows:
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 2, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
News Release
Monique N. Dolecki, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX), a leading global medical technology company, today reported quarterly revenues of $2.051 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011, representing an increase of 9.5 percent from the prior-year period, or 4.0 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (November 2, 2011)
For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, BD reported revenues of $7.829 billion, representing an increase of 6.2 percent over the prior year. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, revenues increased 2.9 percent, despite an unfavorable comparison to the prior year of about 2.0 percentage points due to strong sales related to the H1N1 flu pandemic, supplemental spending in Japan and stimulus spending in the U.S. in fiscal year 2010.
 
 
"We are pleased with our solid finish to fiscal year 2011. Despite a challenging business environment, all segments contributed to our success and growth," said Vincent A. Forlenza, Chief Executive Officer and President. "We will continue to drive operational efficiencies and make capital and R&D investments to support our innovation strategy as we look to fiscal year 2012 and beyond."
 
As announced in August 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of Carmel Pharma, AB, a Swedish company that manufactures the BD PhaSeal System. This is the leading closed-system drug transfer device for the safe handling of hazardous drugs that are packaged in vials. The financial impact of the acquisition on our fourth quarter results was in line with our guidance.
Update on the Acquisition of Carmel Pharma, AB
 
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter were $1.36, compared with $1.24 in the prior-year period, representing a 9.7 percent increase. Current quarter results included a non-cash charge of $9 million, or $0.03 per share from continuing operations, resulting from the discontinuance of a research program within the Diagnostic Systems unit. Excluding this item, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 12.1 percent to $1.39, compared with $1.24 in the prior-year period. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter increased by 8.1 percent.
Fourth Quarter Earnings and Analysis of the Full Fiscal Year 2011 and 2010 Earnings
For the full fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $5.59, compared with $4.90 in the prior fiscal year, representing an increase of 14.1
 
percent. Excluding the aforementioned charge of $9 million, or $0.03 per share from continuing operations, and the 2010 fiscal year charge of $0.04 per share from continuing operations related to healthcare reform impacting Medicare Part D reimbursements, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 13.8 percent to $5.62, compared with $4.94 in the prior-year period. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fiscal year increased 8.1 percent.
 
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $1.055 billion, representing an increase of 10.0 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues increased 3.8 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Segment revenue growth reflected strong Diabetes Care and international safety sales, along with solid sales of Pharmaceutical Systems products. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2011, BD Medical revenues increased 5.6 percent, or 2.3 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Segment Results
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $642 million, representing an increase of 8.6 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 3.8 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Revenues reflected solid growth in both the Women's Health and Cancer and the Infectious Disease product offerings within the Diagnostic Systems unit. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2011, BD Diagnostics revenues increased 7.0 percent, or 3.9 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
 
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $354 million, representing an increase of 9.6 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues increased 4.7 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis, primarily driven by instrument and reagent sales in the Cell Analysis unit. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2011, BD Biosciences revenues increased 6.7 percent, or 3.2 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
 
Fourth quarter revenues in the U.S. were $843 million, representing an increase of 1.3 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $1.208 billion, representing an increase of 16.0 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 6.1 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. International revenue growth was driven by continued strength in safety sales and strong growth in emerging markets. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2011, revenues in the U.S. were $3.356 billion, representing an increase of 2.1 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $4.473 billion, representing an increase of 9.5 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 3.6 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Geographic Results
 
The Company estimates that reported revenues for the full fiscal year 2012 will increase about 1 to 3 percent, or 2 to 4 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Our guidance reflects the anticipated effects of lower healthcare utilization, reduced research funding and global macroeconomic conditions. The Company expects reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2012 to be between $5.75 and $5.85. The Company also plans to repurchase, subject to
Fiscal 2012 Outlook for Full Year
 
market conditions, $1.5 billion of its common stock in fiscal year 2012, and fund the repurchases through ongoing cash flow and the issuance of debt.
 
A conference call regarding BD's fourth quarter results and its expectations for the full fiscal year 2012 will be broadcast live on BD's website, , along with related slides, at 8:00 a.m. (ET) Wednesday, November 2, 2011. The slides will be available concurrent with the issuance of this press release at . The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, , or at 855-859-2056 (domestic) and 404-537-3406 (international) through the close of business on Wednesday, November 9, 2011, access code 16826583.
Conference Call Information
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
 
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these and other non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial tables.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in more than 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit www.bd.com.
About BD
 
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal 2012 Outlook", contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues and earnings per share. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, a number of factors could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement. These factors include, but are not limited to: the unknown consequences of healthcare reform in the United States, including the impact of the reduction in Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and other customers, which could reduce demand for our products and increase downward pricing pressure; adverse changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions, including any impact that may result from the current global economic downturn on our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, the demand for our products and services as a result of reduced government funding, lower utilization rates or otherwise, or our suppliers' ability to provide products needed for our operations; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates
;
competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; new or changing laws impacting our business or changes in enforcement practices with respect to such laws; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); future healthcare reform, including changes in government pricing and reimbursement policies or other cost containment reforms; the effects of potential pandemic diseases; our ability to successfully integrate any businesses we acquire; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended September 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Twelve Months Ended September 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION SAFETY REVENUES (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION FY2011 Quarter-to-Date Reconciliation (Unaudited; Amounts in millions, except per share data)
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION FY2011 Year-to-Date Reconciliation (Unaudited; Amounts in millions, except per share data)
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Quarter-to-Date Fiscal 2011 Reconciliation  FX Impact (Unaudited; Amounts in millions, except per share data)
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
FXN = Foreign Currency Neutral
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Year-to-Date Fiscal 2011 Reconciliation  FX Impact (Unaudited; Amounts in millions, except per share data)
FXN = Foreign Currency Neutral
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.


