FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20110802061606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On August 2, 2011, Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its third fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that differ from those presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP measures"), as follows:
BD's management uses each of these non-GAAP measures in its own evaluation of BD's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Management also uses the non-GAAP results for budget planning purposes on a quarterly and annual basis.
BD provides non-GAAP measures to investors on a supplemental basis, as they provide additional insight into BD's financial results. Management believes the non-GAAP results provide a reasonable measure of BD's underlying performance before the effects of items that are considered by management to be outside of BD's underlying operational results or that affect period to period comparability.
Non-GAAP results should not be considered in isolation and are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP results. Our non-GAAP results may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although BD's management believes non-GAAP results are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, its reliance on these measures is limited since items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on BD's net income, earnings per share or cash flows calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP results in conjunction with GAAP results to address these limitations. Investors should also consider these limitations when evaluating BD's results.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 2, 2011
 

1 Becton Drive Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417 www.bd.com
Final
Monique N. Dolecki, Investor Relations  201-847-5453 Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369
Contact:
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE: BDX), a leading global medical technology company, today reported quarterly revenues of $2.014 billion for the third fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2011, representing an increase of 10.0 percent from the prior-year period. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, revenues increased 4.8 percent.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (August 2, 2011)
"We are pleased with our solid results this quarter, with all three segments contributing to growth," said Edward J. Ludwig, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Gross margin expansion reflecting favorable product mix has offset some of the headwinds we have been facing as a result of a challenging macroeconomic environment and increased raw material costs."
1
 
Agreement to Acquire Carmel Pharma, AB
On July 27, 2011, the Company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to acquire Carmel Pharma, AB, a Swedish company that manufactures the PhaSeal System. This is the leading closed-system drug transfer device for the safe handling of hazardous drugs that are packaged in vials. The acquisition is expected to close prior to the end of this fiscal year.
Third Quarter and Nine-Month Fiscal 2011 Operating Results
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter were $1.51, compared with $1.23 in the prior-year period, representing a 22.8 percent increase, or 13.8 percent on a currency-neutral basis.
For the nine-month period ending June 30, 2011, reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $4.23, compared with $3.66 in the prior-year period. The prior-year period included a non-cash charge of $8.9 million, or $0.04 per share, related to healthcare reform impacting Medicare Part D reimbursements. Excluding that item, earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 14.3 percent, compared with adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.70 in the prior-year period, or 8.1 percent on a currency-neutral basis.
Segment Results
In the BD Medical segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $1.045 billion, representing an increase of 10.5 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 4.9 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Revenues reflected strong sales of Pharmaceutical Systems products and international
2
 
safety, along with solid sales of Diabetes Care products. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2011, BD Medical revenues increased 4.0 percent, or 1.7 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
In the BD Diagnostics segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $631 million, representing an increase of 9.6 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 4.8 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Revenues reflected solid growth in Preanalytical Systems safety-engineered products and strong growth in both the Women's Health and Cancer and the Infectious Disease product offerings in the Diagnostics Systems unit. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2011, BD Diagnostics revenues increased 6.4 percent, or 3.9 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
In the BD Biosciences segment, worldwide revenues for the quarter were $338 million, representing an increase of 9.3 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 4.3 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Segment growth was driven primarily by instrument and reagent sales in the Cell Analysis unit. Discovery Labware revenues in the U.S. were negatively impacted by weakness in core consumables. The segment's revenues also reflected softness in Western Europe due to government research funding delays. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2011, BD Biosciences revenues increased by 5.7 percent, or 2.7 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Geographic Results
Third quarter revenues in the U.S. were $855 million, representing an increase of 5.7 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $1.159 billion, representing an increase of 13.4 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 4.1 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis. Revenues reflected continued strength in emerging markets, which was partially offset
3
 
by ongoing challenging macroeconomic conditions in Western Europe. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 2011, revenues in the U.S. were $2.513 billion, representing an increase of 2.4 percent compared with the prior-year period. Revenues outside of the U.S. were $3.265 billion, representing an increase of 7.2 percent compared with the prior-year period, or 2.8 percent on a foreign currency-neutral basis.
Fiscal Year 2011 Outlook
Reported revenue growth guidance for the full fiscal year 2011 is expected to be at the higher end of the previously communicated range of 5 to 6 percent compared with fiscal year 2010, due to the anticipated effects of favorable currency. On a foreign currency-neutral basis, the Company is lowering its revenue growth guidance to an increase of about 3 percent versus its previously communicated guidance of about 3.5 percent, mainly due to lower than expected sales in Western Europe.
The Company is raising its previous guidance for reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 from $5.55-$5.65 to $5.65-$5.70, an increase of approximately 15 to 16 percent over fiscal year 2010, due to the anticipated effects of favorable currency. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 are expected to increase 14 to 15 percent over adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.94, excluding the specified item, for fiscal year 2010. The specified item represents the aforementioned 2010 non-cash charge of $0.04 per share related to healthcare reform. On a currency-neutral basis, the Company continues to expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to increase about 10 percent over adjusted diluted earnings per share in the prior-year period, despite lower than expected revenue growth and higher resin costs.
4
 
Conference Call Information
A conference call regarding BD's third quarter results and its expectations will be broadcast live on BD's website, , along with related slides, at 8:00 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, August 2, 2011. The slides are available concurrent with the issuance of this press release at . The conference call will be available for replay on BD's website, , or at 855-859-2056 (domestic) and 404-537-3406 (international) through the close of business on Tuesday, August 9, 2011, access code 82566570.
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
www.bd.com/investors
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these and other non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial tables.
About BD
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in more than 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit www.bd.com.
5
 
This press release, including the section entitled "Fiscal Year 2011 Outlook", contains certain estimates and other forward-looking statements (as defined under Federal securities laws) regarding BD's performance, including future revenues and earnings per share. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as "expect", "estimate" or words of similar meaning in conjunction with statements of future performance. All such statements are based upon current expectations of BD and involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from anticipated results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statement. With respect to forward-looking statements contained herein, a number of factors could cause actual results to vary materially from any forward-looking statement. These factors include, but are not limited to: the potential adverse effects that the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the situation regarding the Fukushima, Japan nuclear power plant may have on BD's future operations in Japan; the unknown consequences of the recently-enacted healthcare reform in the United States, including the impact of the reduction in Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and other customers, which could reduce demand for BD's products and increase downward pricing pressure; adverse changes in regional, national or foreign economic conditions, including any impact that may result from the current global economic situation on BD's ability to access credit markets and finance its operations, the demand for BD's products and services, or its suppliers' ability to provide products needed for BD's operations; changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates; competitive factors; pricing and market share pressures; difficulties inherent in product development and delays in product introductions; increases in energy costs and their effect on, among other things, the cost of producing BD's products; fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and in BD's ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; new or changing laws impacting BD's business or changes in enforcement practices with respect to such laws; uncertainties of litigation (as described in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission); future healthcare reform, including changes in government pricing and reimbursement policies or other cost containment reforms; the effects of potential pandemic diseases; BD's ability to successfully integrate any businesses it acquires; and issuance of new or revised accounting standards, as well as other factors discussed in BD's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. BD does not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof except as required by applicable laws or regulations.
6
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended June 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Three Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Nine Months Ended June 30, (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Nine Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND UNITS Nine Months Ended June 30, (continued) (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUE INFORMATION SAFETY REVENUES (Unaudited; Amounts in thousands)
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION FY2011 Year-to-Date Reconciliation (Unaudited; Amounts in millions, except per share data)
 
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Quarter-to-Date Fiscal 2011 Reconciliation  FX Impact (Unaudited; Amounts in millions, except per share data)
 
                   FXN = Foreign Currency Neutral
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
Year-to-Date Fiscal 2011 Reconciliation  FX Impact
(Unaudited; Amounts in millions, except per share data)
 
     
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
     FXN = Foreign Currency Neutral
 
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
FY2010 Total Year Reconciliation
 


