FILE:BDX/BDX-8K-20120724115034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K Filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Rebecca W. Rimel has been elected to the Board of Directors of Becton, Dickinson and Company ("BD"), effective July 23, 2012, at which time she will become a member of each of the Audit Committee and the Science, Investment and Technology Committee of the Board. A copy of the press release issued by BD in connection with Ms. Rimel's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Information regarding the compensation of the non-management members of BD's Board of Directors is included under the caption "Non-Management Directors' Compensation" in BD's proxy statement relating to its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated July 23, 2012, which is filed pursuant to Item 5.02.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 24, 2012
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Contacts:
Colleen T. White, Corporate Communications  201-847-5369;
colleen_white@bd.com
Monique N. Dolecki, Investor Relations  201-847-5378;
monique_dolecki@bd.com
 BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) (NYSE:BDX), a leading global medical technology company, announced that it has elected Rebecca W. Rimel to its Board of Directors, effective today.
Franklin Lakes, NJ (July 23, 2012)
Ms. Rimel, 61, is President and Chief Executive Officer of The Pew Charitable Trusts, a public charity that applies a rigorous, analytical approach to improving public policy, informing the public and stimulating civic life.
"It is an honor to welcome Rebecca Rimel to the BD Board," said Vincent A. Forlenza, BD Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. "Rebecca brings to BD a unique blend of broad public policy expertise, philanthropic leadership and a strong healthcare background. I am confident that she will provide invaluable insight and perspective as we continue to execute our strategy of accelerating growth through innovation, complemented by operational excellence."
Ms. Rimel has served in her current role since 1994, after serving as Executive Director and Vice President for Programs for The Pew Charitable Trusts. Her prior experience includes roles at The Glenmede Trust Company, an independent investment and wealth management firm. A registered nurse, Ms. Rimel has more than a decade of experience at the University of Virginia Hospital, serving as Head Nurse  Emergency Department, Coordinator of Medical Out-Patient Facilities, and Assistant Professor, Instructor in Neurosurgery.
In the nonprofit arena, Ms. Rimel currently serves on the board of The Pew Charitable Trusts and the Washington College Board of Visitors and Governors. In the corporate arena, she serves on the boards of Deutsche Asset Management/DWS Funds and CardioNet, a publicly traded wireless medicine company.
Ms. Rimel received a B.S. with Distinction from the University of Virginia School of Nursing and an MBA from James Madison University.
About BD
BD is a leading global medical technology company that develops, manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems and reagents. The Company is dedicated to improving people's health throughout the world. BD is focused on improving drug delivery, enhancing the quality and speed of diagnosing infectious diseases and cancers, and advancing research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines. BD's capabilities are instrumental in combating many of the world's most pressing diseases. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs approximately 29,000 associates in more than 50 countries throughout the world. The Company serves healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. For more information, please visit .
www.bd.com


