FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20040129061745.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 28, 2004
                                                                                                              
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(860) 225-5111
                                                                                                           
 
 
.    .
Item 7
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
.    .
Item 12
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
In press releases attached to this current report on Form 8-K, the Company reported its results for the fourth quarter of 2003 and provided guidance for the first quarter and full year of 2004 and elaborated on certain other activities.
 
The information in this current report on Form 8-K will not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 28, 2004
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Stanley Works Reports Fourth Quarter 2003 Results
 
18% Sales Growth; Record $186 Million Free Cash Flow
 
 The Stanley Works (NYSE: SWK) announced that fourth quarter 2003 net income was $35 million, or 42 per fully diluted share, vs. 20 in 2002. Such earnings include pre-tax charges totaling $38 million, or 31 per fully diluted share in 2003 and $28 million, or 21 per fully diluted share in 2002. Aside from these charges, fourth quarter 2003 earnings per fully diluted share were 73 (vs. 42 last year), surpassing company estimates of 68-71 provided in the company's pre-release on December 8, 2003, and representing the highest quarterly earnings level in the company's history. Included in both reported earnings and earnings aside from charges were $4 million, or 4 per fully diluted share, of earnings from discontinued operations  the residential entry door business held for sale to Masonite Corporation.
New Britain, Connecticut, January 28, 2004
 
Net sales from continuing operations were $728 million, up 18% over last year. Sales of the discontinued operation were $51 million vs. $47 million last year. Combined sales of the discontinued and continuing operations were $779 million, up 18% over last year and, exclusive of the effects of the Best Access Systems acquisition, such sales increased 12%. Double-digit percentage sales growth was achieved in hand tools, access technologies, assembly technologies, consumer hardware and ZAG storage. Sales growth was broad-based across virtually all of the company's business units:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joseph J. DeAngelo, Executive Vice President and President  Tools Group stated: "Intense customer focus by each of our business teams has allowed us to consistently gain market share in recent quarters. Our flow of innovative new products, excellent fill rates, exciting marketing programs and somewhat improved economic conditions have driven increased orders and corresponding sell-through at all accounts. Jim Loree and I are proud of the team and the pace at which their morale and momentum continue to build."
 
For the full year 2003 sales from continuing operations were $2,678 million versus $2,384 million last year, an increase of 12%. Including the sales of the discontinued entry doors operation, total sales of $2,860 million were 10% higher than in 2002. Aside from the impacts of the Best Access Systems acquisition, total sales increased 1%.
 
Full year net income was $108 million, or $1.27 per fully diluted share, versus $185 million, or $2.10 in 2002. Such earnings include pre-tax charges totaling $120 million, or 96 per fully diluted share in 2003 and $18 million or 21 per share in 2002.
 
Exclusive of charges and credits, net income was $189 million versus $204 million last year, and earnings per fully diluted share of $2.23 were 3% below 2002. Included in both reported earnings and earnings aside from charges were $11 million in 2003 and $15 million in 2002 of earnings from the discontinued residential entry door business.
 
In December, the company projected free cash flow (before dividends) of at least $100 million in the fourth quarter and $340 million for the year. Actual free cash flow was $186 million in the fourth quarter and $425 million for the year, surpassing the 2002 record free cash flow of $233 million.
 
Working capital reductions were approximately $94 million in the fourth quarter, as inventory and accounts receivable were closely managed and declined approximately $47 million each despite an 18% sales increase, while exceptionally high customer fill rates were delivered.
 
James M. Loree, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, commented: "Joe DeAngelo and I are very pleased with Stanley's fourth quarter financial performance on all fronts, including sales growth, earnings per share, cash generation and working capital management. Our business teams across the company are executing effectively and most markets we serve are improving as well.
 
"The strong cash generation is especially important as we pursue the repositioning of our portfolio into more attractive, faster growing markets. Strong cash generation enables us to achieve three important objectives: (1) continuing to pay a secure, attractive dividend; (2) de-levering the company to levels consistent with our debt rating objectives; and (3) continuing to pursue the repositioning of our portfolio of businesses. In the fourth quarter we made progress toward all of these objectives."
 
Fourth quarter gross margin of $232 million (31.8% of sales) increased 320 bps over $176 million (28.6% of sales) in 2002. On a basis including entry doors and aside from charges discussed below, gross margin was 32.7%, an improvement of 170 bps over 31.0% last year. Contributing to this improvement were numerous factors including the following: (1) costs incurred in 2002 related to a flawed facility closure did not recur in 2003; (2) the full-quarter inclusion of Best Access Systems and (3) the impacts of the aforementioned higher sales volumes.
 
Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $158 million in the fourth quarter vs. $139 million in last year. Exclusive of charges and including discontinued operations, SG&A expenses of $155 million (19.9% of sales) were $13 million above fourth quarter 2002 levels, reflecting the inclusion of Best Access Systems' expenses. As a percentage of sales, SG&A expenses declined 160 bps from prior year levels, led by the lower expenses of Mac Tools achieved through the termination of the Mac Direct business model. Resulting operating margin, including discontinued operations and aside from charges, was 12.8% versus 9.6% in 2002, an improvement of 320 basis points.
 
Tools segment sales increased 12% to $540 million. Operating margin was 9.7% versus 5.0% in 2002 and, exclusive of charges, 13.3% versus 9.0% in 2002, reflecting the benefits of the increased volume, the absence of facility closure costs incurred last year, the successful achievement of planned productivity savings and improved profitability of Mac Tools.
 
Doors segment sales from continuing operations increased 43% to $188 million. Organic sales  aside from the impact of Best Access  increased 13%, as both the consumer hardware and access technologies businesses delivered double-digit percentage growth. Operating margin including discontinued operations improved to 11.5% vs. 11.0% last year, reflecting the inclusion of Best Access and benefits of the higher sales volumes.
 
Net interest was $7 million, unchanged from last year, as favorable interest rates offset the effects of higher borrowings. Other net expenses increased to $9 million, exclusive of special charges, versus $3 million last year, due primarily to litigation settlement costs of $3 million and a $3 million write-off of an investment, among other items.
 
As the company previously indicated in December, it accelerated certain projects from its Operation 15 initiative into the fourth quarter. This was solely a timing change, and the company announced today that all charges anticipated by Operation 15 were incurred in 2003 and no further such charges are expected in 2004. Thus the incurrence of charges related to this program has been completed, two quarters earlier than originally expected and the company expects to report only GAAP earnings, including and excluding discontinued operations, in 2004.
 
Total charges from this program were approximately $108 million, at the high end of the range previously communicated. The company expects to meet or exceed its previously stated objective of $100 million of annualized savings.
 
The company incurred charges totaling $38 million, or 31 per fully diluted share in the fourth quarter. These charges include impairment of certain fixed assets and inventories in connection with the planned closure of a distribution facility in the U.S. and other impairments and severance related to cost reduction initiatives. A full reconciliation of earnings excluding charges to reported earnings is included within this press release.
 
Reported results within this press release for the fourth quarters and full years 2003 and 2002 are supplemented with related amounts and percentages that exclude restructuring costs, impairment charges and other costs, and include the results of discontinued operations. Management believes these supplemental financial measures provide useful information by removing the effect of variances in reported results that are not indicative of fundamental changes in the company's earnings capacity. Reconciliations of such supplemental amounts to comparable GAAP-based earnings are provided within this press release. Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital investments; the company believes this is an important measure of its liquidity, as well as its ability to fund future growth and to provide a return to the shareowners.
 
The company has scheduled a conference call with investors for 11am EST this morning to discuss the matters detailed above. The call is accessible by telephone at (800) 267-8424 and from outside the U.S. at (706) 634-0695; also, via the Internet at by selecting "Investor Relations". A replay will also be available two hours after the call and can be accessed at 800-642-1687 by entering the conference identification number 4970276.
www.stanleyworks.com
 
Gerry Gould, Vice PresidentInvestor Relations at (860) 827-3833 / ggould@ stanleyworks.com
Contact:
 
The Stanley Works, an S&P 500 company, is a worldwide supplier of tools, hardware and security solutions for professional, industrial and consumer use. More information about The Stanley Works, including corporate press releases, can be found at .
http://www.stanleyworks.com
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Cautionary statements accompanying these forward-looking statements are set forth, along with this news release, in a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission today.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2002 Special Charges also include $5.6 million pre-tax, or $0.04 per share, of accounting corrections related primarily to expense capitalization and depreciation which arose in prior years and account for the difference between earnings set forth in these financial statements and unaudited amounts included in the Company's January 24, 2003 earnings release. These costs were classified within the 2002 Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) Sales$0.5 million; (ii) Cost of sales$4.4 million; and (iii) Other, net$0.7 million.
 
 
 
2002 Special Charges also include $5.6 million pre-tax, or $0.04 per share, of accounting corrections related primarily to expense capitalization and depreciation which arose in prior years and account for the difference between earnings set forth in these financial statements and unaudited amounts included in the Company's January 24, 2003 earnings release. These costs were classified within the 2002 Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) Sales$0.5 million; (ii) Cost of sales$4.4 million; and (iii) Other, net$0.7 million.
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Stanley Works Provides First Quarter And Full Year 2004 Earnings Estimates; Also Provides Status Update On Recently Announced Transactions
 
 The Stanley Works (NYSE: SWK) provided earnings estimates for 2004, projecting organic sales growth, aside from the effects of acquisition and divestiture activity, of approximately 4-6% in the first quarter of 2004 and 3-4% for the full year.
New Britain, Connecticut, January 28, 2004
 
With this sales outlook, the company expects first quarter 2004 earnings from continuing operations to approximate 49-51 per fully diluted share, up 123-132% over 22 earned last year, and up 40-46% over 35 per share earned last year on a basis excluding charges. In addition, earnings from discontinued operations are expected to be about 1 per share.
 
With the aforementioned sales outlook, the company expects full year 2004 earnings from continuing operations to approximate $2.50-$2.60 per fully diluted share, up 119-128% over $1.14 earned last year, and up 19-24% over $2.10 per share earned last year on a basis excluding charges.
 
These first quarter and full year 2004 earnings expectations are provided exclusive of earnings that may result from the proposed Frisco Bay Industries acquisition.
 
Additionally, the company provided the following information relative to the status of recently announced transactions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
James M. Loree, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer commented: "The proposed sale of our residential entry doors business means $180 million less annual revenues and approximately 15 per fully diluted share lower earnings for our company. Collectively, these three planned acquisitions would approximately replace those amounts, in favored markets whose characteristics include growth and higher inherent profitability. This has been a very successful period of business development for our company. Our primary 2004 focus will be on assimilating these new businesses into Stanley."
 
The company has scheduled a conference call with investors for 11am EST this morning to discuss the matters detailed above. The call is accessible by telephone at (800) 267-8424 and from outside the U.S. at (706) 634-0695; also, via the Internet at by selecting "Investor Relations". A replay will also be available two hours after the call and can be accessed at 800-642-1687 by entering the conference identification number 4970276.
www.stanleyworks.com
 
The Stanley Works, an S&P 500 company, is a worldwide supplier of tools, hardware and security solutions for professional, industrial and consumer use. More information about The Stanley Works can be found at .
http://www.stanleyworks.com
 
The offers for Frisco Bay Industries Ltd. discussed in this press release have not yet commenced, and this press release does not constitute an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell securities. At the time the expected tender offers are commenced, Stanley will file a tender offer statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and mail and file offer materials as required by Canadian and U.S. laws, and Frisco Bay will also file required solicitation / recommendation materials. The tender offer materials will contain important information and shareholders of Frisco Bay should read this information carefully before making any decision about the tender offers.
 
The tender offer materials, certain other offer materials and the solicitation / recommendation materials will be sent to all shareholders of Frisco Bay free of charge and will also be available free of charge on the SEC's website at and the CSA's website at . The offers will remain open for 35 days from the date that the offer materials are mailed.
www.sec.gov
www.sedar.com
 
Gerry Gould, Vice PresidentInvestor Relations at (860) 827-3833 / ggould@ stanleyworks.com
Contact:
 
The Stanley Works corporate press releases are available on the company's Internet web site at .
www.stanleyworks.com
 
 
 
Certain statements including the statements in the press releases issued by the company today regarding the company's ability to (i) generate benefits of approximately $100 million annually from Operation 15 and limit charges related to that program; (ii) increase organic sales, aside from acquisition and divestiture activity of approximately 4-6% in the first quarter of 2004 and 3-4% for the full year; (iii) increase earnings per fully diluted share in the range of 49-51 (up 123-132% over 22 last year and up 40-46% over 35 per share earned last year on a basis excluding charges) in the first quarter of 2004; (iv) achieve earnings from discontinued operations of about 1 per share; (v) increase full year 2004 earnings per fully diluted share from continuing operations of $2.50-2.60 (up 119-128% over $1.14 earned last year and up 19-24% over $2.10 per share earned last year on a basis excluding charges); (vi) complete the acquisitions of Blick plc and Frisco Bay Industries Ltd. ("Frisco") as well as the disposition of the company's entry door business; (vii) continue to pay a secure, attractive dividend; (viii) de-lever the company to levels consistent with our debt rating objectives; (ix) continue to pursue the repositioning of our portfolio of businesses and (x) realization of approximately $210 million in annual sales and 16 per year (4 quarterly) of earnings per fully diluted share in the respective first years of inclusion into the company's consolidated results of the stated acquisitions are forward looking and are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors listed below and other factors that could delay, divert, or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations.
 
The company's ability to realize the results described above is dependent on (i) the success of the company's ability to complete its previously announced Blick plc and Frisco acquisitions including, but not limited to (in the case of Frisco) the satisfaction or, where applicable, waiver of the conditions to which the offers are subject within anticipated time frames; (ii) the success of the company's efforts to efficiently and promptly integrate the announced acquisitions and the sales related thereto; (iii) the satisfaction of the remaining contingencies related to the company's announced disposition of its entry doors business and the prompt closing of that disposition in substantially the form which has been negotiated; (iv) the success of the company's efforts to restructure its Mac Tools organization in order to return it to profitability, including, without limitation, the company's ability to liquidate certain Mac Tools assets at a satisfactory price; (v) the continued ability of the company to access credit markets under satisfactory terms; (vi) the success of the company's marketing and sales efforts; (vii) continued improvements in productivity and cost reductions; (viii) the continued improvement in the payment terms under which the company buys and sells goods, materials and products; (ix) the reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales; (x) the success of recruiting programs and other efforts to maintain or expand overall Mac Tools truck count; (xi) the company's ability to fulfill demand for its products in a timely manner; (xii) the absence of increased pricing pressures from customers and competitors and the ability to defend market share in the face of price competition; (xiii) the company's ability to identify and engage a successor CEO on a timely basis; and (xiv) the continued ability to effectively manage and defend litigation matters pending or asserted in the future against the company.
 
The company's ability to achieve the objectives discussed above will also be affected by external factors. These external factors include the continued consolidation of customers in consumer channels, inventory management pressures of the company's customers, changes in trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies and laws, inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange and interest rates on the competitiveness of products and the company's debt program, the strength of the U.S. economy and the strength of foreign currencies, including but not limited to the Euro, war, terrorist activities, political unrest and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the company operates.
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof.

EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
Certain statements including the statements in the press releases issued by the company today regarding the company's ability to (i) generate benefits of approximately $100 million annually from Operation 15 and limit charges related to that program; (ii) increase organic sales, aside from acquisition and divestiture activity of approximately 4-6% in the first quarter of 2004 and 3-4% for the full year; (iii) increase earnings per fully diluted share in the range of 49-51 (up 123-132% over 22 last year and up 40-46% over 35 per share earned last year on a basis excluding charges) in the first quarter of 2004; (iv) achieve earnings from discontinued operations of about 1 per share; (v) increase full year 2004 earnings per fully diluted share from continuing operations of $2.50-2.60 (up 119-128% over $1.14 earned last year and up 19-24% over $2.10 per share earned last year on a basis excluding charges); (vi) complete the acquisitions of Blick plc and Frisco Bay Industries Ltd. ("Frisco") as well as the disposition of the company's entry door business; (vii) continue to pay a secure, attractive dividend; (viii) de-lever the company to levels consistent with our debt rating objectives; (ix) continue to pursue the repositioning of our portfolio of businesses and (x) realization of approximately $210 million in annual sales and 16 per year (4 quarterly) of earnings per fully diluted share in the respective first years of inclusion into the company's consolidated results of the stated acquisitions are forward looking and are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors listed below and other factors that could delay, divert, or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations.
 
The company's ability to realize the results described above is dependent on (i) the success of the company's ability to complete its previously announced Blick plc and Frisco acquisitions including, but not limited to (in the case of Frisco) the satisfaction or, where applicable, waiver of the conditions to which the offers are subject within anticipated time frames; (ii) the success of the company's efforts to efficiently and promptly integrate the announced acquisitions and the sales related thereto; (iii) the satisfaction of the remaining contingencies related to the company's announced disposition of its entry doors business and the prompt closing of that disposition in substantially the form which has been negotiated; (iv) the success of the company's efforts to restructure its Mac Tools organization in order to return it to profitability, including, without limitation, the company's ability to liquidate certain Mac Tools assets at a satisfactory price; (v) the continued ability of the company to access credit markets under satisfactory terms; (vi) the success of the company's marketing and sales efforts; (vii) continued improvements in productivity and cost reductions; (viii) the continued improvement in the payment terms under which the company buys and sells goods, materials and products; (ix) the reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales; (x) the success of recruiting programs and other efforts to maintain or expand overall Mac Tools truck count; (xi) the company's ability to fulfill demand for its products in a timely manner; (xii) the absence of increased pricing pressures from customers and competitors and the ability to defend market share in the face of price competition; (xiii) the company's ability to identify and engage a successor CEO on a timely basis; and (xiv) the continued ability to effectively manage and defend litigation matters pending or asserted in the future against the company.
The company's ability to achieve the objectives discussed above will also be affected by external factors. These external factors include the continued consolidation of customers in consumer channels, inventory management pressures of the company's customers, changes in trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies and laws, inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange and interest rates on the competitiveness of products and the company's debt program, the strength of the U.S. economy and the strength of foreign currencies, including but not limited to the Euro, war, terrorist activities, political unrest and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the company operates.
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof.


