FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20060427162916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
APPROVAL OF AMENDMENTS TO 1997 AND 2001 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS On April 26, 2006, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to the Company's 1997 and 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plans adopting performance goals. Copies of the Plans, as amended, are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2. APPROVAL OF THE STANLEY WORKS 2006 MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN On April 26, 2006, the Company's shareholders approved The Stanley Works 2006 Management Incentive Compensation Plan. A copy of the Plan is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3. APPROVAL OF TERMS OF AWARDS FOR FISCAL 2006 PURSUANT TO THE STANLEY WORKS 2006 MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN The Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors approved the performance goals and criteria and the range of potential bonus payments for fiscal 2006 under The Stanley Works 2006 Management Incentive Compensation Plan. Under the Plan, each participant has the opportunity to earn a threshold, target or maximum bonus amount that is contingent upon achieving the financial and individual performance goals established under the Program and described below. A significant percentage of the potential 2006 bonus for participants based in specific divisions is tied to the performance of that division, with the balance of such bonus tied to corporate performance. 2006 Bonuses for participants fulfilling corporate, but not divisional, functions, are dependent on achieving the established corporate goals and will not be affected by results of particular divisions. Bonus amounts based on results that fall below threshold, between the threshold and the target level or between the target and the maximum level are prorated. The performance criteria under the Program are based on achievement in fiscal 2006 of corporate earnings per share, sales growth and cash flow multiple targets, as well as individual per formance goals and, for participants based in specific divisions, additional divisional performance criteria and goals. The range of potential bonus payments for 2006 to our Chief Executive Officer and other four most highly compensated executive officers, expressed as a percentage of their eligible salary, for achievement of threshold performance is 25%-50%, for achievement of target performance is 50%-100%, and for achievement of maximum performance is 100%-200%. APPROVAL OF TERMS OF LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE AWARD PROGRAM FOR THE THREE YEAR PERFORMANCE PERIOD ENDING JANUARY 3, 2009 The Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors approved a Long-Term Performance Award Program under the Stanley Works 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plan for the performance period commencing January 1, 2006 and ending January 3, 2009. Exhibit 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K sets forth the terms and conditions applicable to Long-Term Performance Awards to be issued under the Stanley Works 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan. A form of Award Agreement for long-term performance awards granted under the Long-Term Performance Award Program for the 2006 to 2008 performance period is attached as Exhibit 10.5 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. A description of the performance criteria and range of awards for certain executives is attached as Exhibit 10.6 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
In a press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, The Stanley Works has announced the results of its 163rd annual meeting of shareowners held today.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. 10.1 The Stanley Works 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended. 10.2 The Stanley Works 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended. 10.3 The Stanley Works 2006 Management Incentive Compensation Plan. 10.4 Summary of Material Terms and Conditions Applicable to Long-Term Performance Awards issued under The Stanley Works 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan. 10.5 Form of Award Agreement for the Long-Term Performance Award Program for the period January 1, 2006 through January 3, 2009. 10.6 Description of the performance criteria and range of certain awards under the Long-Term Performance Award Program for the period January 1, 2006 through January 3, 2009. 99.1 Press release dated April 26, 2006 issued by The Stanley Works announcing the voting results from its 163rd annual meeting.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
Section 1. Purpose
The purposes of this Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") are to encourage selected salaried employees of The Stanley Works (together with any successor thereto, the "Company") and selected salaried employees and non-employee directors of its Affiliates (as defined below) to acquire a proprietary interest in the growth and performance of the Company, to generate an increased incentive to contribute to the Company's future success and prosperity, thus enhancing the value of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders, and to enhance the ability of the Company and its Affiliates to attract and retain exceptionally qualified individuals upon whom, in large measure, the sustained progress, growth and profitability of the Company depend.
Section 2. Definitions
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Section 3. Administration
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, the Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant under the Plan; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by (or with respect to which payments, rights, or other matters are to be calculated in connection with) Awards; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award; (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, or other property, or canceled, forfeited, or suspended, and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited, or suspended; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder thereof or of the Committee; (vii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award made under, the Plan; (viii) establish, amend, suspend, or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and (ix) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations, and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, may be made at any time, and shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all Persons, including the Company, any Affiliate, any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award, any shareholder, and any employee of the Company or of any Affiliate.
Section 4. Shares Available for Awards
provided, however, that Awards that operate in tandem with (whether granted simultaneously with or at a different time from), or that are substituted for, other Awards or awards granted under the 1990 Plan may be counted or not counted under procedures adopted by the Committee in order to avoid double counting. Any Shares that are delivered by the Company, and any Awards that are granted by, or become obligations of, the Company through the assumption by the Company or an Affiliate of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by an acquired company, shall not be counted against the Shares available for granting Awards under the Plan.
Section 5. Eligibility
Any Salaried Employee, including any officer or employee-director of the Company or of any Affiliate, and any Non-Employee Director, who is not a member of the Committee shall be eligible to be designated a Participant.
Section 6. Awards
(c) Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
Performance goals shall be based on one or more of the following criteria, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, where applicable: (i) pre-tax income or after-tax income; (ii) earnings including operating income, earnings before or after taxes, earnings before or after interest, depreciation, amortization, or extraordinary or special items; (iii) net income excluding amortization of intangible assets, depreciation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; (iv) operating income; (v) earnings or book value per share (basic or diluted); (vi) return on assets (gross or net), return on investment, return on capital, or return on equity; (vii) return on revenues; (viii) net tangible assets (working capital plus property, plants and equipment) or return on net tangible assets (operating income divided by average net tangible assets) or working capital; (ix) operating cash flow (operating income plus or minus changes in working capital less capital expenditures); (x) cash flow, free cash flow, cash flow return on investment (discounted or otherwise), net cash provided by operations, or cash flow in excess of cost of capital; (xi) sales or sales growth; (xii) operating margin or profit margin; (xiii) share price or total shareholder return; (xiv) earnings from continuing operations; (xv) cost targets, reductions or savings, productivity or efficiencies; (xvi) economic value added; and (xvii) strategic business criteria, consisting of one or more objectives based on meeting specified market penetration or market share, geographic business expansion, customer satisfaction, employee satisfaction, human resources management, financial management, project management, supervision of litigation, information technology, or goals relating to divestitures, joint ventures or similar transactions.
Where applicable, the performance goals may be expressed in terms of attaining a specified level of the particular criterion or the attainment of a percentage increase or decrease in the particular criterion, and may be applied to one or more of Stanley or a parent or subsidiary of Stanley, or a division or strategic business unit of Stanley, all as determined by the Compensation and Organization Committee (the "Committee"). The performance goals may include a threshold level of performance below which no payment will be made (or no vesting will occur), levels of performance at which specified payments will be paid (or specified vesting will occur) and a maximum level of performance above which no additional payment will be made (or at which full vesting will occur).
Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Awards Agreement, the performance goals to be achieved during any performance period, the length of any performance period, the amount of any Performance Award granted, and the amount of any payment or transfer to be made pursuant to any Performance Award shall be determined by the Committee.
(g) General.
Section 7. Amendment and Termination
Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in an Award Agreement or in the Plan:
The Board of Directors of the Company may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan, including, without limitation, any amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation, or termination that would impair the rights of any Participant, or any other holder or beneficiary of any Award theretofore granted, without the consent of any shareholder, Participant, other holder or beneficiary of an Award, or other Person; provided, however, that, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement, without the approval of the shareholders of the Company no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation, or termination shall be made that would:
(a) Amendments to the Plan.
Section 8. General Provisions
Section 9. Change in Control
any cash merger or similar price paid for a share of the Common Stock.
(D)
Section 10. Effective Date of the Plan
The Plan shall be effective as of September 17, 1997.
Section 11. Term of the Plan
No Award shall be granted under the Plan after September 16, 2007. However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the plan or in an applicable Award Agreement, any Award theretofore granted may extend beyond such date, and the authority of the Committee to amend, alter, or adjust any such Award, or to waive any conditions or rights under any such Award, and the authority of the Board of Directors of the Company to amend the Plan, shall extend beyond such date.

Exhibit 10.2
Section 1. Purpose
The purposes of this Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") are to encourage selected salaried employees of The Stanley Works (together with any successor thereto, the "Company") and selected salaried employees and non-employee directors of its Affiliates (as defined below) to acquire a proprietary interest in the growth and performance of the Company, to generate an increased incentive to contribute to the Company's future success and prosperity, thus enhancing the value of the Company for the benefit of its shareowners, and to enhance the ability of the Company and its Affiliates to attract and retain exceptionally qualified individuals upon whom, in large measure, the sustained progress, growth and profitability of the Company depend.
Section 2. Definitions
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Section 3. Administration
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, the Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant under the Plan; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by or with respect to which payments, rights, or other matters are to be calculated in connection with Awards; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award; (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, or other property, or canceled, forfeited, or suspended, and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited, or suspended; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder thereof or of the Committee; (vii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award made under, the Plan; (viii) establish, amend, suspend, or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and (ix) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations, and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, may be made at any time, and shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all Persons, including the Company, any Affiliate, any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award, any shareowner, and any employee of the Company or of any Affiliate.
Section 4. Shares Available for Awards
Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(b):
(a) Shares Available.
For purposes of this Section 4,
(ii) Accounting for Awards.
Section 5. Eligibility
Any Salaried Employee, including any officer or employee-director of the Company or of any Affiliate, and any Non-Employee Director, who is not a member of the Committee shall be eligible to be designated a Participant.
Section 6. Awards
The term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee.
(ii) Option Term.
(c) Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
Performance goals shall be based on one or more of the following criteria, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, where applicable: (i) pre-tax income or after-tax income; (ii) earnings including operating income, earnings before or after taxes, earnings before or after interest, depreciation, amortization, or extraordinary or special items; (iii) net income excluding amortization of intangible assets, depreciation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; (iv) operating income; (v) earnings or book value per share (basic or diluted); (vi) return on assets (gross or net), return on investment, return on capital, or return on equity; (vii) return on revenues; (viii) net tangible assets (working capital plus property, plants and equipment) or return on net tangible assets (operating income divided by average net tangible assets) or working capital; (ix) operating cash flow (operating income plus or minus changes in working capital less capital expenditures); (x) cash flow, free cash flow, cash flow return on investment (discounted or otherwise), net cash provided by operations, or cash flow in excess of cost of capital; (xi) sales or sales growth; (xii) operating margin or profit margin; (xiii) share price or total shareholder return; (xiv) earnings from continuing operations; (xv) cost targets, reductions or savings, productivity or efficiencies; (xvi) economic value added; and (xvii) strategic business criteria, consisting of one or more objectives based on meeting specified market penetration or market share, geographic business expansion, customer satisfaction, employee satisfaction, human resources management, financial management, project management, supervision of litigation, information technology, or goals relating to divestitures, joint ventures or similar transactions.
Where applicable, the performance goals may be expressed in terms of attaining a specified level of the particular criterion or the attainment of a percentage increase or decrease in the particular criterion, and may be applied to one or more of Stanley or a parent or subsidiary of Stanley, or a division or strategic business unit of Stanley, all as determined by the Compensation and Organization Committee (the "Committee"). The performance goals may include a threshold level of performance below which no payment will be made (or no vesting will occur), levels of performance at which specified payments will be paid (or specified vesting will occur) and a maximum level of performance above which no additional payment will be made (or at which full vesting will occur).
Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Awards Agreement, the performance goals to be achieved during any performance period, the length of any performance period, the amount of any Performance Award granted, and the amount of any payment or transfer to be made pursuant to any Performance Award shall be determined by the Committee.
(g) General.
Section 7. Amendment and Termination
Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in an Award Agreement or in the Plan:
Section 8. General Provisions
Section 9. Change in Control
Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined), unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in an Award Agreement:
(a) 
Effective Date of the Plan
Section 10.
The Plan shall be effective as of January 25, 2001.
Section 11. Term of the Plan
No Award shall be granted under the Plan after January 24, 2011. However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the plan or in an applicable Award Agreement, any Award theretofore granted may extend beyond such date, and the authority of the Committee to amend, alter, or adjust any such Award, or to waive any conditions or rights under any such Award, and the authority of the Board of Directors of the Company to amend the Plan, shall extend beyond such date.

Exhibit 10.3
Each of the foregoing Performance Goals shall be evaluated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, where applicable, and shall be subject to certification by the Committee.
All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Committee shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company and the Participant (or any person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Participant).
Subject to Section 162(m) of the Code or as otherwise required for compliance with other applicable law, the Committee may delegate all or any part of its authority under the Plan to any officer or officers of the Company.

Exhibit 10.4
This document sets forth the Terms and Conditions applicable to long term performance awards issued to eligible Employees pursuant to either The Stanley Works 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan or The Stanley Works 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the as described in the Award Document.
("Performance Awards")
"Plan")
Each Performance Award represents the right of the Participant to receive a number of Shares to be issued if the Company achieves Performance Goals for the Measurement Period as set forth in the Award Document.
S = (A-L/N-L)x(SN-SL)
where: S =the additional number of Shares to be issued A =the actual EPS or ROCE achieved L =the EPS or ROCE Goal reached N =the next highest EPS or ROCE Goal SN =the number of Shares designated for issuance at the next highest EPS or ROCE Goal; and SL = the number of Shares designated for issuance at the EPS or ROCE Goal reached.
If, at the time of settlement, the Participant meets or exceeds the Minimum Ownership Guidelines, Shares shall be issued in the form of Unrestricted Stock. If the Participant does not meet the applicable Minimum Ownership Guidelines at the time of settlement, the Shares shall be issued in the form of Restricted Stock to the extent necessary for such Participant to meet such Minimum Ownership Guidelines at the time of settlement. Any additional Shares shall be issued in the form of Unrestricted Stock.
A letter or combination of letters to a Participant that advises the Participant that he or she has been selected to Participate in the program and sets forth the EPS Performance Goals, ROCE Performance Goals and Shares at the Threshold, Target and Maximum Levels, signed by the Chairman of the Committee, in the case of an Award Document to the Chief Executive Officer, and by the Chief Executive Officer, in the case of an Award Document to any other Participant.
Award Document.
Threshold, Target and Maximum earnings per share performance to be achieved over the Measurement Period as set forth in the Award Document.
EPS Performance Goals.
("EPS")
The period during which financial performance is measured against the applicable Performance Goals as set forth in the Award Document.
Measurement Period.
Minimum levels of stock ownership Participants are expected to reach over time, as set forth in the Award Document.
Minimum Ownership Guidelines.
EPS Performance Goals and ROCE Performance Goals as defined herein.
Performance Goals.
Common Stock of the Company that confers on holders the right to vote and receive dividends, but that is subject to certain restrictions on sale and transfer. All restrictions on sale and transfer of such stock shall lapse on the date the Participant's employment with the Company or any Affiliate terminates, regardless of the reason for termination, provided, however, that a transfer of employment from the Company to any Affiliate or from any Affiliate to another Affiliate or to the Company shall not be deemed a termination of employment hereunder. In addition, if through the acquisition of additional Shares or otherwise, the total market value of shares owned by a Participant (restricted and unrestricted) exceeds the applicable Minimum Ownership Guidelines, the restrictions on the sale and transfer of that number of Shares of Restricted Stock in excess of the number required to meet the applicable Minimum Ownership Guidelines shall lapse.
Restricted Stock.
Threshold, Target and Maximum return on capital employed performance to be achieved over the Measurement Period as set forth in the Award Document.
ROCE Performance Goals.
("ROCE")
Shares of Restricted Stock or Unrestricted Stock to be issued if Performance Goals are achieved, as specified in an Award Document, with 50% of Shares allocated to EPS Performance Goals and 50% of Shares allocated to ROCE Performance Goals.
Shares.
Common Stock of the Company that may be sold at any time.
Unrestricted Stock.

Exhibit 10.5
Date
Dear :
     
It is my pleasure to congratulate you for being selected to participate in the Long Term Performance Award Program (the "Program") under The 1997 Stanley Works Long-Term Incentive Plan. This Program is intended to provide substantial, equity-based rewards for specified full-time members of our senior executive team, provided specific Corporate goals are achieved during the Program's three year measurement period (January 1, 2006 through January 3, 2009).
In conjunction with our short-term variable compensation program (MICP) and our stock option program, the Program is an important addition to your total compensation package, and provides a strong additional incentive to continue increasing shareholder value.
Bonus Opportunity
Each participant will have an opportunity to earn a number of Performance Shares (PS) based upon achievement of corporate financial goals, and may earn additional performance shares if the corporate financial goals are exceeded. Each PS unit represents one share of Stanley Common Stock and, accordingly, the potential value of a participant's performance award under the Program may change as our stock price changes.
Each participant is allocated a threshold, target and maximum number of PS units based upon assigned percentages of his or her annual base salary, at the rate in effect as of January 1, 2006. The initial value of each PS unit is $51.51, the average of the high and low price of Stanley stock on March 20, 2006.
Your performance award covers the following number of PS units:
Vesting and Settlement
Performance awards will become vested at the time of settlement to the extent that the applicable performance metrics have been achieved and provided that the participant is continuously employed by Stanley until such time. Performance awards will be settled in shares of Stanley stock as soon as practicable following the end of the measurement period. The shares will be distributed in the form of restricted stock to the extent the participant does not hold the number of shares specified in the minimum stock ownership guidelines for executives at the time of settlement. Participants will be entitled to vote and receive dividends on restricted stock following the date of distribution.
The Minimum Ownership Guidelines are as follows:
If a participant's employment with Stanley terminates due to his or her retirement, death or disability prior to the date the performance awards are settled, the participant's performance award will be pro-rated based on the number of days in the measurement period that the participant was employed by Stanley. The participant's pro-rated performance award will be settled at the same time as performance awards for active participants are settled, to the extent the applicable performance metrics have been achieved. Pro-rated performance awards will be settled in the form of unrestricted shares of Stanley common stock. A participant whose employment with Stanley terminates prior to the date of settlement for any other reason will forfeit all rights in respect of his or her performance award and will not be entitled to receive any shares of Stanley stock or other payment under the Program.
Financial Measurements
The Corporate financial goals for this Program will consist of two equally weighted metrics, one based on EPS and one based on ROCE, as set forth in the attached document entitled LTIP Corporate Goals (2006-2008).
Although this summary includes the key aspects of the Program, it is not intended to represent a full accounting of the rules and regulations applicable to the Program and is subject to the terms described in the enclosed Terms and Conditions Applicable to Long Term Performance Awards and the Stanley Works 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which together with this document govern the Program.
If you have any questions, please call me, Jim Loree or Mark Mathieu. Once again, thank you for your continued support and congratulations on being selected to participate in this important Program.
Best regards,

Exhibit 10.6
The Long-Term Performance Award Program under the Stanley Works 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan for the performance period commencing January 1, 2006 and ending January 3, 2009 provides for the grant of performance units to the members of our senior executive team that are settled in shares of Stanley Common Stock if and to the extent corporate financial goals are achieved over the performance period. The performance criteria approved by the Compensation and Organization Committee under the 2006 to 2008 Long-Term Performance Award Program are based on achievement of corporate earnings per share and return on capital employed targets over the three year performance period from January 1, 2006 to January 3, 2009.
The range of performance units to be granted under the 2006 to 2008 Long-Term Performance Award Program to our Chief Executive Officer and other four most highly compensated executive officers for achievement of threshold performance is from 1,650 to 7,765 performance units, for achievement of target performance is from 3,300 to 15,530 performance units, and for achievement of maximum performance is from 6,601 to 31,062 performance units.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
THE STANLEY WORKS ANNOUNCES RESULTS OF SHAREOWNER VOTES AT 163
RD
ANNUAL MEETING
The Stanley Works () announced that, at its 163 annual meeting of shareowners held today, the following were the results of votes by shareowners:
New Britain, Connecticut, April 26, 2006 ...
NYSE: SWK
rd
John F. Lundgren, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, chaired the meeting and declared: "The five proposals  to elect two directors, to approve the appointment of E&Y as auditors, to approve The Stanley Works 2006 Management Incentive Compensation Plan, to approve certain changes to the 1997 and 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plans and to recommend all directors be elected annually  were approved."
The Stanley Works, an S&P 500 company, is a leading supplier of tools and security solutions for professional, industrial and consumer use.
Gerry Gould, Vice President, Investor Relations
Contact:
(860) 827-3833; ggould@stanleyworks.com
The Stanley Works corporate press releases are available under Financial News in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate web site at www.stanleyworks.com.


