FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20070323172147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
March 23, 2007 (March 20, 2007
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
)
THE STANLEY WORKS
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
1000 Stanley Drive New Britain, Connecticut 06053
(Address of principal executive offices)
860) 225-5111
Registrants telephone number: (
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On March 20, 2007, The Stanley Works (the Company) completed concurrent offerings of (i) 330,000 of its Floating Rate Equity Units (the Equity Units), which includes 30,000 Equity Units to cover over-allotments, and (ii) $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 5.00% Notes due 2010 (the Notes). Both offerings were made under the Companys existing Form S-3 shelf registration statement previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (File No. 333-117607). In connection with these offerings, the Company is filing certain exhibits as part of this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a)    Not applicable
(b)    Not applicable
(c)    Exhibits
4.4    Form of Corporate Units Certificate (included in Exhibit 4.1).
4.5    Form of Treasury Units Certificate (included in Exhibit 4.1).
4.6    Form of Unpledged Convertible Note.
4.7    Form of Pledged Convertible Note.
4.8    Form of Officers Certificate, dated March 20, 2006, relating to the 5.00% Notes due 2010.
4.9    Form of 5.00% Notes due 2010.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 23, 2007
Exhibit Index

                
PURCHASE CONTRACT AND PLEDGE AGREEMENT, dated as of March 20, 2007 among The Stanley Works, a Connecticut corporation (the ""), The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., not individually, but acting solely as purchase contract agent for, and as attorney-in-fact of, the Holders from time to time of the Units (in such capacities, together with its successors and assigns in such capacities, the ""), and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as collateral agent hereunder for the benefit of the Company (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the ""), as custodial agent (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the ""), and as securities intermediary (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(14) of the UCC) with respect to the Collateral Account (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the "").
Company
Purchase Contract Agent
Collateral Agent
Custodial Agent
Securities Intermediary
                
WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Certificates evidencing the Units;
                
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make the Purchase Contracts, when the Certificates are executed by the Company and authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Purchase Contract Agent, as provided in this Agreement, the valid obligations of the Company and the Holders, and to constitute these presents a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done;
                
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the Purchase Contracts, the Holders of the Units have irrevocably authorized the Purchase Contract Agent, as attorney-in-fact of such Holders, among other things, to execute and deliver this Agreement on behalf of such Holders and to grant the Pledge provided herein of the Collateral to secure the Obligations.
                
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
                
Section 1.01For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
.  Definitions.
(a)            the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular, and nouns and pronouns of the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter genders;
               
(b)            all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States;
               
(c)            the words "," "' and "" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section, Exhibit or other subdivision;
               
herein
hereof
hereunder
(d)            the following terms which are defined in the UCC shall have the meanings set forth therein: "" "" "" "" "" and ""; and
               
certificated security,
control,
financial asset,
entitlement order,
securities account
security entitlement
(e)            the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.01(e):
               
                
"" has the meaning, with respect to any Holder, set forth in Section 1.04.
Act
                
"" has the same meaning as given to that term in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, or any successor rule thereunder.
Affiliate
                
"" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more agreements supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof.
Agreement
                
"" on any Trading Day means the Daily VWAP of the Common Stock on such Trading Day.
Applicable Market Value
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.12(b).
Applicants
                
"" means the Company's Chief Executive Officer, its President or one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers, or any other officer or agent of the Company duly authorized by the Board of Directors to act in respect of this Agreement.
Authorized Officer
                
"" means Title 11 of the United States Code, or any other law of the United States that from time to time provides a uniform system of bankruptcy laws.
Bankruptcy Code
                
"" means, with respect to a Book-Entry Interest, a Person who is the beneficial owner of such Book-Entry Interest as reflected on the books of the Depositary or on the books of a Person maintaining an account with
Beneficial Owner
such Depositary (directly as a Depositary Participant or as an indirect participant, in each case in accordance with the rules of such Depositary).
                
"" means the board of directors of the Company or a duly authorized committee of that board.
Board of Directors
                
"" means one or more resolutions of the Board of Directors, a copy of which has been certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent.
Board Resolution
                
"" means a beneficial interest in a Global Certificate, registered in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof, ownership and transfers of which shall be maintained and made through book entries by such Depositary as described in Section 3.06.
Book-Entry Interest
                
"" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions and trust companies in New York City, New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
Business Day
                
"" means any coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Cash
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii).
Cash Merger
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii).
Cash Merger Early Settlement
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii).
Cash Merger Early Settlement Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii).
Cash Merger Observation Period
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a)(i).
Cash Settlement
                
"" means a Corporate Units Certificate or a Treasury Units Certificate, as the case may be.
Certificate
                
"" per share of Common Stock on any date of determination means:
Closing Price
                
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
                
"" means the collective reference to:
Collateral
                
"" means the securities account of HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained on the books of the Securities Intermediary and designated "HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as Collateral Agent of The Stanley Works, as pledgee of The Bank of New York
Collateral Account
Trust Company, N.A., as the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders".
                
"" means the Person named as "Collateral Agent" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Collateral Agent shall have become such pursuant to this Agreement, and thereafter "Collateral Agent" shall mean the Person who is then the Collateral Agent hereunder.
Collateral Agent
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13.01(b).
collateral event of default
                
"" means (i) with respect to the Corporate Units, the substitution of the Pledged Convertible Notes with Treasury Securities in an aggregate principal amount at maturity equal to the aggregate principal amount of such Pledged Convertible Notes or (ii) with respect to the Treasury Units, the substitution of the Pledged Treasury Securities included in such Treasury Units with Convertible Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of the Pledged Treasury Securities.
Collateral Substitution
                
"" means the common stock, $2.50 par value, of the Company.
Common Stock
                
"" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor.
Company
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(c)(i).
Constituent Person
                
"" means the payments payable by the Company on the Payment Dates in respect of each Purchase Contract, at a rate per year of 5.125% of the Stated Amount per Purchase Contract.
Contract Adjustment Payments
                
"" means the series of convertible senior notes designated the Convertible Notes of the Company issued pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture.
Convertible Notes
                
"" means the office of the Purchase Contract Agent at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attention: Global Corporate Trust, or such other address as the Purchase Contract Agent may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Purchase Contract Agent (or such other address as such successor Purchase Contract Agent may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders, the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent
Corporate Trust Office
and the Securities Intermediary); provided, however, that for purposes of payments, transfers, exchanges, presentment or surrender of Certificates, the Corporate Trust Office shall be located at the agency office of the Purchase Contract Agent at 101 Barclay Street, 8W, New York, New York 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust Division - Corporate Finance Unit, or such other address as the Purchase Contract Agent may designate from time to time by notice to the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Purchase Contract Agent (or such other address as such successor Purchase Contract Agent may designate from time to time by notice to the Company).
                
"" means the collective rights and obligations of a Holder of a Corporate Units Certificate in respect of the Convertible Notes, subject to the Pledge thereof, and the related Purchase Contract.
Corporate Unit
                
"" means a certificate evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number of Corporate Units specified on such certificate.
Corporate Units Certificate
                
"" means the Person named as Custodial Agent in the first Paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Custodial Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Custodial Agent" shall mean the Person who is then the Custodial Agent hereunder.
Custodial Agent
                
" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).
Daily Settlement Amount"
                
"" means, with respect to the Common Stock, the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg (or any successor service) page SWK.N <Equity> AQR in respect of the period from the scheduled opening of trading on the NYSE or, if not then listed on the NYSE, on such other primary market or exchange on which the Common Stock then trades to the scheduled close of trading on such Trading Day or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one share of the Common Stock on such Trading Day as determined by the Board of Directors in good faith using a volume-weighted method or by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company).
Daily VWAP
                
 "" means a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for the Units as contemplated by Sections 3.06 and 3.08.
Depositary
                
"" means a broker, dealer, bank, other financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time the Depositary effects book entry transfers and pledges of securities deposited with the Depositary.
Depositary Participant
                
"" means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(a).
Early Settlement
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(b).
Early Settlement Amount
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(b).
Early Settlement Date
                
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
                
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
                
"" means the first date upon which a sale of Common Stock does not automatically transfer the right to receive the relevant distribution from the seller of the Common Stock to the buyer of the Common Stock.
Ex-Dividend Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.04(e).
Expiration Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(iii).
Failed Remarketing
                
"" means a Certificate that evidences all or part of the Units and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee thereof.
Global Certificate
                
"" means, with respect to a Unit, the Person in whose name the Unit evidenced by a Certificate is registered in the Security Register.
Holder
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.07(c).
Indemnitees
                
"" means the Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2002, between the Company and the Indenture Trustee (including any provisions of the TIA that are deemed incorporated therein), as amended and supplemented from time to time, including by the Supplemental Indenture pursuant to which the Convertible Notes will be issued.
Indenture
                
"" means The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.) as trustee under the Indenture, or any successor thereto as described in the Indenture.
Indenture Trustee
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(a).
Initial Dividend Threshold
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Supplemental Indenture.
Interest Rate
                
"" or "" means a written order or request signed in the name of the Company by an Authorized Officer and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent.
Issuer Order
Issuer Request
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 15.08(b).
Losses
                
"" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half-hour period in the aggregate on any scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the NYSE or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
Market Disruption Event
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).
Maximum Daily Amount
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).
NASDAQ
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).
NYSE
                
"" means, with respect to each Holder, all obligations and liabilities of such Holder under such Holder's Purchase Contract and this Agreement or any other document made, delivered or given in connection herewith or therewith, in each case whether on account of principal, interest (including, without limitation, interest accruing before and after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the commencement of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, relating to such Holder, whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding), fees, indemnities, costs, expenses or otherwise (including, without limitation, all fees and disbursements of counsel to the Company or the Collateral Agent or the Securities Intermediary that are required to be paid by the Holder pursuant to the terms of any of the foregoing agreements).
Obligations
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).
Observation Period
                
"" means a certificate signed by the Authorized Officer and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent. Any Officer's Certificate delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Agreement shall include the information set forth in Section 1.02 hereof.
Officer's Certificate
                
"" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel to the Company (and who may be an employee of the Company), and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Purchase Contract Agent. An opinion of counsel may rely on certificates as to matters of fact.
Opinion of Counsel
                
"" means, as of any date of determination, all Units evidenced by Certificates theretofore authenticated, executed and delivered under this Agreement, except:
Outstanding
, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite number of the Units have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Units owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding Units, except that, in determining whether the Purchase Contract Agent shall be authorized and protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Units that a Responsible Officer of the Purchase Contract Agent actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Units so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding Units if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Purchase Contract Agent the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Units and that the pledgee is not the Company or any Affiliate of the Company.
provided, however
                
"" means each February 17, May 17, August 17 and November 17 of each year, commencing August 17, 2007.
Payment Date
                
"" means any one of the following, but, except for clause (4) below, in any case each investment shall not exceed 5% of the total debt outstanding of any single issuer:
Permitted Investments
                
"" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature.
Person
                
"" means an employee benefit plan that is subject to ERISA, a plan or individual retirement account that is subject to Section 4975 of the Code or any entity whose assets are considered assets of any such plan.
Plan
                
"" means the lien and security interest in the Collateral created by this Agreement.
Pledge
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 15.08(b).
Pledge Indemnitees
                
"" means the Convertible Notes and security entitlements with respect thereto from time to time credited to the Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge.
Pledged Convertible Notes
                
"" means the Pledged Convertible Notes and the Pledged Treasury Securities, collectively.
Pledged Securities
                
"" means Treasury Securities and security entitlements with respect thereto from time to time credited to the Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge.
Pledged Treasury Securities
                
"" means a Predecessor Corporate Units Certificate or a Predecessor Treasury Units Certificate.
Predecessor Certificate
                
"" of any particular Corporate Units Certificate means every previous Corporate Units Certificate evidencing all or a portion of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder under the Corporate Units evidenced thereby; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Corporate Units Certificate authenticated and delivered under Section 3.10 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Corporate Units Certificate shall be deemed to evidence the same rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Corporate Units Certificate.
Predecessor Corporate Units Certificate
                
"" of any particular Treasury Units Certificate means every previous Treasury Units Certificate evidencing all or a portion of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder under the Treasury Units evidenced thereby; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Treasury Units Certificate authenticated and delivered under Section 3.10 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Treasury Units Certificate shall be deemed to evidence the same rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Treasury Units Certificate.
Predecessor Treasury Units Certificate
                
"" means a primary U.S. government securities dealer.
Primary Treasury Dealer
                
"" or "" shall mean pro rata to each Holder according to the aggregate Stated Amount of the Units held by such Holder in relation to the aggregate Stated Amount of all Units outstanding, as determined by the Purchase Contract Agent.
Pro Rata
pro-rata
                
"" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the UCC and includes, without limitation, all interest, dividends, cash, instruments, securities, financial assets and other property received, receivable or otherwise distributed upon the sale (including, without limitation, any Remarketing), exchange, collection or disposition of any financial assets from time to time credited to the Collateral Account.
Proceeds
                
"" means the prospectus relating to the delivery of shares or any securities in connection with an Early Settlement pursuant to Section 5.07 or a Cash Merger Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts pursuant to Section
Prospectus
5.04(b)(ii), in the form in which first filed, or transmitted for filing, with the Securities and Exchange Commission after the effective date of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, including the documents incorporated by reference therein as of the date of such Prospectus.
                
"" means, with respect to any Unit, the contract forming a part of such Unit and obligating the Company to (i) sell, and the Holder of such Unit to purchase, shares of Common Stock and (ii) pay the Holder thereof Contract Adjustment Payments, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in Article 5 hereof.
Purchase Contract
                
"" means the Person named as the "Purchase Contract Agent" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Purchase Contract Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Purchase Contract Agent" shall mean such Person or any subsequent successor who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement.
Purchase Contract Agent
                
"" means May 17, 2010.
Purchase Contract Settlement Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.03.
Purchase Contract Settlement Fund
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).
Purchase Price
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Supplemental Indenture.
Put Right
                
"" means any Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Quotation Agent
                
"" for any distribution and any Contract Adjustment Payment payable on any Payment Date means the first day of the calendar month in which the relevant Payment Date falls (whether or not a Business Day).
Record Date
                
"" means, for purposes of Section 5.04(a), with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which Common Stock (or other applicable security) is subdivided, split, combined, or exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of holders of Common Stock subject to such subdivision, split or combination or entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
Record Date for Common Stock
                
"" means $54.45, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 5.04 hereof.
Reference Price
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(i).
Reference Property
                
"" means a registration statement under the Securities Act prepared by the Company covering, , the delivery by the Company of any securities in connection with an Early Settlement on the Early Settlement Date or a Cash Merger Early Settlement on the Cash Merger Early Settlement Date under Section 5.04(b)(ii), including all exhibits thereto and the documents incorporated by reference in the prospectus contained in such registration statement, and any post-effective amendments thereto.
Registration Statement
inter alia
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Remarketing Agreement.
Remarketing
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Supplemental Indenture.
Remarketing Agents
                
"" means a Remarketing Agreement to be entered into between the Company and the Remarketing Agents setting forth the terms of a Remarketing substantially in the form attached as Exhibit Q.
Remarketing Agreement
                
"" means May 10, 2010 and, if a Successful Remarketing does note occur on such date, May 11, 2010 as set forth in Section 5.02(b)(i).
Remarketing Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Remarketing Agreement.
Remarketing Fee
                
"" means 100% of the aggregate principal amount of Pledged Convertible Notes and Separate Convertible Notes to be remarketed in the Remarketing.
Remarketing Price
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Remarketing Agreement.
Remarketing Settlement Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b).
Reorganization Event
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Remarketing Agreement.
Reset Rate
                
"" means, when used with respect to the Purchase Contract Agent, any officer of the Purchase Contract Agent assigned to the Global Corporate Trust Division or the Corporate Trust Division - Corporate Finance Unit (or any successor division or unit), as applicable, of the Purchase Contract Agent located at the Corporate Trust Office of the Purchase Contract Agent, who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture, and for the purposes of Section 7.01(b)(ii) and the proviso of Section 7.02 shall also include any other officer of the Purchase Contract Agent to whom any corporate trust
Responsible Officer
matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
                
"" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
                
"" means the Person named as Securities Intermediary in the first Paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Securities Intermediary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Securities Intermediary" shall mean such successor or any subsequent successor.
Securities Intermediary
                
"" and "" have the respective meanings set forth in Section 3.05.
Security Register
Securities Registrar
                
"" means indebtedness of any kind of the Company unless the instrument under which such indebtedness is incurred expressly provides that it is on a parity in right of payment with or subordinate in right of payment to the Contract Adjustment Payments.
Senior Indebtedness
                
"" means Convertible Notes that have been released from the Pledge following Collateral Substitution and therefore no longer underlie Corporate Units.
Separate Convertible Notes
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).
Settlement Rate
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a)(iii).
Spin-Off
                
"" means, for each Purchase Contract, $1,000.
Stated Amount
                
"" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "" means stock which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
Subsidiary
voting stock
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(ii).
Successful Remarketing
                
"" means the Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of the date hereof between the Company and the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Convertible Notes are issued.
Supplemental Indenture
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Supplemental Indenture.
Tax Event
                
"" means the date, if any, on which a Termination Event occurs.
Termination Date
                
"" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Termination Event
                
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
TIA
                
"" means the Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to the TRADES Regulations.
TRADES
                
"" means the regulations of the United States Department of the Treasury, published at 31 C.F.R. Part 357, as amended from time to time. Unless otherwise defined herein, all terms defined in the TRADES Regulations are used herein as therein defined.
TRADES Regulations
                
"" means a day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) trading in securities generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other United States national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is
Trading Day
not then listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, in the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded.
                
 "" means (i) in the case of certificated securities in registered form, delivery as provided in Section 8-301(a) of the UCC, indorsed to the transferee or in blank by an effective endorsement; (ii) in the case of Treasury Securities, registration of the transferee as the owner of such Treasury Securities on TRADES; and (iii) in the case of security entitlements, including, without limitation, security entitlements with respect to Treasury Securities, a securities intermediary indicating by book entry that such security entitlement has been credited to the transferee's securities account.
Transfer
                
"" means zero-coupon U.S. treasury securities that mature on May 15, 2010 (CUSIP No. 912820LR6).
Treasury Securities
                
"" means, following the substitution of Treasury Securities for Pledged Convertible Notes as collateral to secure a Holder's obligations under the Purchase Contract, the collective rights and obligations of a Holder of a Treasury Units Certificate in respect of such Treasury Securities, subject to the Pledge thereof, and the related Purchase Contract.
Treasury Unit
                
"" means a certificate evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number of Treasury Units specified on such certificate.
Treasury Units Certificate
                
"" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of New York from time to time.
UCC
                
"" means the underwriters identified in Schedule II to the Underwriting Agreement.
Underwriters
                
"" means the Underwriting Agreement, dated March 20, 2007, between the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Banc of America Securities LLC, as representatives of the Underwriters, relating to the sale of Corporate Units.
Underwriting Agreement
                
"" means a Corporate Unit or a Treasury Unit, as the case may be.
Unit
                
"" means the Prospectus Supplement dated March 14, 2007, to the Prospectus dated July 23, 2004, which is a part of the registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-117607), filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Units Prospectus
                
"" means, with respect to any item of Collateral on any date, as to (1) Cash, the amount thereof, (2) Treasury Securities, the aggregate principal amount
Value
thereof at maturity and (3) Convertible Notes, the aggregate principal amount of such Convertible Notes.
                
Section 1.02Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement, upon any application or request by the Company to the Purchase Contract Agent to take any action in accordance with any provision of this Agreement, the Company shall furnish to the Purchase Contract Agent an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Agreement relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Agreement relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
.  Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
                
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Agreement shall include:
                
Section 1.03  
.  Form of Documents Delivered to Purchase Contract Agent.
                
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents. Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters,
upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which its certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
                
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Agreement, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
                
Section 1.04(a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Agreement to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Agreement and (subject to Section 7.01) conclusive in favor of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
.  Acts of Holders; Record Dates.
Act
(b)   The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved in any manner that the Purchase Contract Agent deems sufficient.
                 
 
(c)   The ownership of Units shall be proved by the Security Register.
                 
 
(d) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Unit shall bind every future Holder of the same Unit and the Holder of every Certificate evidencing such Unit issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Purchase Contract Agent or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Certificate.
                 
   
(e) The Company may set any date as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Units entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Agreement to be given, made or taken by Holders. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of the Outstanding Corporate Units and the Outstanding Treasury Units, as the case may be, on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action with respect to the Corporate Units or the Treasury Units, as the case may be, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken prior to or on the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite number of Outstanding Units on such record date. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and be of no effect), and nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite number of Outstanding Units on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Purchase Contract Agent in writing and to each Holder in the manner set forth in Section 1.06.
                 
   
provided
                
With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section 1.04(e), the Company may designate any date as the "" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any later day; that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the Purchase Contract Agent in writing, and to each Holder in the manner set forth in Section 1.06, prior to or on the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the Company shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date.
Expiration Date
provided
                
Section 1.05All notices, requests, consents and other communications provided for herein (including, without limitation, any modifications of, or waivers or consents under, this Agreement) shall be given or made in writing (including, without limitation, by telecopy) delivered to the intended recipient at the "Address for Notices" specified below its name on the signature pages hereof or, as to any party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the other parties. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all such communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when transmitted by telecopier (and in the case of the Purchase
.  Notices.
Contract Agent, upon the Purchase Contract Agent's confirmation of receipt in writing or by telephone) or personally delivered or, in the case of a mailed notice, upon receipt, in each case given or addressed as aforesaid.
                
The Purchase Contract Agent shall send to the Indenture Trustee at the following address a copy of any notices in the form of Exhibits C, D, E, F, H or J it sends or receives:
                
Section 1.06Where this Agreement provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder, at its address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Agreement provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Purchase Contract Agent, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
.  Notice to Holders; Waiver.
                
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Purchase Contract Agent shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
                
Section 1.07The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
.  Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
                
Section 1.08This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary, and the Holders from time to time of the Units, by their acceptance of the same, shall be deemed to have agreed to be bound by the provisions hereof and to have ratified the agreements of, and the grant of the Pledge hereunder by, the Purchase Contract Agent.
.  Successors and Assigns.
                
Section 1.09In case any provision in this Agreement or in the Units shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof and thereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
.  Separability Clause.
                
Section 1.10Nothing contained in this Agreement or in the Units, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and, to the extent provided hereby, the Holders, any benefits or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement. The Holders from time to time shall be beneficiaries of this Agreement and shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions hereof and of the Units evidenced by their Certificates by their acceptance of delivery of such Certificates.
.  Benefits of Agreement.
                
Section 1.11THIS AGREEMENT AND THE UNITS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW PROVISIONS THEREOF TO THE EXTENT A DIFFERENT LAW WOULD GOVERN AS A RESULT.
.  Governing Law; Waiver of Trial by Jury.
                
EACH PARTY HERETO, AND EACH HOLDER OF A UNIT BY ACCEPTANCE THEREOF, HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT.
                
Section 1.12In any case where any Payment Date shall not be a Business Day (notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Units), Contract Adjustment Payments or other distributions shall not be paid on such date, but Contract Adjustment Payments or such other distributions shall be paid on the next succeeding Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on such scheduled Payment Date; that if such Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, the payment date for Contract Adjustment Payments or other distributions shall be brought forward to the immediately preceding Business Day; that no interest or other amount shall accrue or be payable by the Company or to any Holder in respect of such delay.
.  Legal Holidays.
provided
provided further
                
In any case where the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or any Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger Early Settlement Date shall not be a Business Day (notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Units), Purchase Contracts shall not be performed and Early Settlement and Cash Merger Early Settlement shall not be effected on such date, but Purchase Contracts shall be performed or Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement shall be
effected, as applicable, on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Purchase Contract Settlement Date, Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger Early Settlement Date, as applicable.
                
Section 1.13This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts by the parties hereto, each of which, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
.  Counterparts.
                
Section 1.14A copy of this Agreement shall be available at all reasonable times during normal business hours at the Corporate Trust Office for inspection by any Holder or Beneficial Owner.
.  Inspection of Agreement.
                
Section 1.15The Company may appoint a financial institution (which may be the Collateral Agent, that it shall have accepted such appointment) to act as its agent in performing its obligations and in accepting and enforcing performance of the obligations of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders, under this Agreement and the Purchase Contracts, by giving notice of such appointment in the manner provided in Section 1.05 hereof. Any such appointment shall not relieve the Company in any way from its obligations hereunder.
.  Appointment of Financial Institution as Agent for the Company.
provided
                
Section 1.16No failure on the part of the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents to exercise, and no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents of any right, power or remedy hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
.  No Waiver.
                
Section 2.01The Certificates (including the form of Purchase Contract forming part of each Unit evidenced thereby) shall be in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto (in the case of Corporate Units Certificates) or Exhibit B hereto (in the case of Treasury Units Certificates), with such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as may be required by the rules of any securities exchange on which the Units are listed or any depositary therefor, or as may, consistently herewith, be
.  Forms of Certificates Generally.
determined by the officers of the Company executing such Certificates, as evidenced by their execution of the Certificates.
                
The definitive Certificates shall be produced in any manner as determined by the officers of the Company executing the Units evidenced by such Certificates, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, as evidenced by their execution thereof.
                
Every Global Certificate authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A and Exhibit B for a Global Certificate.
                
Section 2.02The form of the Purchase Contract Agent's certificate of authentication of the Units shall be in substantially the form set forth on the form of the applicable Certificates.
.  Form of Purchase Contract Agent's Certificate of Authentication.
                
Section 3.01The aggregate number of Units evidenced by Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder is limited to 330,000, except for Certificates authenticated, executed and delivered upon registration of transfer of, in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Certificates pursuant to Section 3.04, Section 3.05, Section 3.10, Section 3.13, Section 3.14 or Section 8.05.
.  Amount; Form and Denominations.
                
The Certificates shall be issuable only in registered form and only in denominations of a single Corporate Unit or Treasury Unit and any integral multiple thereof.
                
Section 3.02Each Corporate Units Certificate shall evidence the number of Corporate Units specified therein, with each such Corporate Unit representing (1) the ownership by the Holder thereof of a $1,000 principal amount Convertible Note subject to the Pledge of such Convertible Note by such Holder pursuant to this Agreement, and (2) the rights and obligations of the Holder thereof and the Company under one Purchase Contract. The Purchase Contract Agent is hereby authorized, as attorney-in-fact for, and on behalf of, the Holder of each Corporate Unit, to pledge, pursuant to Article 11 hereof, the Convertible Note, forming a part of such Corporate Unit to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, and to grant to the Collateral Agent, as agent of and for the benefit of the Company, a security interest in the right, title and interest of such Holder in such Convertible Note to secure the obligation of the Holder under each Purchase Contract to
.  Rights and Obligations Evidenced by the Certificates.
purchase shares of Common Stock. To effect such Pledge and grant such security interest, the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holders of Corporate Units has, on the date hereof, delivered to the Collateral Agent the Convertible Notes.
                
Upon the formation of a Treasury Unit pursuant to Section 3.13, each Treasury Units Certificate shall evidence the number of Treasury Units specified therein, with each such Treasury Unit representing (1) the ownership by the Holder thereof of a Treasury Security with a principal amount equal to $1,000, subject to the Pledge of such Treasury Security by such Holder pursuant to this Agreement, and (2) the rights and obligations of the Holder thereof and the Company under one Purchase Contract. The Purchase Contract Agent is hereby authorized, as attorney-in-fact for, and on behalf of, the Holder of each Treasury Unit, to pledge, pursuant to Article 11 hereof, such Holder's interest in the Treasury Security forming a part of such Treasury Unit to the Collateral Agent, as agent of and for the benefit of the Company, and to grant to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, a security interest in the right, title and interest of such Holder in such Treasury Security to secure the obligation of the Holder under each Purchase Contract to purchase shares of Common Stock.
                
Prior to the purchase of shares of Common Stock under each Purchase Contract, such Purchase Contracts shall not entitle the Holder of a Unit to any of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock, including, without limitation, the right to vote or receive any dividends or other payments or to consent or to receive notice as a shareholder in respect of the meetings of shareholders or for the election of directors of the Company or for any other matter, or any other rights whatsoever as a shareholder of the Company.
                
Section 3.03Subject to the provisions of Section 3.13 and Section 3.14 hereof, upon the execution and delivery of this Agreement, and at any time and from time to time thereafter, the Company may deliver Certificates executed by the Company to the Purchase Contract Agent for authentication, execution on behalf of the Holders and delivery, together with its Issuer Order for authentication of such Certificates, and the Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with such Issuer Order shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holders and deliver such Certificates.
.  Execution, Authentication; Delivery and Dating.
                
The Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Treasurer, one of its Vice Presidents or one of its Assistant Treasurers. The signature of any of these officers on the Certificates may be manual or facsimile.
                
Certificates bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such
offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Certificates or did not hold such offices at the date of such Certificates.
                
No Purchase Contract evidenced by a Certificate shall be valid until such Certificate has been executed on behalf of the Holder by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Purchase Contract Agent, as such Holder's attorney-in-fact. Such signature by an authorized officer of the Purchase Contract Agent shall be conclusive evidence that the Holder of such Certificate has entered into the Purchase Contracts evidenced by such Certificate.
                
Each Certificate shall be dated the date of its authentication.
                
No Certificate shall be entitled to any benefit under this Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Certificate a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by an authorized officer of the Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, and such certificate of authentication upon any Certificate shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Certificate has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
                
Section 3.04Pending the preparation of definitive Certificates, the Company may execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holders, and deliver, in lieu of such definitive Certificates, temporary Certificates which are in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A or Exhibit B hereto, as the case may be, with such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as may be required by the rules of any securities exchange on which the Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, are listed, or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Certificates, as evidenced by their execution of the Certificates.
.  Temporary Certificates.
                
If temporary Certificates are issued, the Company will cause definitive Certificates to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Certificates, the temporary Certificates shall be exchangeable for definitive Certificates upon surrender of the temporary Certificates at the Corporate Trust Office, at the expense of the Company and without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Certificates, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver in exchange therefor, one or more definitive Certificates of like tenor and denominations and evidencing a like number of Units as the temporary Certificate or Certificates so surrendered. Until so exchanged, the temporary Certificates shall in all respects evidence the same benefits and the
same obligations with respect to the Units evidenced thereby as definitive Certificates.
                
Section 3.05The Purchase Contract Agent shall keep at the Corporate Trust Office a register (the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Purchase Contract Agent shall provide for the registration of Certificates and of transfers of Certificates (the Purchase Contract Agent, in such capacity, the ""). The Security Registrar shall record separately the registration and transfer of the Certificates evidencing Corporate Units and Treasury Units.
.  Registration; Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
Security Register
Security Registrar
                
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Certificate at the Corporate Trust Office, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the designated transferee or transferees, and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Certificates of any authorized denominations, like tenor, and evidencing a like number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be.
                
At the option of the Holder, Certificates may be exchanged for other Certificates, of any authorized denominations and evidencing a like number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, upon surrender of the Certificates to be exchanged at the Corporate Trust Office. Whenever any Certificates are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver the Certificates which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
                
All Certificates issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of a Certificate shall evidence the ownership of the same number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, and be entitled to the same benefits and subject to the same obligations under this Agreement as the Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, evidenced by the Certificate surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
                
Every Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall (if so required by the Purchase Contract Agent) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent duly executed by the Holder thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing.
                
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of a Certificate, but the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent may require payment from the Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other
governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Certificates, other than any exchanges pursuant to Section 3.04, Section 3.06 and Section 8.05 not involving any transfer.
                
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be obligated to authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder and deliver any Certificate in exchange for any other Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange on or after the Business Day immediately preceding the earliest to occur of any Early Settlement Date with respect to such Certificate, any Cash Merger Early Settlement Date with respect to such Certificate, the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or the Termination Date. In lieu of delivery of a new Certificate, upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions specified above in this Section and receipt of appropriate registration or transfer instructions from such Holder, the Purchase Contract Agent shall:
                
Section 3.06The Certificates will be issued in the form of one or more fully registered Global Certificates, to be delivered to the Depositary or its custodian by, or on behalf of, the Company. The Company hereby designates DTC as the initial Depositary. Such Global Certificates shall initially be registered on the Security Register in the name of Cede & Co., the nominee of the Depositary, and no Beneficial Owner will receive a definitive Certificate representing such Beneficial Owner's interest in such Global Certificate, except as provided in Section 3.09. The Purchase Contract Agent shall enter into an agreement with the Depositary if so requested by the Company. Following the issuance of such Global Certificates and unless and until definitive, and fully registered Certificates have been issued to Beneficial Owners pursuant to Section 3.09:
.  Book-entry Interests.
                
Transfers of securities evidenced by Global Certificates shall be made through the facilities of the Depositary, and any cancellation of, or increase or decrease in the number of, such securities (including the creation of Treasury Units and the recreation of Corporate Units pursuant to Section 3.13 and Section 3.14, respectively) shall be accomplished by making appropriate annotations on the Schedule of Increases and Decreases set forth in such Global Certificate.
                
Section 3.07Whenever a notice or other communication to the Holders is required to be given under this Agreement, the Company or the Company's agent shall give such notices and communications to the Holders and, with respect to any Units registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary, the Company or the Company's agent shall, except as set forth herein, have no obligations to the Beneficial Owners.
.  Notices to Holders.
                
Section 3.08If the Depositary elects to discontinue its services as securities depositary with respect to the Units, the Company may, in its sole discretion, appoint a successor Depositary with respect to the Units.
.  Appointment of Successor Depositary.
                
Section 3.09
. Definitive Certificates.
 
                
If:
then (x) definitive Certificates shall be prepared by the Company with respect to such Units and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent and (y) upon surrender of the Global Certificates representing the Units by the Depositary, accompanied by registration instructions (other than in the case of clause (iv) above), the Company shall cause definitive Certificates to be delivered to Beneficial Owners in accordance with instructions provided by the Depositary. The Company and the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any delay in delivery of such instructions and may conclusively rely on and shall be authorized and protected in relying on, such instructions. Each definitive Certificate so delivered shall evidence Units of the same kind and tenor as the Global Certificate so surrendered in respect thereof.
                
Section 3.10If any mutilated Certificate is surrendered to the Purchase Contract Agent, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver in exchange therefor, a new Certificate, evidencing the same number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, and bearing a Certificate number not contemporaneously outstanding.
.  Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Certificates.
                
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Certificate, and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to hold each of them and any agent of any of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent that such Certificate has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver to the Holder, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate, a new Certificate, evidencing the same number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, and bearing a Certificate number not contemporaneously outstanding.
                
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be obligated to authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver to the Holder, a Certificate on or after the Business Day immediately preceding the earliest of any Early Settlement Date with respect to such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Certificate, any Cash Merger Early Settlement Date with respect to such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Certificate, the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or the Termination Date. In lieu of delivery of a new Certificate, upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions specified above in this Section and receipt of appropriate registration or transfer instructions from such Holder, the Purchase Contract Agent shall:
                
Upon the issuance of any new Certificate under this Section, the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent may require the payment by the Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other fees and expenses (including, without limitation, the fees and expenses of the Purchase Contract Agent) connected therewith.
                
Every new Certificate issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and of the Holder in respect of the Units evidenced thereby, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate (and the Units evidenced thereby) shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits and be subject to all the obligations of this Agreement equally and proportionately with any and all other Certificates delivered hereunder.
                
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude, to the extent lawful, all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificates.
                
Section 3.11Prior to due presentment of a Certificate for registration of transfer, the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent, and any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent, may treat the Person in whose name such Certificate is registered as the owner of the Units evidenced thereby for purposes of (subject to any applicable record date) any payment or distribution with respect to the Convertible Notes, as applicable, payment of Contract Adjustment Payments and performance of the Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever in connection with such Units, whether or not such payment, distribution, or performance shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and neither the Company nor the Purchase Contract Agent, nor any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent, shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
.  Persons Deemed Owners.
                
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Global Certificate, nothing contained herein shall prevent the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent or any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary (or its nominee), as a Holder, with respect to such Global Certificate, or impair, as between such Depositary and the related Beneficial Owner, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of rights of the Depositary (or its nominee) as Holder of such Global Certificate. None of the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent or any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Certificate or maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
                
Section 3.12All Certificates surrendered for delivery of shares of Common Stock on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or in connection with an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement or for delivery of the Convertible Notes or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, after the occurrence of a Termination Event or pursuant to a Cash Settlement, an Early
.  Cancellation.
Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement, a Collateral Substitution, or upon the registration of transfer or exchange of a Unit, shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Purchase Contract Agent, be delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent along with appropriate written instructions regarding the cancellation thereof and, if not already cancelled, shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent for cancellation any Certificates previously authenticated, executed and delivered hereunder that the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Certificates so delivered shall, upon an Issuer Order, be promptly cancelled by the Purchase Contract Agent. No Certificates shall be authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holder and delivered in lieu of or in exchange for any Certificates cancelled as provided in this Section 3.12, except as expressly permitted by this Agreement. All cancelled Certificates held by the Purchase Contract Agent shall be disposed of in accordance with its customary practices.
                
If the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall acquire any Certificate, such acquisition shall not operate as a cancellation of such Certificate unless and until such Certificate is delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent cancelled or for cancellation.
                
Section 3.13(a) Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, a Holder of Corporate Units may, at any time from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date, effect a Collateral Substitution and separate the Convertible Notes in respect of such Holder's Corporate Units by substituting for such Convertible Notes, Treasury Securities in an aggregate principal amount at maturity equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes. To effect such substitution, the Holder must:
.  Creation of Treasury Units by Substitution of Treasury Securities.
                
Upon confirmation that the Treasury Securities described in clause (1) above or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account and receipt of the instruction to the Collateral Agent described
in clause (2) above, the Collateral Agent shall release such Pledged Convertible Notes from the Pledge and instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit G hereto, to Transfer the Pledged Convertible Notes to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Securities Intermediary and the Collateral Agent shall take no action to release such Pledged Convertible Notes from the Pledge unless and until the direction is provided by the Purchase Contract Agent substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto.
                
Upon credit to the Collateral Account of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto delivered by a Holder of Corporate Units and receipt of the related instruction from the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary shall promptly Transfer the Pledged Convertible Notes to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.
                
Upon receipt of the Pledged Convertible Notes, the Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly:
                
Holders who elect to separate the Convertible Notes by substituting Treasury Securities for Convertible Notes shall be responsible for any fees or expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses payable to the Collateral Agent), in respect of the substitution, and neither the Company nor the Purchase Contract Agent shall be responsible for any such fees or expenses.
                (b) In the event a Holder making a Collateral Substitution pursuant to this Section 3.13 fails to effect a book-entry transfer of the Corporate Units or fails to deliver Corporate Units Certificates to the Purchase Contract Agent after depositing Treasury Securities with the Securities Intermediary, any distributions on the Convertible Notes constituting a part of such Corporate Units, shall be held
     
in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent or its nominee in trust for the benefit of such Holder, until such Corporate Units are so transferred or the Corporate Units Certificate is so delivered, as the case may be, or such Holder provides evidence satisfactory to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent that such Corporate Units Certificate has been destroyed, lost or stolen, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company.
                 (c) Except as described in Section 5.02 or in this Section 3.13 or in connection with a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event, for so long as the Purchase Contract underlying a Corporate Unit remains in effect, such Corporate Units shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the Holder in respect of the Convertible Notes and the Purchase Contract comprising such Corporate Units may be acquired, and may be transferred and exchanged, only as a Corporate Unit.
     
                
Section 3.14(a) Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, a Holder of Treasury Units may effect a Collateral Substitution and recreate Corporate Units at any time from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date. To recreate Corporate Units, the Holder must:
.  Recreation of Corporate Units.
                
Upon confirmation that the Convertible Notes described in clause (1) above or security entitlements with respect thereto has been credited to the Collateral Account and receipt of the instruction from the Purchase Contract Agent described in clause (2) above, the Collateral Agent shall release such Pledged Treasury Securities from the Pledge and shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit I hereto, to Transfer such Pledged Treasury Securities to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.
                
Upon credit to the Collateral Account of Convertible Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto delivered by a Holder of Treasury Units and receipt of the related instruction from the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary shall promptly Transfer the Pledged Treasury Securities to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Securities Intermediary and the Collateral Agent shall take no action to release such Pledged Convertible Notes from the Pledge unless and until the direction is provided by the Purchase Contract Agent substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto.
                
Upon receipt of such Treasury Securities, the Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly:
                
Holders who elect to recreate Corporate Units shall be responsible for any fees or expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses payable to the Collateral Agent), in respect of the recreation, and neither the Company nor the Purchase Contract Agent shall be responsible for any such fees or expenses.
(b) Except as provided in Section 5.02 or in this Section 3.14 or in connection with a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event, for so long as the Purchase Contract underlying a Treasury Unit remains in effect, such Treasury Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts and the rights and obligations of the Holder of such Treasury Unit in respect of the interest in the Treasury Security and the Purchase Contract comprising such Treasury Unit may be acquired, and may be transferred and exchanged, only as a Treasury Unit.
                
     
                
Section 3.15(a) Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Purchase Contract Agent shall notify the Collateral Agent of the occurrence thereof and request the release of the Collateral from the Pledge. Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of such written notice or written notice pursuant to Section 5.06 hereof from the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent that a Termination Event has occurred,
.  Transfer of Collateral Upon Occurrence of Termination Event.
the Collateral Agent shall release all Collateral from the Pledge and shall promptly instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer:
to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the Holders for distribution to such Holders, in accordance with their respective interests, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in clause (a) of this Section 3.15, if such Termination Event shall result from the Company's becoming a debtor under the Bankruptcy Code, and if the Collateral Agent shall for any reason fail promptly to effectuate the release and Transfer of all Pledged Convertible Notes, Pledged Treasury Securities and payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such payments) pursuant to Section 5.02 and Proceeds and all other payments received by the Collateral Agent in respect of the foregoing, as the case may be, as provided by this Section 3.15, the Purchase Contract Agent shall use its best efforts to obtain an opinion of a nationally recognized law firm to the effect that, notwithstanding the Company's being the debtor in such a bankruptcy case, the Collateral Agent will not be prohibited from releasing or Transferring the Collateral as provided in this Section 3.15, and shall deliver or cause to be delivered such opinion to the Collateral Agent within ten days after the occurrence of such Termination Event, and if (A) the Purchase Contract Agent shall be unable to obtain such opinion within ten days after the occurrence of such Termination Event or (B) the Collateral Agent shall continue, after delivery of such opinion, to refuse to effectuate the release and Transfer of all Pledged Convertible Notes, Pledged Treasury Securities and the payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such payments) pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof and Proceeds and all other payments received by the Collateral Agent in respect of the foregoing, as the case may be, as provided in this Section 3.15, then the Purchase Contract Agent shall within fifteen days after the occurrence of such Termination Event commence an action or proceeding in the court having jurisdiction of the Company's case under the Bankruptcy Code seeking an order requiring the Collateral Agent to effectuate the release and transfer of all Pledged Convertible Notes, Pledged Treasury Securities and the payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such payments) pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof and
                 
     
Proceeds and all other payments received by the Collateral Agent in respect of the foregoing, or as the case may be, as provided by this Section 3.15.
(c) Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event and the Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent of the Pledged Convertible Notes or the Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, pursuant to Section 3.15, the Purchase Contract Agent shall request transfer instructions with respect to such Convertible Notes or Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, from each Holder by written request, substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto, mailed to such Holder at its address as it appears in the Security Register.
                 
     
(d) Upon book-entry transfer of the Corporate Units or the Treasury Units or delivery of a Corporate Units Certificate or Treasury Units Certificate to the Purchase Contract Agent with such transfer instructions, the Purchase Contract Agent shall transfer the Pledged Convertible Notes or Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, underlying such Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, to such Holder by book-entry transfer, or other appropriate procedures, in accordance with such instructions and, in the case of the Pledged Convertible Notes, in accordance with the terms of the Supplemental Indenture. In the event a Holder of Corporate Units or Treasury Units fails to effect such transfer or delivery, the Pledged Convertible Notes or Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, underlying such Corporate Units of Treasury Units, as the case maybe, and any distributions thereon, shall be held in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent or its nominee in trust for the benefit of such Holder, until the earlier to occur of:
                 
     
                
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Purchase Contract Agent may opt to deliver to the Company any funds or property held for two years, in which event the Company shall have sole responsibility for compliance with all applicable escheat laws with respect to all funds or property returned to it pursuant to this sentence.
                
Section 3.16Each Holder of a Unit, by acceptance thereof, shall be deemed expressly to have (a) withheld any consent to the assumption under Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise, of the Purchase Contract by the Company or its trustee, receiver, liquidator or a person or entity performing similar functions in the event that the Company becomes a debtor under the Bankruptcy Code or subject to other similar state or Federal law providing for reorganization or liquidation and (b) agreed with the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary that the transaction contemplated by the Purchase Contract constitutes a "swap agreement" within the meaning of Section 101 (53B) of the Bankruptcy Code and that each such Holder shall constitute a "swap participant" within the meaning of Section 101 (53C) of the Bankruptcy Code.
.  No Consent to Assumption.
                
Section 3.17Whenever a Holder has the right to substitute Treasury Securities or Convertible Notes, as the case may be, or security entitlements for either of them for financial assets held in the Collateral Account, such substitution shall not constitute a novation of the security interest created hereby.
.  Substitutions.
                
Section 4.01(a) The Collateral Agent shall transfer all income and distributions received by it on account of the Pledged Convertible Notes (if the Pledged Convertible Notes are in the name of the Collateral Agent) or Permitted Investments from time to time held in the Collateral Account to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to the applicable Holders as provided in this Agreement and the Purchase Contracts.
.  Interest Payments; Rights to Interest Payments Preserved.
                
(b) Any payment on any Convertible Note on any Payment Date which is paid on or immediately prior to any Payment Date shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Purchase Contract Agent from the Company or from the Collateral Agent as provided in Section 4.01(a) above, be paid on the related Payment Date to the Person in whose name the Corporate Units Certificate (or one or more Predecessor Corporate Units Certificates) relating to such Convertible Note is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date.
     
                
(c) Each Corporate Units Certificate delivered under this Agreement upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Corporate Units Certificate shall carry the right to accrued and unpaid interest or distributions, and to accrued interest or distributions, which were carried by Convertible Notes underlying such other Corporate Units Certificate.
     
                
(d) In the case of any Corporate Unit with respect to which (1) Cash Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to Section 5.02(a) hereof, (2) Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to Section 5.07 hereof, (3) Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(ii) hereof or (4) a Collateral Substitution is properly effected pursuant to Section 3.13, in each case on a date that is after any Record Date and prior to or on the next succeeding Payment Date, interest in respect of the Convertible Notes underlying such Corporate Unit otherwise payable on such Payment Date shall be payable on such Payment Date notwithstanding such Cash Settlement, Early Settlement, Cash Merger Early Settlement or Collateral Substitution, and such payment or distributions shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Purchase Contract Agent, be payable to the Person in whose name the Corporate Units Certificate (or one or more Predecessor Corporate Units Certificates) was registered at the close of business on the Record Date.
     
                
(e) Except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 4.01(d) hereof, in the case of any Corporate Unit with respect to which Cash Settlement, Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of the component Purchase Contract is properly effected, or with respect to which a Collateral Substitution has been effected, payments attributable to the Convertible Notes that would otherwise be payable or made after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, Early Settlement Date, Cash Merger Early Settlement Date or the date of the Collateral Substitution, as the case may be, shall not be payable hereunder to the Holder of such Corporate Units; , that to the extent that such Holder continues to hold Separate Convertible Notes that formerly comprised a part of such Holder's Corporate Units, such Holder shall be entitled to receive interest on such Separate Convertible Notes.
     
provided, however
                
Section 4.02(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 5.02, Section 5.04(b)(ii) and Section 5.07, and except as provided in Section 4.02(b) below, if no Termination Event shall have occurred, all principal payments received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of (1) the Pledged Convertible Notes and (2) the Pledged Treasury Securities, shall be credited to the Collateral Account, to be invested in Permitted Investments until the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, and transferred to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date as provided in Section 5.02 hereof. Any balance remaining in the Collateral Account shall be released from the Pledge and transferred to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. The Company shall instruct the Collateral Agent in writing as to the specific Permitted Investments in which any payments made under this Section 4.02 shall be invested, , that if the Company fails to deliver such instructions by 10:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the day such payments are received by
.  Payments Prior to or on Purchase Contract Settlement Date.
provided, however
the Securities Intermediary, the Securities Intermediary shall invest such payments in the Permitted Investments described in clause (4) of the definition of Permitted Investments, and , that any such Permitted Investments shall mature on or prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. In no event shall the Collateral Agent or the Securities Intermediary be liable for the selection of Permitted Investments or for investment losses incurred thereon. Neither the Collateral Agent nor the Securities Intermediary shall have any liability in respect of losses incurred based on acting or omitting to act under this Section 4.02(a) pursuant to any direction of the Company or as a result of the failure of the Company to provide timely written investment direction.
provided, further, however
                
(b) All payments received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of (1) the Convertible Notes and (2) the Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto, that, in each case, have been released from the Pledge pursuant hereto shall be transferred to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests.
     
                
Section 4.03(a) Subject to Section 4.03(b) hereof, the Purchase Contract Agent may exercise, or refrain from exercising, any and all voting and other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Convertible Notes or any part thereof for any purpose not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement; that the Purchase Contract Agent shall not exercise or shall not refrain from exercising such right, as the case may be, if, in the judgment of the Purchase Contract Agent, such action would impair or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the value of all or any of the Pledged Convertible Notes; and that the Purchase Contract Agent shall give the Company and the Collateral Agent at least five Business Days' prior written notice of the manner in which it intends to exercise, or its reasons for refraining from exercising, any such right. Upon receipt of any notices and other communications in respect of any Pledged Convertible Notes, including either notice of any meeting at which holders of the Convertible Notes are entitled to vote or the solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of holders of the Convertible Notes, the Collateral Agent shall send promptly to the Purchase Contract Agent such notice or communication, and as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of a written request therefor from the Purchase Contract Agent, to execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent such proxies and other instruments in respect of such Pledged Convertible Notes (in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Agent) as are prepared by the Company and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent with respect to the Pledged Convertible Notes.
.  Notice and Voting.
provided
provided further
                
(b) Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which holders of Convertible Notes are entitled to vote or upon any solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of holders of Convertible Notes, the Purchase Contract Agent
     
shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail, first class, postage pre-paid, to the Holders of Corporate Units a notice:
                
Upon the written request of the Holders of Corporate Units on such record date received by the Purchase Contract Agent at least six days prior to such meeting or the expiration date of any consent solicitation, the Purchase Contract Agent shall endeavor insofar as practicable to vote or cause to be voted or to consent with respect to, in accordance with the instructions set forth in such requests, the maximum aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes as to which any particular voting or consenting instructions are received. In the absence of specific instructions from the Holder of Corporate Units, the Purchase Contract Agent shall abstain from voting or consenting with respect to the Convertible Notes that are a component of such Corporate Units. The Company hereby agrees, if applicable, to solicit Holders of Corporate Units to timely instruct the Purchase Contract Agent as to the exercise of such voting or consenting rights in order to enable the Purchase Contract Agent to vote or consent with respect to such Convertible Notes.
                
(c) The Holders of Corporate Units and the Holders of Treasury Units shall, in their capacity as Holders, have no voting rights, rights to dividends or other distributions or other rights in respect of Common Stock.
     
                
Section 4.04The Securities Intermediary shall use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver any payments required to be made by it to the Purchase Contract Agent hereunder to the account designated by the Purchase Contract Agent for such purpose not later than 12:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day such payment is received by the Securities Intermediary; , that if such payment is received on a day that is not a Business Day or after 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day, then the Securities Intermediary shall use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such payment to the Purchase Contract Agent no later than 10:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the next succeeding Business Day.
.  Payments to Purchase Contract Agent.
provided, however
                
Section 4.05If the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder shall receive any payments on account of financial assets credited to the Collateral Account (other than interest on the Convertible Notes) and not released therefrom in accordance with this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent or such Holder shall hold such payments as trustee of an express trust for the benefit of the Company and, upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate of the Company so directing, promptly deliver such payments to the Securities Intermediary for credit to the Collateral Account or to the Company for application to the Obligations of the applicable Holder or Holders, and the Purchase Contract Agent and Holders shall acquire no right, title or interest in any such payments of principal amounts so received. The Purchase Contract Agent shall have no liability under this Section 4.05 unless and until it has been notified in writing that such payment was delivered to it erroneously and shall have no liability for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken prior to its receipt of such notice.
.  Payments Held in Trust.
                
Section 5.01(a) Each Purchase Contract shall obligate the Holder of the related Unit to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date at a price equal to the Stated Amount (the ""), a number of newly issued shares of Common Stock (subject to Section 5.08) equal to the Settlement Rate unless an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event with respect to the Units of which such Purchase Contract is a part shall have occurred. The "" is equal to the sum of the Daily Settlement Amounts determined over a 20 consecutive Trading Day period ending on and including the third trading day prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (the ""). The " for each Trading Day during the Observation Period is equal to:
.  Purchase of Shares of Common Stock.
Purchase Price
Settlement Rate
Observation Period
Daily Settlement Amount"
in each case rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share.
                
(b) Each Holder of a Corporate Unit or a Treasury Unit, by its acceptance of such Unit:
     
 that upon a Termination Event, the rights of the Holder of such Units under the Purchase Contract may be enforced without regard to any other rights or obligations.
provided
                
(c) Each Holder of a Corporate Unit or a Treasury Unit, by its acceptance thereof, further covenants and agrees that to the extent and in the manner provided in Section 5.02 hereof, but subject to the terms thereof, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, Proceeds of the Pledged Convertible Notes or
     
the Pledged Treasury Securities, as applicable, equal to the Purchase Price shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Purchase Contract and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such Proceeds.
                
(d) Upon registration of transfer of a Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such transferee) by the terms of this Agreement and the Purchase Contracts underlying such Certificate and the transferor shall be released from the obligations under this Agreement and the Purchase Contracts underlying the Certificate so transferred. The Company covenants and agrees, and each Holder of a Certificate, by its acceptance thereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph.
     
                
Section 5.02  
.  Cash Settlement; Remarketing; Notices; Separate Convertible Notes; Registration.
                
(a)      . (i) Unless (A) a Termination Event has occurred, or (B) a Holder effects an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract, each Holder of Corporate Units shall have the right to satisfy in Cash such Holder's Obligations with respect to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. Each Holder of Corporate Units who intends to pay in Cash to satisfy such Holder's Obligations under the Purchase Contract with respect to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date shall notify the Purchase Contract Agent by use of a notice in substantially the form of Exhibit E hereto of his intention to pay in cash (a "") the Purchase Price for the Common Stock to be purchased pursuant to the related Purchase Contract. Such notice shall be given prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date, but no earlier than the Company's notice of a Remarketing as set forth under clause (c)(i) below.
Cash Settlement
Cash Settlement
                
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Purchase Contract Agent may opt to deliver to the Company any funds or property held for two years, in which event the Company shall have sole responsibility for compliance with all applicable escheat laws with respect to all funds or property returned to it pursuant to this sentence.
                
The Company shall instruct the Collateral Agent in writing as to the type of Permitted Investments in which any such Cash shall be invested; , that if the Company fails to deliver such written instructions by 10:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the day such Cash is received by the Collateral Agent or to be reinvested by the Securities Intermediary, the Securities Intermediary shall invest such Cash in the Permitted Investments described in clause (4) of the definition of Permitted Investments, and , that any such Permitted Investments shall mature on or prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. The Collateral Agent may conclusively rely on any written direction and shall bear no liability for any loss or other damage based on acting or omitting to act under this Section 5.02 pursuant to any direction of the Company and in no event shall the Collateral Agent or Securities Intermediary be liable for the selection of Permitted Investments or for investment losses incurred thereon. The Collateral Agent and Securities Intermediary shall have no liability in respect of losses incurred as a result of the failure of the Company to provide timely written investment direction.
provided, however
provided, further, however
                
Upon maturity of the Permitted Investments on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Collateral Agent shall, and is hereby authorized to, (A) instruct the Securities Intermediary to remit to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date such portion of the proceeds of such Permitted Investments as is equal to the aggregate Purchase Price under all Purchase Contracts in respect of which Cash Settlement has been affected as provided in this Section 5.02 to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, and (B) release any amounts in excess of such amount earned from such Permitted Investments to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to the Holders who have effected Cash Settlement pro-rata in proportion to the amount paid by such Holders under Section 5.02(a)(ii) above.
                
(b)      . (i) Unless a Termination Event has occurred prior to the first Remarketing Date, in order to dispose of the Pledged Convertible Notes of any Holders of Corporate Units, who have not notified the Purchase Contract Agent of their intention to effect a Cash Settlement as provided in Section 5.02(a)(i) above, or who have so notified the Purchase Contract Agent but failed to make such payment as required by Section 5.02(a)(ii) above, in each case along
 
Remarketing
with any Separate Convertible Notes, the holders of which have elected to participate in a Remarketing pursuant to clause (c)(ii) below, the Company shall engage the Remarketing Agents pursuant to the Remarketing Agreement to remarket such Convertible Notes on the first Remarketing Date and, unless a Successful Remarketing occurs on such first Remarketing Date, the Company shall engage the Remarketing Agents pursuant to the Remarketing Agreement to remarket such Convertible Notes on the second Remarketing Date. The Purchase Contract Agent, based on the notices specified pursuant to Section 5.02(a)(iv), shall notify the Remarketing Agents in writing, promptly after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Remarketing Date, of the aggregate principal amount of Pledged Convertible Notes that are to be remarketed. Concurrently, the Custodial Agent, based on the notices specified in clause (c)(ii) below, will notify the Remarketing Agents in writing of the aggregate principal amount of Separate Convertible Notes to be remarketed in any Remarketing. Upon receipt of notice from the Purchase Contract Agent as set forth in Section 5.02(b)(i) above and notice of the Separate Convertible Notes (if any) from the Custodial Agent as set forth in Section 5.02(b)(i) above, the Remarketing Agents shall, on the Remarketing Date or Dates, use reasonable efforts to remarket, as provided in the Remarketing Agreement (subject to the execution of a Remarketing Agreement and the satisfaction of the conditions set forth therein), such Convertible Notes and such Separate Convertible Notes at or above the applicable Remarketing Price.
(c) . (i) Not later than 15 days prior to the first Remarketing Date, the Company shall issue a press release and request the Depositary or its nominee to notify the Beneficial Owners or Depositary Participants holding Units and Separate Convertible Notes of the Remarketing Dates and the procedures to be followed in the Remarketing including the procedures to be followed by holders of Separate Convertible Notes
                
   
     
Notices, Separate Convertible Notes; Registration
to participate in the Remarketing, the applicable procedures for Holders of Corporate Units to create Treasury Units or Holders of Treasury Units to recreate Corporate Units, the applicable procedures for Holders of Corporate Units to effect an Early Settlement and, the applicable procedures to effect a Cash Settlement and the applicable procedures that must be followed by a holder of Separate Convertible Notes if such holder wishes to exercise its Put Right or by a Holder if such Holder elects not to exercise its Put Right.
(d) In the case of a Treasury Unit, upon the maturity of the Pledged Treasury Securities held by the Securities Intermediary on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the principal amount of the Treasury Securities received by the Securities Intermediary shall be invested in Permitted Investments consistent with the instructions of the Company as provided in Section 5.02(a) with respect to Cash Settlement. On the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, an amount equal to the Purchase Price for all related Purchase Contracts shall be remitted to the Company as payment of such Holder's Obligations under such Purchase Contracts without receiving any instructions from the Holder. In the event the sum of the Proceeds from the related Pledged Treasury Securities and the Proceeds from such Permitted Investments is in excess of the aggregate Purchase Price, the Collateral Agent shall cause the Securities Intermediary to distribute such excess, when received by the Securities Intermediary, to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the Holder of the related Treasury Units.
                
 
  
     
(e) The obligations of the Holders to pay the Purchase Price are non-recourse obligations and, except to the extent satisfied by Early Settlement, Cash Merger Early Settlement or Cash Settlement or terminated upon a Termination Event, are payable solely out of the proceeds of any Collateral pledged to secure the obligations of the Holders, and in no event will Holders be liable for any deficiency between the proceeds of the disposition of Collateral and the Purchase Price.
                
 
  
     
(f) The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in respect of a Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates thereof to the Holder of the related Units unless the Company shall have received, subject to Section 5.02(e), payment for the Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner herein set forth.
                
 
  
     
                
Section 5.03Unless a Termination Event, an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement shall have occurred, subject to Section 5.04(b), on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date upon receipt of the aggregate Purchase Price payable on all Outstanding Units in accordance with Section 5.02, the Company shall issue and deposit with the Purchase Contract Agent, for the benefit of the Holders of the Outstanding Units, one or more certificates representing newly issued shares of Common Stock registered in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent (or its nominee) as custodian for the Holders (such certificates for shares of Common Stock, together with any dividends or distributions for which a record date and payment date for such dividend or distribution has occurred after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, being hereinafter referred to as the "") to which the Holders are entitled hereunder; , that, in case such Common Stock is to be delivered through the facilities of DTC or another Depositary, the Company shall cause its stock transfer agent to deliver beneficial interests in such
.  Issuance of Shares of Common Stock.
Purchase Contract Settlement Fund
provided
Common Stock on behalf of the Purchase Contract Agent through such facilities to the Holders entitled thereto.
                
Subject to the foregoing, upon presentation and surrender of a Certificate, if in certificated form, to the Purchase Contract Agent on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger Early Settlement Date, as the case may be, together with settlement instructions thereon duly completed and executed, the Holder of such Certificate shall be entitled to receive forthwith in exchange therefor a certificate representing that number of newly issued whole shares of Common Stock which such Holder is entitled to receive pursuant to the provisions of this Article 5 (after taking into account all Units then held by such Holder), together with cash in lieu of fractional shares as provided in Section 5.08 and any dividends or distributions with respect to such shares constituting part of the Purchase Contract Settlement Fund, but without any interest thereon, and the Certificate so surrendered shall forthwith be cancelled. Such shares shall be registered in the name of the Holder or the Holder's designee as specified in the settlement instructions set forth on the reverse of the Certificate provided by the Holder to the Purchase Contract Agent. If any shares of Common Stock issued in respect of a Purchase Contract are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the Person in whose name the Certificate evidencing such Purchase Contract is registered (but excluding any Depositary or nominee thereof), no such registration shall be made unless and until the Person requesting such registration has paid any transfer and other taxes (including any applicable stamp taxes) required by reason of such registration in a name other than that of the registered Holder of the Certificate evidencing such Purchase Contract or has established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax either has been paid or is not payable.
                
Section 5.04  
.  Adjustment of the Maximum Daily Amount.
(a) Adjustments for Dividends, Distributions, Stock Splits, Etc.
               
 
   
                
Any adjustment made pursuant to this paragraph (i) shall become effective as of the open of business on (x) the Ex-Dividend Date or (y) the date on which such split or combination becomes effective, as applicable. If any dividend or distribution described in this paragraph (i) is declared but not so paid or made, the new Maximum Daily Amount shall be readjusted to the Maximum Daily Amount that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
                
For purposes of this paragraph (ii), in determining whether any rights, warrants or options entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock at less than the applicable Closing Price of the Common Stock, and in determining the aggregate exercise or conversion price payable for such Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights, warrants or options and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Company. If any right, warrant or option described in this paragraph (ii) is not exercised or converted prior to the expiration of the exercisability or convertibility thereof, the new Maximum Daily Amount shall be readjusted to the Maximum Daily Amount that would then be in effect if such right, warrant or option had not been so issued.
                
An adjustment to the Maximum Daily Amount made pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph shall become effective as of the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date.
                
If the Company distributes to all holders of its Common Stock capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit (""), the Maximum Daily Amount in effect immediately following the 10th Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off shall be increased based on the following formula:
Spin-Off
                
An adjustment to the Maximum Daily Amount made pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph will occur at the close of business on the 10th Trading Day from and including the effective date of the Spin-Off; that in respect of any Purchase Contract Settlement Date that occurs within the 10 Trading Days following the effective date of any Spin-Off, references within this paragraph (iii) to 10 Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the effective date of such Spin-Off and the Purchase Contract Settlement Date in determining the Applicable Maximum Daily Amount.
provided
                
If any such dividend or distribution described in this paragraph (3) is declared but not paid or made, the new Maximum Daily Amount shall be readjusted to be the Maximum Daily Amount that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
                
If the denominator of the foregoing fraction is less than $1.00 (including a negative amount) then in lieu of any adjustment under this Section 5.04(iv), the Company shall make adequate provision so that each Holder of Purchase Contracts shall have the right to receive upon settlement, in addition to the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such settlement, the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder settled such Purchase Contracts on the Ex-Dividend Date.
                
The Initial Dividend Threshold is subject to adjustment in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Maximum Daily Amount, that no adjustment will be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Maximum Daily Amount under this Section 5.04(iv)
provided
                
The Initial Dividend Threshold is subject to adjustment in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Maximum Daily Amount; that no adjustment shall be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Maximum Daily Amount under this Section 5.04(v).
provided
                
An adjustment to the Maximum Daily Amount made pursuant to Sections 5.04(iv) or 5.04(v) shall become effective as of the open of business on the ex-dividend date for such dividend or distribution. If any dividend or distribution described in Section 5.04(iv) or 5.04 (v) is declared but not so paid or made, the new Maximum Daily Amount shall be readjusted to the Maximum Daily Amount that would be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. If the denominator of the foregoing fraction is less than $1.00 (including a negative amount), then in lieu of any adjustment under this Section 5.04(v), the Company shall make adequate provision so that each Holder of Purchase Contracts shall have the right to receive upon settlement, in addition to the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such settlement, the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder settled such Purchase Contracts on the Ex-Dividend Date.
                
If the application of the foregoing formula would result in a decrease in the Maximum Daily Amount, no adjustment to the Maximum Daily Amount shall be made.
                
Any adjustment to the Maximum Daily Amount made pursuant to this Section 5.04(vi) shall become effective on the second day immediately following the date such tender offer or exchange offer expires. If the Company or one of its subsidiaries is obligated to purchase the Common Stock pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer but is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchase or all such purchases are rescinded, the new Maximum Daily Amount shall be readjusted to be the Maximum Daily Amount that would be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made.
                
All required calculations will be made to the nearest cent or 1/1000th of a share, as the case may be.
(b) .
                
 
     
  Adjustment for Recapitalizations, Reclassifications and Changes of Our Common Stock
                
The kind and amount of Reference Property will be determined assuming such holder of one Share of Common Stock is not a Person with which the Company consolidated or into which the Company merged or which merged into the Company or to which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (any such Person, a ""), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person to the extent such Reorganization Event provides for different treatment of Common Stock held by Affiliates of the Company and non-affiliates. If holders of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event, then for the purpose of this Section 5.04(b)(i) the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make an election.
Constituent Person
                
For purposes of determining the applicable Settlement Rate under this Section 5.04(b)(i) and Section 5.04(b)(ii), the term "" shall be deemed to refer to the "Applicable Market Value" of the Reference Property, and such value shall be determined (A) with respect to any publicly traded securities that compose all or part of the Reference Property, based on the Daily VWAP of such securities, (B) in the case of any cash that composes all or part of the Reference Property, based on the amount of such cash and (C) in the case of any other property that composes all or part of the Reference Property, based on the value of such property, as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Company for this purpose; that prior to the separation of the Rights or any similar stockholder rights from the Common Stock, such Rights or similar stockholder rights shall be deemed to have no value. For the purposes of this paragraph only, the term "Trading Day" shall be deemed to refer to any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Reference Property.
Applicable Market Value
provided
                
In the event of such a Reorganization Event, the Person formed by such consolidation, merger or exchange or the Person that acquires the assets of the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent an agreement supplemental hereto providing that each Holder of an Outstanding Unit shall have the rights provided by this Section 5.04(b)(i). Such supplemental agreement shall provide for adjustments which, for events subsequent to the effective date of such supplemental agreement, shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Section 5.04. The above provisions of this Section 5.04 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events.
                Within five Business Days of the completion of a Cash Merger, the Company shall provide written notice to Holders of such completion of a Cash Merger, which shall specify the deadline for submitting the notice to settle early in cash pursuant to this Section 5.04(b)(ii), the date on which such Cash Merger Early Settlement shall occur (which date shall be at least ten days after the date of such written notice by the Company and shall in no event be later than the earlier
of (x) 20 days after the date of such written notice by the Company and (y) two Business Days immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date) (the ""), the consideration receivable (including the manner of determining the amount of such consideration as described below) by the Holder, including the amount of Contract Adjustment Payments receivable, upon settlement.
Cash Merger Early Settlement Date
                
In order to exercise the right to effect Cash Merger Early Settlement with respect to any Purchase Contracts, the Holder of the Certificate evidencing Units shall deliver, no later than 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Cash Merger Early Settlement Date, such Certificate to the Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate Trust Office duly endorsed for transfer to the Company or in blank with the form of Election to Settle Early on the reverse thereof duly completed and accompanied by payment (payable to the Company in immediately available funds) in an amount equal to the result of:
                
Upon receipt of such Certificate and payment of such funds, the Purchase Contract Agent shall pay the Company from such funds the related Purchase Price pursuant to the terms of the related Purchase Contracts, and notify the Collateral Agent that all the conditions necessary for a Cash Merger Early Settlement by a Holder have been satisfied pursuant to which the Purchase Contract Agent has received from such Holder, and paid to the Company as confirmed in writing by the Company, the related Purchase Price.
                
Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of the notice from the Purchase Contract Agent set forth in the immediately preceding paragraph, the Collateral Agent shall release from the Pledge, (1) the Pledged Convertible Notes in the case of a Holder of Corporate Units or (2) the Pledged Treasury Securities, in the case of a Holder of Treasury Units, in each case with a Value (as determined by the Purchase Contract Agent) equal to the product of (x) the Stated Amount and (y) the number of Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has elected to effect Cash Merger Early Settlement, and shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer all such Pledged Convertible Notes or Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, in each case free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.
                
If a Holder properly effects an effective Cash Merger Early Settlement in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.04(c)(ii), the Company will deliver (or will cause the Collateral Agent to deliver) to the Holder on the Cash Merger Early Settlement Date:
                
The Corporate Units or the Treasury Units of the Holders who do not elect Cash Merger Early Settlement in accordance with the foregoing will continue to remain outstanding and be subject to settlement on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date in accordance with the terms hereof.
                
(d)     All calculations and determinations pursuant to this Article 5 shall be made by the Company or its agent and the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall have no responsibility with respect to this Agreement.
     
                
Section 5.05(a) Whenever the Maximum Daily Amount is adjusted as herein provided, the Company shall within 10 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that requires an adjustment to each Maximum Daily Amount pursuant to Section 5.04 (or if the Company is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as practicable after becoming so aware)
.  Notice of Adjustments and Certain Other Events.
(b)    The Purchase Contract Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of each Maximum Daily Amount, or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed in making the same. The Purchase Contract Agent shall be fully authorized and protected in relying on any Officer's Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 5.05(a)(i) and any adjustment contained therein and the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment unless and until it has received such certificate. The Purchase Contract Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, which may at the time be issued or delivered with respect to any Purchase Contract; and the Purchase Contract Agent makes no representation with respect thereto. The Purchase Contract Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to a Purchase Contract or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Article 5.
                 
 
     
                
Section 5.06
. Termination Event; Notice.
 
                
The Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract Adjustment Payments (including any accrued and unpaid Contract Adjustment Payments), and the rights and obligations of Holders to purchase Common Stock, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without the necessity of any notice or action by any Holder, the Purchase Contract Agent or the Company, if, prior to or on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Termination Event shall have occurred.
                
Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Units shall thereafter represent the right to receive the Convertible Notes or the Treasury Securities, as the case may be, forming part of such Units, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.15 hereof. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register.
                
Section 5.07(a) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 5.07, at the option of the Holder thereof, Purchase Contracts underlying Units may be settled early ("") at any time prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately
.  Early Settlement.
Early Settlement
preceding the first scheduled Trading Day of the Observation Period; that no Early Settlement will be permitted pursuant to this Section 5.07 unless, at the time such Early Settlement is effected, there is an effective Registration Statement with respect to any securities to be issued and delivered in connection with such Early Settlement, if such a Registration Statement is required (in the view of counsel, which need not be in the form of a written opinion, for the Company) under the Securities Act. If such a Registration Statement is so required, the Company covenants and agrees to use its commercially reasonable best efforts to (i) have in effect a Registration Statement covering any securities to be delivered in respect of the Purchase Contracts being settled and (ii) provide a Prospectus in connection therewith, in each case in a form that may be used in connection with such Early Settlement (it being understood that if there is a material business transaction or development that has not yet been publicly disclosed, the Company will not be required to provide such a Prospectus, and the right to effect Early Settlement will not be available, until the Company has publicly disclosed such transaction or development, that the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to make such disclosure as soon as it is commercially reasonable to do so).
provided
provided
(b)    In order to exercise the right to effect Early Settlement with respect to any Purchase Contracts, the Holder of the Certificate evidencing Units (in the case of Certificates in definitive certificated form) shall deliver, at any time prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first scheduled Trading Day of the Observation Period, such Certificate to the Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate Trust Office duly endorsed for transfer to the Company or in blank with the form of Election to Settle Early on the reverse thereof duly completed and accompanied by payment (payable to the Company in immediately available funds) in an amount (the "") equal to the sum of:
                 
 
     
Early Settlement Amount
                
In the case of Book-Entry Interests, each Beneficial Owner electing Early Settlement must deliver the Early Settlement Amount to the Purchase Contract Agent along with a facsimile of the Election to Settle Early form duly completed, make book-entry transfer of such Book-Entry Interests and comply with the
applicable procedures of the Depositary by the applicable time set forth above in this Section 5.07.
                
Except as provided in Section 5.10(d), no payment shall be made upon Early Settlement of any Purchase Contract on account of any Contract Adjustment Payments accrued on such Purchase Contract or on account of any dividends on the Common Stock issued upon such Early Settlement. If the foregoing requirements are first satisfied with respect to Purchase Contracts underlying any Units at or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day, such day shall be the "" with respect to such Units and if such requirements are first satisfied after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day or on a day that is not a Business Day, the Early Settlement Date with respect to such Units shall be the next succeeding Business Day.
Early Settlement Date
                
Upon the receipt of such Certificate, Election to Settle Early form duly completed and Early Settlement Amount from the Holder, the Purchase Contract Agent shall pay to the Company such Early Settlement Amount, the receipt of which payment the Company shall confirm in writing. The Purchase Contract Agent shall then notify the Collateral Agent that (A) such Holder has elected to effect an Early Settlement, which notice shall set forth the number of such Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement, (B) the Purchase Contract Agent has received from such Holder, and paid to the Company as confirmed in writing by the Company, the related Early Settlement Amount and (C) all conditions to such Early Settlement expressly set forth in this Agreement have been satisfied.
                
Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of the notice from the Purchase Contract Agent set forth in the preceding paragraph, the Collateral Agent shall release from the Pledge, (1) in the case of a Holder of Corporate Units, the Pledged Convertible Notes relating to the Purchase Contracts to which Early Settlement is effected, or (2) in the case of a Holder of Treasury Units, Pledged Treasury Securities, in each case with a Value (as determined by the Purchase Contract Agent) equal to the product of (x) the Stated Amount times (y) the number of Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement, and shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer all such Pledged Convertible Notes or Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, in each case free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.
                
Upon Early Settlement of the Purchase Contracts, the rights of the Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract Adjustment Payments (including any accrued and unpaid Contract Adjustment Payments) with respect to such Purchase Contracts shall immediately and automatically terminate, except as provided in Section 5.10(d).
(c)    Upon Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Units, the Company shall issue, and the Holder shall be entitled to receive, a number of shares of Common Stock (or in the case of an Early Settlement following a Reorganization Event, a number of units of Reference Property) equal to the product of 0.85 and the Settlement Rate calculated as set forth in Section 5.01(a) for each Purchase Contract as to which Early Settlement is effected; provided that for purposes of this Section 5.07, the Settlement Rate shall be equal to the sum of the Daily Settlement Amounts determined over a 20 consecutive Trading Day period beginning on, and including, the Trading Day immediately following the Early Settlement Date (the "").
                
 
     
Early Settlement Observation Period
(d)    No later than the third Business Day after the last Trading Day of the Early Settlement Observation Period, the Company shall cause the shares of Common Stock issuable upon Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts to be issued and delivered, together with payment in lieu of any fraction of a share, as provided in Section 5.08.
                
 
     
(e)    Upon Early Settlement of any Purchase Contracts, and subject to receipt of shares of Common Stock from the Company and the Convertible Notes, or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, from the Securities Intermediary, as applicable, the Purchase Contract Agent shall, in accordance with the instructions provided by the Holder thereof on the applicable form of Election to Settle Early on the reverse of the Certificate evidencing the related Units:
                
 
     
(f) In the event that Early Settlement is effected with respect to Purchase Contracts underlying less than all the Units evidenced by a Certificate, upon such Early Settlement the Company shall execute and the Purchase Contract Agent shall execute on behalf of the Holder, authenticate and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a Certificate evidencing the Units as to which Early Settlement was not effected.
                
    
     
                
Section 5.08No fractional shares or scrip representing fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued or delivered upon settlement on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of any Purchase Contracts. If Certificates evidencing more than one Purchase Contract shall be surrendered for settlement at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock which shall be delivered upon settlement shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of Purchase Contracts evidenced by the Certificates so surrendered. Instead of any fractional share of Common Stock which would otherwise be deliverable upon settlement of any Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, the Company, through the Purchase Contract Agent, shall make a cash payment in respect of such fractional interest in an amount equal to the percentage of such fractional share multiplied by the Applicable Market Value calculated on the last Trading Day of the Observation Period, Early Settlement Observation Period or Cash Merger Observation Period, as the case may be. The Company shall provide the Purchase Contract Agent from time to time with sufficient funds to permit the Purchase Contract Agent to make all cash payments required by this Section 5.08 in a timely manner.
.  No Fractional Shares.
                
Section 5.09The Company will pay all stock transfer and similar taxes attributable to the initial issuance and delivery of the shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Purchase Contracts; , that the Company shall not be required to pay any such tax or taxes which may be payable in respect of any exchange of or substitution for a Certificate evidencing a Unit or any issuance of a share of Common Stock in a name other than that of the registered Holder of a Certificate surrendered in respect of the Units evidenced thereby, other than in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent, as custodian for such Holder, and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver such share certificates or Certificates unless or until the Person or Persons requesting the transfer or issuance thereof shall have paid to the Company the amount of such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid.
.  Charges and Taxes.
provided, however
                
Section 5.10(a) Subject to Section 5.10(d) and Section 5.10(e) through (q), the Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, the Contract Adjustment Payments payable in respect of each Purchase Contract for the period from and including the immediately preceding Payment Date on which Contract Adjustment Payments were paid (or if none, March 20, 2007) to but excluding such Payment Date to the Person in whose name a Certificate is registered at the close of business on the Record Date relating to such Payment Date. Contract Adjustment Payments on Global Certificates will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Depositary. If the book-entry system for the Units has been terminated, the Contract Adjustment Payments will be payable at the office of the Purchase Contract Agent in the
.  Contract Adjustment Payments.
Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, New York maintained for that purpose or, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register as of the Record Date, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such Person by a prior written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, given at least ten calendar days prior to the Payment Date. If any Payment Date is not a Business Day, then payment of the Contract Adjustment Payments payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day; that if such Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, the payment date for Contract Adjustment Payments or other distributions shall be brought forward to the immediately preceding Business Day; that no interest or other amount shall accrue or be payable by the Company or to any Holder in respect of such delay. Contract Adjustment Payments payable for any period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. The Contract Adjustment Payments will accrue from March 20, 2007.
provided
provided further
(b)    Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company's obligation to pay future Contract Adjustment Payments (including any accrued Contract Adjustment Payments) shall cease.
                
 
     
(c) Each Certificate delivered under this Agreement upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of (including as a result of a Collateral Substitution or the recreation of Corporate Units) any other Certificate shall carry the right to accrued and unpaid Contract Adjustment Payments, which right was carried by the Purchase Contracts underlying such other Certificates.
                
    
     
(d) In the case of any Unit with respect to which Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is effected on a date that is after any Record Date and prior to or on the next succeeding Payment Date, Contract Adjustment Payments otherwise payable on such Payment Date shall be payable on such Payment Date notwithstanding such Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, and such Contract Adjustment Payments shall be paid to the Person in whose name the Certificate evidencing such Unit is registered at the close of business on such Record Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the immediately preceding sentence, and the right to receive accrued and unpaid Contract Adjustment Payments as set forth in Section 5.04(c)(ii), in the case of any Unit with respect to which Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is effected, Contract Adjustment Payments that would otherwise be payable after the most recent Payment Date, in the event of an Early Settlement or the Cash Merger Early Settlement Date, in the event of a Cash Merger Early Settlement, with respect to such Purchase Contract shall not be payable.
                
    
     
(e) The Company's obligations with respect to Contract Adjustment Payments will be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the Company's obligations under any Senior Indebtedness as set forth in this Section 5.10.
                
    
     
(f) In the event (x) of any payment by, or distribution of assets of, the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, to creditors upon any dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary or in bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other proceedings, or (y) subject to the provisions of Section 5.10(h) below, that (A) a default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the payment of principal, interest or any other monetary amounts due and payable on any Senior Indebtedness and such default shall have continued beyond the period of grace, if any, specified in the instrument evidencing such Senior Indebtedness (and the Purchase Contract Agent shall have received written notice thereof from the Company or one or more holders of Senior Indebtedness or their representative or representatives or the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which any such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued), or (B) the maturity of any Senior Indebtedness shall have been accelerated because of a default in respect of such Senior Indebtedness (and the Purchase Contract Agent shall have received written notice thereof from the Company or one or more holders of Senior Indebtedness or their representative or representatives or the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which any such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued), then:
                
    
     
(g)    For purposes of Section 5.10(e) through (q), the words "cash, property or securities" shall not be deemed to include shares of stock of the Company as reorganized or readjusted, or securities of the Company or any other Person provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment, the payment of which is subordinated at least to the extent provided in Section 5.10(e) through (q) with respect to such Contract Adjustment Payments on the Units to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness which may at the time be outstanding; that (i) the Senior Indebtedness is assumed by the Person, if any, resulting from any such reorganization or readjustment, and (ii) the rights of the holders of the Senior Indebtedness are not, without the consent of each such holder adversely affected thereby, altered by such reorganization or readjustment.
                
 
     
provided
(h)    Any failure by the Company to make any payment on or perform any other obligation under Senior Indebtedness, other than any indebtedness incurred by the Company or assumed or guaranteed, directly or indirectly, by the Company for money borrowed (or any deferral, renewal, extension or refunding thereof) or any indebtedness or obligation as to which the provisions of Section 5.10(e) through (q) shall have been waived by the Company in the instrument or instruments by which the Company incurred, assumed, guaranteed or otherwise created such indebtedness or obligation, shall not be deemed a default or event of
                
 
     
default if (i) the Company shall be disputing its obligation to make such payment or perform such obligation and (ii) either (A) no final judgment relating to such dispute shall have been issued against the Company which is in full force and effect and is not subject to further review, including a judgment that has become final by reason of the expiration of the time within which a party may seek further appeal or review, and (B) in the event a judgment that is subject to further review or appeal has been issued, the Company shall in good faith be prosecuting an appeal or other proceeding for review and a stay of execution shall have been obtained pending such appeal or review.
(i)    Subject to the irrevocable payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, the Holders of the Units shall be subrogated (equally and ratably with the holders of all obligations of the Company which by their express terms are subordinated to Senior Indebtedness of the Company to the same extent as payment of the Contract Adjustment Payments in respect of the Purchase Contracts underlying the Units is subordinated and which are entitled to like rights of subrogation) to the rights of the holders of Senior Indebtedness to receive payments or distributions of cash, property or securities of the Company applicable to the Senior Indebtedness until all such Contract Adjustment Payments owing on the Units shall be paid in full, and as between the Company, its creditors other than holders of such Senior Indebtedness and the Holders, no such payment or distribution made to the holders of Senior Indebtedness by virtue of Section 5.10(e) through (q) that otherwise would have been made to the Holders shall be deemed to be a payment by the Company on account of such Senior Indebtedness, it being understood that the provisions of Section 5.10(e) through (q) are and are intended solely for the purpose of defining the relative rights of the Holders, on the one hand, and the holders of Senior Indebtedness, on the other hand.
                
 
     
(j) Nothing contained in Section 5.10(e) through (q) or elsewhere in this Agreement or in the Units is intended to or shall impair, as among the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness and the Holders, the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay to the Holders such Contract Adjustment Payments on the Units as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms, or is intended to or shall affect the relative rights of the Holders and creditors of the Company other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, nor shall anything herein or therein prevent the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under this Agreement, subject to the rights, if any, under Section 5.10(e) through (q), of the holders of Senior Indebtedness in respect of cash, property or securities of the Company received upon the exercise of any such remedy.
                
    
     
(k)    Upon payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in Section 5.10(e) through (q), the Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree made by any court of competent
                
 
     
jurisdiction in which any such dissolution, winding up, liquidation or reorganization proceeding affecting the affairs of the Company is pending or upon a certificate of the trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidating trustee or trustee or other person making any payment or distribution, delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent or to the Holders, for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such payment or distribution, the holders of Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to these Section 5.10(e) through (q).
(l) The Purchase Contract Agent shall be entitled to rely on the delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing himself to be a holder of Senior Indebtedness (or a trustee or representative on behalf of such holder) to establish that such notice has been given by a holder of Senior Indebtedness or a trustee or representative on behalf of any such holder or holders. In the event that the Purchase Contract Agent determines in good faith that further evidence is required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of Senior Indebtedness to participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to Section 5.10(e) through (q), the Purchase Contract Agent may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Purchase Contract Agent as to the amount of Senior Indebtedness held by such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under Section 5.10(e) through (q), and, if such evidence is not furnished, the Purchase Contract Agent may defer payment to such Person pending judicial determination as to the right of such Person to receive such payment.
                
    
     
(m)    Nothing contained in Section 5.10(e) through (q) shall affect the obligations of the Company to make, or prevent the Company from making, payment of the Contract Adjustment Payments, except as otherwise provided in these Section 5.10(e) through (q).
                
 
     
(n) Each Holder, by its acceptance thereof, authorizes and directs the Purchase Contract Agent on its behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination provided in Section 5.10(e) through (q) and appoints the Purchase Contract Agent as its attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes.
                
    
     
(o)    The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent of any fact known to the Company that would prohibit the making of any payment of moneys to or by the Purchase Contract Agent in respect of the Units pursuant to the provisions of this Section. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.10(e) through (q) or any other provisions of this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be charged with knowledge of the existence of
                
 
     
any facts that would prohibit the making of any payment of moneys to or by the Purchase Contract Agent, or the taking of any other action by the Purchase Contract Agent, unless and until the Purchase Contract Agent shall have received written notice thereof mailed or delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent at its Corporate Trust Office from the Company, any Holder, or the holder or representative of any Senior Indebtedness; that if at least two Business Days prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any such moneys may become payable for any purpose, the Purchase Contract Agent shall not have received with respect to such moneys the notice provided for in this Section, then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Purchase Contract Agent shall have full power and authority to receive such moneys and to apply the same to the purpose for which they were received and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary that may be received by it within two Business Days prior to or on or after such date.
provided
(p)    The Purchase Contract Agent in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the rights set forth in this Section 5.10 with respect to any Senior Indebtedness at the time held by it, to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Indebtedness and nothing in this Agreement shall deprive the Purchase Contract Agent of any of its rights as such holder.
                
 
     
(q) No right of any present or future holder of any Senior Indebtedness to enforce the subordination herein shall at any time or in any way be prejudiced or impaired by any act or failure to act on the part of the Company or by any noncompliance by the Company with the terms, provisions and covenants of this Agreement, regardless of any knowledge thereof which any such holder may have or be otherwise charged with.
                
    
     
(r) Nothing in this Section 5.10 shall apply to claims of, or payments to, the Purchase Contract Agent under or pursuant to Section 7.07.
                
    
      
(s) With respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness, (i) the duties and obligations of the Purchase Contract Agent shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Agreement; (ii) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable to any such holders if it shall, acting in good faith, mistakenly pay over or distribute to the Holders or to the Company or any other Person cash, property or securities to which any holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by virtue of this Section 5.10 or otherwise; (iii) no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Agreement against the Purchase Contract Agent; and (iv) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be deemed to be a fiduciary as to holders of such Senior Indebtedness.
                
         
                
Section 6.01Each Holder of a Unit shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, (a) subject to Article 5, to receive each Contract Adjustment Payment with respect to the Purchase Contract comprising part of such Unit on the respective Payment Date for such Unit pursuant to the terms hereof and (b) except upon and following a Termination Event, to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to such Purchase Contract and, in each such case, to institute suit for the enforcement of any such right to receive Contract Adjustment Payments and the right to purchase shares of Common Stock, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
.  Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Contract Adjustment Payments and to Purchase Shares of Common Stock.
                
Section 6.02If any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Agreement and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company and such Holder shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of such Holder shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
.  Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
                
Section 6.03Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificates in the last paragraph of Section 3.10, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
.  Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
                
Section 6.04No delay or omission of any Holder to exercise any right upon a default or remedy upon a default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such right. Every right and remedy given by this Article 6 or by law to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by such Holders.
.  Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
                
Section 6.05All parties to this Agreement agree, and each Holder of a Unit, by its acceptance of such Unit shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court of competent jurisdiction may in its discretion require, in
.  Undertaking for Costs.
any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Agreement, or in any suit against the Purchase Contract Agent for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Purchase Contract Agent, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Purchase Contract Agent, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% of the Outstanding Units, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the obligation to pay interest on any Convertible Notes owed pursuant to such Holder's Convertible Notes or Contract Adjustment Payments on or after the respective Payment Date therefor in respect of any Unit held by such Holder, or for enforcement of the right to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Purchase Contracts constituting part of any Unit held by such Holder.
provided
                
Section 6.06The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Agreement; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Purchase Contract Agent or the Holders, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
.  Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
                  
Section 7.01  
.  Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
(a) The Purchase Contract Agent:
                  
         
(b) No provision of this Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Purchase Contract Agent from liability for its own grossly negligent action, its own grossly negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
                
 
        
(c) no provision of this Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement shall require the Purchase Contract Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
                
 
        
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Purchase Contract Agent shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
                
 
        
(e) The Purchase Contract Agent is authorized to execute and deliver the Remarketing Agreement in its capacity as Purchase Contract Agent.
                 
 
        
(f) In case a default by the Company under this Agreement has occurred (that has not been cured or waived), and a Responsible Officer of the Purchase Contract Agent have received written notice thereof, the Purchase Contract Agent shall exercise such of the rights and powers, if any, with respect to such default, vested in it by this Agreement, and use the same degree of care and skill in the exercise thereof, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
                 
 
        
                
Section 7.02Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default by the Company hereunder of which a Responsible Officer of the Purchase Contract Agent has received written notice thereof, the Purchase Contract Agent shall transmit by mail to the Holders, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such default hereunder, unless such default shall have been cured or waived; that, except for a default in any payment obligation hereunder, the Purchase Contract Agent shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as a Responsible Officer of the Purchase Contract Agent in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of Holders of the Units.
.  Notice of Default.
provided
                
Section 7.03  
.  Certain Rights of Purchase Contract Agent.
                
Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01:
(a) the Purchase Contract Agent may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
                
 
        
(b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officer's Certificate, Issuer Order or Issuer Request, and any resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
                
 
        
(c) whenever in the administration of this Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement the Purchase Contract Agent shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder or thereunder, the Purchase Contract Agent (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed in this Agreement) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officer's Certificate of the Company;
                
 
        
(d) the Purchase Contract Agent may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
                 
 
        
(e) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Purchase Contract Agent, in its discretion, may make reasonable further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters related to the execution, delivery and performance of the Purchase Contracts as it may see fit, and, if the Purchase Contract Agent shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be given a reasonable opportunity to examine the relevant books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
                 
 
        
(f) the Purchase Contract Agent may execute any of the powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents, attorneys, custodians or nominees or an Affiliate of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent, attorney, custodian or nominee or an Affiliate appointed with due care by it hereunder;
                 
 
        
(g) the Purchase Contract Agent shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Agreement at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Agreement, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Purchase Contract Agent security or indemnity satisfactory to the Purchase Contract Agent against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
                 
 
        
(h) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Agreement;
                 
 
        
(i) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Purchase Contract Agent, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Purchase Contract Agent in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each officer, director, employee of the Purchase Contract Agent and each agent, custodian and other Person employed, in any capacity whatsoever, by the Purchase Contract Agent to act
                  
 
        
hereunder and shall survive the resignation or removal of the Purchase Contract Agent and the termination of this Agreement;
(j) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be deemed to have notice or be charged with knowledge of any default unless a Responsible Officer of the Purchase Contract Agent has received written notice from the Company or any Holder of such default at the Corporate Trust Office of the Purchase Contract Agent, and such notice references the Units and this Agreement and identifies such default; and
                  
 
        
(k) the Purchase Contract Agent may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Agreement.
                  
 
        
(l) anything in this Agreement notwithstanding, in no event shall the Purchase Contract Agent be liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to loss of profit), even if the Purchase Contract Agent has been advised as to the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action;
                  
 
        
(m) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement arising out of or caused, directly or indirectly, by circumstances beyond its reasonable control, including, without limitation, acts of God; earthquakes; fire; flood; terrorism; wars and other military disturbances; sabotage; epidemics; riots; interruptions; loss or malfunctions of utilities, computer (hardware or software) or communication services; accidents; labor disputes; acts of civil or military authority and governmental action; and
                  
 
        
(n) the permissive right of the Purchase Contract Agent to take or refrain from taking action hereunder shall not be construed as a duty.
                  
 
        
                  
Section 7.04The recitals contained herein, in the Remarketing Agreement and in the Certificates shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Purchase Contract Agent assumes no responsibility for their accuracy or validity. The Purchase Contract Agent makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of either this Agreement or of the Units or the Pledge or the Collateral or the Remarketing Agreement. The Purchase Contract Agent shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of the proceeds in respect of the Purchase Contracts.
.  Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Units.
                  
Section 7.05Any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, or the Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates, in their individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Units and may otherwise deal with the Company, the Collateral Agent or any other Person
.  May Hold Units.
with the same rights it would have if it were not Security Registrar or such other agent, or the Purchase Contract Agent. The Company may become the owner or pledgee of Units.
                  
Section 7.06Money held by the Purchase Contract Agent in custody hereunder need not be segregated from the Purchase Contract Agent's other funds except to the extent required by law. The Purchase Contract Agent shall be under no obligation to invest or pay interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise expressly provided hereunder or agreed in writing with the Company.
.  Money Held in Custody.
                  
Section 7.07
. Compensation and Reimbursement.
 
                  
The Company agrees:
(a) to pay to the Purchase Contract Agent compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder and under the Remarketing Agreement as the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent shall from time to time agree in writing;
                  
 
        
(b) except as otherwise expressly provided for herein, to reimburse the Purchase Contract Agent upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with any provision of this Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct;
                  
 
        
(c) to indemnify the Purchase Contract Agent and any predecessor Purchase Contract Agent (collectively, with the Purchase Contract Agent, the "") for, and to hold each Indemnitee harmless against, any loss, liability or expense (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Purchase Contract Agent) incurred without gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement, including the acceptance or administration of its duties hereunder and the Remarketing Agreement and the Indemnitees' reasonable costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, a Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of the Purchase Contract Agent's powers or duties hereunder or thereunder; and
                  
 
        
Indemnitees
(d) to pay or reimburse the Purchase Contract Agent for transfer, stamp, documentary or other similar taxes, assessments or charges levied by any governmental or revenue authority in respect of this Agreement or any other document referred to herein.
                  
 
        
                
Purchase Contract Agent for purposes of this Section shall include any predecessor Purchase Contract Agent; provided, however, that the negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of any Purchase Contract Agent hereunder shall not affect the rights of any other Purchase Contract Agent hereunder.
                
The provisions of this Section shall survive the resignation and removal of the Purchase Contract Agent and the termination of this Agreement.
                
Section 7.08There shall at all times be a Purchase Contract Agent hereunder which shall be a Person organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having (or being a member of a bank holding company having) a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority and having a corporate trust office in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City, if there be such a Person in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City, qualified and eligible under this Article and willing to act on reasonable terms. If such Person publishes or files reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published or filed. If at any time the Purchase Contract Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
.  Corporate Purchase Contract Agent Required; Eligibility.
                
Section 7.09(a) No resignation or removal of the Purchase Contract Agent and no appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 7.10.
.  Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
(b) The Purchase Contract Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Company 60 days prior to the effective date of such resignation. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Purchase Contract Agent required by Section 7.10 shall not have been delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Purchase Contract Agent may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent.
                
 
        
(c) The Purchase Contract Agent may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of a majority in number of the Outstanding Units delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a
                
 
        
successor Purchase Contract Agent required by Section 7.10 shall not have been delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent within 30 days after such Act, the Purchase Contract Agent being removed may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent.
(d) If at any time:
                 
         
then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Purchase Contract Agent, or (ii) any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Unit for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Purchase Contract Agent and the appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent.
(e) If the Purchase Contract Agent shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Purchase Contract Agent for any cause, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Purchase Contract Agent and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 7.10. If no successor Purchase Contract Agent shall have been so appointed by the Company and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 7.10, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Unit for at least six months, on behalf of itself and all others similarly situated, or the Purchase Contract Agent may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent.
                 
 
        
(f) The Company shall give, or shall cause such successor Purchase Contract Agent to give, notice of each resignation and each removal of the Purchase Contract Agent and each appointment of a successor Purchase Contract
                 
 
        
Agent by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders as their names and addresses appear in the applicable Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Purchase Contract Agent and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
(g) If the Purchase Contract Agent has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the TIA, the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the TIA.
                 
        
 
                
Section 7.10(a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Purchase Contract Agent, every such successor Purchase Contract Agent so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Purchase Contract Agent an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Purchase Contract Agent shall become effective and such successor Purchase Contract Agent, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, agencies and duties of the retiring Purchase Contract Agent; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Purchase Contract Agent, such retiring Purchase Contract Agent shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Purchase Contract Agent all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Purchase Contract Agent and duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Purchase Contract Agent all property and money held by such retiring Purchase Contract Agent hereunder.
.  Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
(b) Upon request of any such successor Purchase Contract Agent, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Purchase Contract Agent all such rights, powers and agencies referred to in clause (a) of this Section 7.10.
                 
 
        
(c) No successor Purchase Contract Agent shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Purchase Contract Agent shall be qualified and eligible under this Article 7.
                 
 
        
                
Section 7.11Any Person into which the Purchase Contract Agent may be merged or converted or with which it maybe consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Purchase Contract Agent shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Purchase Contract Agent, shall be the successor of the Purchase Contract Agent hereunder, that such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Certificates shall have been authenticated and executed on behalf of the Holders, but not delivered,
.  Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
provided
by the Purchase Contract Agent then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such Purchase Contract Agent may adopt such authentication and execution and deliver the Certificates so authenticated and executed with the same effect as if such successor Purchase Contract Agent had itself authenticated and executed such Units.
                
Section 7.12(a) The Purchase Contract Agent shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders received by the Purchase Contract Agent in its capacity as Security Registrar.
.  Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
(b) If three or more Holders (herein referred to as "") apply in writing to the Purchase Contract Agent, and furnish to the Purchase Contract Agent reasonable proof that each such Applicant has owned a Unit for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the Applicants desire to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Agreement or under the Units and is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such Applicants propose to transmit, then the Purchase Contract Agent shall mail to all the Holders copies of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Purchase Contract Agent of the materials to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of such mailing.
                
 
        
Applicants
                
Section 7.13Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent assumes no obligations and shall not be subject to any liability under this Agreement, the Remarketing Agreement or any Purchase Contract in respect of the obligations of the Holder of any Unit thereunder. The Company agrees, and each Holder of a Certificate, by its acceptance thereof, shall be deemed to have agreed, that the Purchase Contract Agent's execution of the Certificates on behalf of the Holders shall be solely as agent and attorney-in-fact for the Holders, and that the Purchase Contract Agent shall have no obligation to perform such Purchase Contracts on behalf of the Holders, except to the extent expressly provided in Article 5 hereof.
.  No Obligations of Purchase Contract Agent.
                
Section 7.14(a) The Company, will comply with all applicable certification, information reporting and withholding (including "backup" withholding) requirements imposed by applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative practice with respect to (i) any payments made with respect to the Units or (ii) the issuance, delivery, holding, transfer, redemption or exercise of rights under the Units. Such compliance shall include, without limitation, the preparation and timely filing of required returns and the timely payment of all amounts required to be withheld to the appropriate taxing authority or its designated agent.
.  Tax Compliance.
(b) The Purchase Contract Agent shall comply in accordance with the terms hereof with any reasonable written direction received from the Company with respect to the execution or certification of any required documentation and the application of such requirements to particular payments or Holders or in other particular circumstances, and may for purposes of this Agreement conclusively rely on any such direction in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.01(a) hereof.
                
 
        
(c) The Purchase Contract Agent shall maintain all appropriate records documenting compliance with such requirements, and shall make such records available, on written request, to the Company or its authorized representative within a reasonable period of time after receipt of such request.
                 
 
        
               
Section 8.01Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more agreements supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary to:
.  Supplemental Agreements without Consent of Holders.
(a) evidence the succession of another Person to the Company, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Certificates;
                
 
        
(b) evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Purchase Contract Agent, Collateral Agent, Securities Intermediary or Custodial Agent;
                
 
        
(c) add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders, or surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
                
 
        
(d) make provision with respect to the rights of Holders pursuant to the requirements of Section 5.04(b); or
                
 
        
(e) except as provided for in Section 5.04, cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provisions herein that may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under this Agreement that do not adversely affect the interests of any Holders, that any amendment made solely to conform the provisions of this Agreement to the description of the Units and the Purchase Contracts
                
 
        
provided
contained in the Units Prospectus will not be deemed to adversely affect the interests of the Holders.
                
Section 8.02With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the Outstanding Purchase Contracts voting together as one class, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent and the Purchase Contract Agent may enter into an agreement or agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of modifying in any manner the terms of the Purchase Contracts, or the provisions of this Agreement or the rights of the Holders in respect of the Units. However, that, except as contemplated herein, no supplemental agreement shall, without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Purchase Contract affected thereby,
.  Supplemental Agreements with Consent of Holders.
(a) change any Payment Date;
                
         
(b) change the amount or the type of Collateral required to be Pledged to secure a Holder's obligations under the Purchase Contract (except for the rights of holders of Corporate Units to substitute Treasury Securities for the Pledged Convertible Notes or the rights of Holders of Treasury Units to substitute Convertible Notes for the Pledged Treasury Securities, impair the right of the Holder of any Purchase Contract to receive distributions on the related Collateral or otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights in or to such Collateral;
                
 
        
(c) impair the Holders' right to institute suit for the enforcement of any Purchase Contract or any Contract Adjustment Payments;
                
 
        
(d) except as set forth in Section 5.04, reduce the number of shares of Common Stock or the amount of any other property to be purchased pursuant to any Purchase Contract, increase the price to purchase shares of Common Stock or any other property upon settlement of any Purchase Contract or change the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or the right to Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement or otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights under the Purchase Contract in any material respect;
                
 
        
(e) reduce any Contract Adjustment Payments or change any place where, or the coin or currency in which, any Contract Adjustment Payment is payable; or
                
 
        
(f) reduce the percentage of the outstanding Purchase Contracts whose Holder's consent is required for any modification or amendment to the provisions of this Agreement or the Purchase Contracts;
                
 
        
 that if any amendment or proposal referred to above would adversely affect only the Corporate Units or the Treasury Units, then only the affected class of Holders as of the record date for the Holders entitled to vote thereon will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal, and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the consent of each such Holder affected thereby; and , that the unanimous consent of the Holders of each outstanding Purchase Contract of such class affected thereby shall be required to approve any amendment or proposal specified in clauses (a) through (f) of this Section 8.02.
provided
provided, further
                
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental agreement, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
                
Section 8.03In executing, or accepting the additional agencies created by any supplemental agreement permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the agencies created by this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Custodial Agent shall be provided, and (subject to Section 7.01 with respect to the Purchase Contract Agent) shall be fully authorized and protected in relying upon, an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental agreement is authorized or permitted by this Agreement and that any and all conditions precedent to the execution and delivery of such supplemental agreement have been satisfied. The Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Custodial Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental agreement which affects their own rights, duties or immunities under this Agreement or otherwise.
.  Execution of Supplemental Agreements.
                
Section 8.04Upon the execution of any supplemental agreement under this Article, this Agreement shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental agreement shall form a part of this Agreement for all purposes; and every Holder of Certificates theretofore or thereafter authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder, shall be bound thereby.
.  Effect of Supplemental Agreements.
                
Section 8.05Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered after the execution of any supplemental agreement pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Purchase Contract Agent, bear a notation in form approved by the Purchase Contract Agent as to any matter provided for in such supplemental agreement. If the Company shall so determine, new Certificates so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company, to any such supplemental agreement may be prepared and executed by the Company and
.  Reference to Supplemental Agreements.
authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Purchase Contract Agent in exchange for outstanding Certificates.
                
Section 9.01The Company covenants that it will not merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell, convey, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, unless:
.  Covenant Not To Consolidate, Merge, Sell, Convey, Transfer or Dispose Property except under Certain Conditions.
(a) either the Company shall be the surviving Person, or the successor (if other than the Company) shall not be a Person, other than an individual organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof or the District of Columbia and such corporation or limited liability company, as the case may be, shall expressly assume all the obligations of the Company under the Purchase Contracts, this Agreement (including the Pledge provided for herein), the Indenture (including any supplement thereto) and the Remarketing Agreement by one or more supplemental agreements in form reasonably satisfactory to the Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent, executed and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent by such Person; and
               
 
        
(b) the Company or such successor Person shall not, immediately after such merger, consolidation, sale, conveyance, transfer or other disposition, be in default of payment obligations under the Purchase Contracts, this Agreement, the Indenture (including any supplement thereto) or the Remarketing Agreement or in material default in the performance of any other covenants under any of the foregoing agreements.
               
 
        
                
Section 9.02In case of any such merger, consolidation, sale, conveyance (other than by way of lease), transfer or other disposition and upon any such assumption by a successor Person in accordance with Section 9.01, such surviving Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company with the same effect as if it had been named herein as the Company and the Company shall be relieved of any further obligation hereunder and under the Corporate Units or Treasury Units. Such surviving Person thereupon may cause to be signed, and may issue either in its own name or in the name of The Stanley Works any or all of the Certificates evidencing Units issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent; and, upon the order of such surviving Person, instead of the Company, and subject to all the terms, conditions and limitations in this Agreement prescribed, the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate and execute on behalf of the Holders and deliver any Certificates
.  Rights and Duties of Successor Corporation.
which previously shall have been signed and delivered by the officers of the Company to the Purchase Contract Agent for authentication and execution, and any Certificate evidencing Units which such surviving Person thereafter shall cause to be signed and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent for that purpose. All the Certificates issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Agreement as the Certificates theretofore or thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Agreement as though all of such Certificates had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
                
In case of any such merger, consolidation, sale, assignment, transfer, or disposition such change in phraseology and form (but not in substance) may be made in the Certificates evidencing Units thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate.
                
Section 9.03The Purchase Contract Agent, subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.03, shall receive an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such merger, consolidation, sale, assignment, transfer, or disposition, and any such assumption, complies with the provisions of this Article and that all conditions precedent to the consummation of any such merger, consolidation, sale, conveyance, transfer or other disposition have been met.
.  Opinion of Counsel Given to Purchase Contract Agent.
                
Section 10.01The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Units that it will duly and punctually perform its obligations under the Purchase Contracts in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contracts and this Agreement.
.  Performance under Purchase Contracts.
                
Section 10.02The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, New York an office or agency where Certificates may be presented or surrendered for acquisition of shares of Common Stock upon settlement of the Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement and for transfer of Collateral upon occurrence of a Termination Event, where Certificates may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, or for a Collateral Substitution and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Units and this Agreement may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. The Company initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Purchase Contract Agent as such office of the Company. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any
.  Maintenance of Office or Agency.
such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Purchase Contract Agent with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office, and the Company hereby appoints the Purchase Contract Agent as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
                
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where Certificates may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, New York for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. The Company hereby designates as the place of payment for the Units the Corporate Trust Office and appoints the Purchase Contract Agent at its Corporate Trust Office as paying agent in such city.
provided, however
                
Section 10.03The Company shall at all times prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock the full number of shares of Common Stock issuable against tender of payment in respect of all Purchase Contracts constituting a part of the Units evidenced by Outstanding Certificates.
.  Company to Reserve Common Stock.
               
Section 10.04(a) The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock which may be issued against tender of payment in respect of any Purchase Contract constituting a part of the Outstanding Units will, upon issuance, be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. The Company shall comply, in all material respects, with all applicable securities laws regulating the offer, issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock upon settlement of Purchase Contracts and will issue such shares of Common Stock as freely-tradable shares, except to the extent holders thereof are underwriters (within the meaning of the Securities Act) or Affiliates of the Company.
.  Covenants as to Common Stock; Listing.
(b) The Company further covenants that, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on the NYSE or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Company will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all Common Stock issuable upon Settlement of Purchase Contracts; , that, if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Company to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the date on which any Purchase Contract is first settled in accordance with the
               
 
        
provided, however
provisions of this Agreement, the Company covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon settlement of the Purchase Contracts in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system no later than at such time.
                
Section 10.05Each Holder from time to time of the Units that is a Plan or who used assets of a Plan to purchase Units hereby represents that either (a) no portion of the assets used by such Holder to acquire the Corporate Units constitutes assets of the Plan or (b) the purchase or holding of the Corporate Units by such purchaser or transferee will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4973 of the Code or similar violation under any applicable laws.
.  ERISA.
                
Section 10.06The Company covenants and agrees, for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes, to (a) treat a Holder's acquisition of the Corporate Units as the acquisition of the Convertible Notes and Purchase Contract constituting the Corporate Units and (b) treat each Holder as the owner of the Collateral, including the Convertible Notes or the Treasury Securities.
.  Tax Treatment.
                
Section 11.01Each Holder, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as such Holder's attorney-in-fact, and the Purchase Contract Agent, acting solely as such attorney-in-fact, hereby pledges and grants to the Collateral Agent, as agent of and for the benefit of the Company, a continuing first priority security interest in and to, and a lien upon and right of set-off against, all of such Person's right, title and interest in and to the Collateral to secure the prompt and complete payment and performance when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the Obligations. The Collateral Agent shall have all of the rights, remedies and recourses with respect to the Collateral afforded a secured party by the UCC, in addition to, and not in limitation of, the other rights, remedies and recourses afforded to the Collateral Agent by this Agreement.
.  Pledge.
                
Section 11.02As to each Holder, the Pledge created hereby shall terminate upon the satisfaction of such Holder's Obligations. Upon a Termination Event (and subject to the Collateral Agent's notification thereof by the Purchase Contract Agent), the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer such portion of the Collateral attributable to such Holder to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.
.  Termination.
                
Section 12.01(a) Prior to or concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent, on behalf of the initial Holders of the Corporate Units, shall Transfer without recourse or representation to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Collateral Account, the Convertible Notes or security entitlements relating thereto and the Securities Intermediary shall indicate by book-entry that a securities entitlement with respect to such Convertible Notes has been credited to the Collateral Account.
.  Initial Deposit of Convertible Notes.
(b) The Collateral Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, at any time or from time to time, in its sole discretion, cause any or all securities or other property underlying any financial assets credited to the Collateral Account to be registered in the name of the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral Agent or their respective nominees; , that unless any Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) shall have occurred and be continuing, the Collateral Agent agrees not to cause any Convertible Notes to be so re-registered.
               
 
        
provided, however
                
Section 12.02The Securities Intermediary hereby confirms that:
.  Establishment of Collateral Account.
(a) the Securities Intermediary has established the Collateral Account;
               
 
        
(b) the Collateral Account is a securities account;
               
 
        
(c) subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Securities Intermediary shall identify in its records the Collateral Agent as the entitlement holder entitled to exercise the rights that comprise any financial asset credited to the Collateral Account;
               
 
        
(d) all property delivered to the Securities Intermediary pursuant to this Agreement, including Treasury Securities and the Permitted Investments, will be credited promptly to the Collateral Account; and
               
        
 
(e) all securities or other property underlying any financial assets credited to the Collateral Account shall be (i) registered in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent and indorsed, without recourse or representation, to the Securities Intermediary or in blank, (ii) registered in the name of the Securities Intermediary or (iii) credited to another securities account maintained in the name of the Securities Intermediary. In no case will any financial asset credited to the Collateral Account be registered in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent (in its capacity as such) or any Holder or specially indorsed to the Purchase Contract
               
 
        
Agent (in its capacity as such) or any Holder, unless such financial asset has been further indorsed to the Securities Intermediary or in blank.
                
Section 12.03Each item of property (whether investment property, financial asset, security, instrument or cash) credited to the Collateral Account shall be treated as a financial asset.
.  Treatment as Financial Assets.
                
Section 12.04Except as provided in Section 15.01, at all times prior to the termination of the Pledge, the Collateral Agent shall have sole control of the Collateral Account, and the Securities Intermediary shall take instructions and directions, and comply with entitlement orders, with respect to the Collateral Account or any financial asset credited thereto solely from the Collateral Agent as set forth in this Agreement. If at any time the Securities Intermediary shall receive an entitlement order issued by the Collateral Agent and relating to the Collateral Account, the Securities Intermediary shall comply with such entitlement order without further consent by the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder or any other Person. Except as otherwise permitted under this Agreement, until termination of the Pledge, the Securities Intermediary will not comply with any entitlement orders issued by the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder.
.  Sole Control by Collateral Agent.
                
Section 12.05The Collateral Account, and the rights and obligations of the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral Agent, the Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders with respect thereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York. Regardless of any provision in any other agreement, for the purposes of the UCC the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction is the State of New York.
.  Jurisdiction.
                
Section 12.06Except for the claims and interest of the Collateral Agent and of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders in the Collateral Account, the Securities Intermediary (without having conducted any investigation) does not know of any claim to, or interest in, the Collateral Account or in any financial asset credited thereto. If any Person asserts any lien, encumbrance or adverse claim (including any writ, garnishment, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process) against the Collateral Account or in any financial asset carried therein, the Securities Intermediary will promptly notify the Collateral Agent and the Purchase Contract Agent.
.  No Other Claims.
                
Section 12.07All proceeds of financial assets from time to time credited to the Collateral Account shall be invested and reinvested as provided in this Agreement. At all times prior to termination of the Pledge, no property shall be released from the Collateral Account except in accordance with this Agreement or upon written instructions of the Collateral Agent.
.  Investment and Release.
                
Section 12.08The Securities Intermediary will promptly send copies of all statements, confirmations and other correspondence concerning the Collateral Account and any financial assets credited thereto simultaneously to each of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent at their addresses for notices under this Agreement.
.  Statements and Confirmations.
                
Section 12.09The Purchase Contract Agent shall report all items of income, gain, expense and loss recognized in the Collateral Account, to the extent such reporting is required by law, to the Internal Revenue Service authorities in the manner required by law. Neither the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral Agent nor the Custodial Agent shall have any tax reporting duties hereunder.
.  Tax Allocations.
                
Section 12.10The Securities Intermediary, acting solely in its capacity as Securities Intermediary, has not entered into, and prior to the termination of the Pledge will not enter into, any agreement with any other Person relating to the Collateral Account or any financial assets credited thereto, including, without limitation, any agreement to comply with entitlement orders of any Person other than the Collateral Agent.
.  No Other Agreements.
                
Section 12.11The rights and powers granted in this Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement to the Collateral Agent have been granted in order to perfect its security interests in the Collateral Account, are powers coupled with an interest and will be affected neither by the bankruptcy of the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder nor by the lapse of time. The obligations of the Securities Intermediary under this Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement shall continue in effect until the termination of the Pledge.
.  Powers Coupled with an Interest.
                
Section 12.12The Securities Intermediary waives any security interest, lien or right to make deductions or set-offs that it may now have or hereafter acquire in or with respect to the Collateral Account, any financial asset credited thereto or any security entitlement in respect thereof. Neither the financial assets credited to the Collateral Account nor the security entitlements in respect thereof will be subject to deduction, set-off, banker's lien, or any other right in favor of any person other than the Company.
.  Waiver of Lien Waiver of Set-off.
                
Section 13.01(a) In addition to the rights and remedies set forth herein or otherwise available at law or in equity, after a collateral event of default (as specified in Section 13.01(b) below) hereunder, the Collateral Agent shall have all of the rights and remedies with respect to the Collateral of a secured party under the UCC (whether or not the
.  Rights and Remedies of the Collateral Agent.
UCC is in effect in the jurisdiction where the rights and remedies are asserted) and the TRADES Regulations and such additional rights and remedies to which a secured party is entitled under the laws in effect in any jurisdiction where any rights and remedies hereunder may be asserted. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such remedies may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, (1) retention of the Pledged Convertible Notes or the Pledged Treasury Securities in full satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under the Purchase Contracts and this Agreement or (2) sale of the Pledged Convertible Notes or the Pledged Treasury Securities in one or more public or private sales.
(b) Without limiting any rights or powers otherwise granted by this Agreement to the Collateral Agent, in the event the Collateral Agent is unable to make payments to the Company on account of Proceeds of (i) the Pledged Convertible Notes (other than any interest payments thereon) or (ii) the Pledged Treasury Securities as provided in this Agreement in satisfaction of the Obligations of the Holder of the Units of which such applicable Pledged Convertible Notes or such Pledged Treasury Securities are a part under the related Purchase Contracts, the inability to make such payments shall constitute a "" hereunder and the Collateral Agent shall have and may exercise, with reference to such Pledged Convertible Notes or Pledged Treasury Securities, as applicable, any and all of the rights and remedies available to a secured party under the UCC and the TRADES Regulations after default by a debtor, and as otherwise granted herein or under any other law.
                
 
collateral event of default
(c) Without limiting any rights or powers otherwise granted by this Agreement to the Collateral Agent, the Collateral Agent is hereby irrevocably authorized to receive, collect and apply to the satisfaction of the Obligations all payments with respect to (i) the Pledged Convertible Notes (other than any interest payments thereon) and (ii) the Pledged Treasury Securities, subject, in each case, to the provisions of this Agreement, and as otherwise provided herein.
                
 
(d) Subject to Section 7.04, the Purchase Contract Agent and each Holder agrees that, from time to time, upon the written request of the Collateral Agent, the Purchase Contract Agent, on behalf of such Holder, shall execute and deliver such further documents and do such other acts and things as the Company may reasonably request in order to maintain the Pledge, and the perfection and priority thereof, and to confirm the rights of the Collateral Agent hereunder. The Purchase Contract Agent shall have no liability to any Holder for the maintenance of the Pledge or the perfection or priority hereof or for executing any documents or taking any such acts requested by the Collateral Agent hereunder, except for liability for its own grossly negligent acts, its own grossly negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct.
                
 
                 
Section 14.01Each Holder from time to time, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as attorney-in-fact (it being understood that the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any representation or warranty made by or on behalf of a Holder), hereby represents and warrants to the Collateral Agent (with respect to such Holder's interest in the Collateral), which representations and warranties shall be deemed repeated on each day a Holder effects a Transfer of Collateral, that:
.  Representations and Warranties.
(a) such Holder has the power to grant a security interest in and lien on the Collateral;
                
 
(b) such Holder is the sole beneficial owner of the Collateral and, in the case of Collateral delivered in physical form, is the sole holder of such Collateral and is the sole beneficial owner of, or has the right to Transfer, the Collateral it Transfers to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account, free and clear of any security interest, lien, encumbrance, call, liability to pay money or other restriction other than the security interest and lien granted under Article 11;
                
 
(c) upon the Transfer of the Collateral to the Securities Intermediary for credit to the Collateral Account, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, will have a valid and perfected first priority security interest therein (assuming that any central clearing operation or any securities intermediary or other entity not within the control of the Holder involved in the Transfer of the Collateral, including the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary, gives the notices and takes the action required of it hereunder and under applicable law for perfection of that interest and assuming the establishment and exercise of control pursuant to Article 12 hereof); and
                
 
(d) the execution and performance by the Holder of its obligations under this Agreement will not result in the creation of any security interest, lien or other encumbrance on the Collateral (other than the security interest and lien granted under Article 11 hereof) or violate any provision of any existing law or regulation applicable to it or of any mortgage, charge, pledge, indenture, contract or undertaking to which it is a party or which is binding on it or any of its assets.
                
 
                
Section 14.02The Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders from time to time, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as their attorney-in-fact (it being understood that the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any covenant made by or on behalf of a Holder), hereby covenant to the Collateral Agent that for so long as the Collateral remains subject to the Pledge:
.  Covenants.
(a) neither the Purchase Contract Agent nor such Holders will create or purport to create or allow to subsist any mortgage, charge, lien, pledge or any other security interest whatsoever over the Collateral or any part of it other than pursuant to this Agreement; and
                
 
(b) neither the Purchase Contract Agent nor such Holders will sell or otherwise dispose (or attempt to dispose) of the Collateral or any part of it except for the beneficial interest therein, subject to the Pledge hereunder, transferred in connection with a Transfer of the Units.
                
 
                 
It is hereby agreed as follows:
                 
Section 15.01The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall act as agent for the Company hereunder with such powers as are specifically vested in the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, by the terms of this Agreement. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary shall:
.  Appointment, Powers and Immunities.
(a) have no duties or responsibilities except those expressly set forth in this Agreement and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, liabilities or obligations shall be inferred from this Agreement against the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, nor shall the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary be bound by the provisions of any agreement by any party hereto beyond the specific terms hereof and none of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall have any fiduciary duty to the Holders or any other Person;
                
 
(b) not be responsible for any recitals contained in this Agreement, or in any certificate or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by it under, this Agreement or the Units, or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement (other than as against the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be), the Units, any Collateral or any other document referred to or provided for herein or therein or for any failure by the Company or any other Person (except the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be) to perform any of its obligations hereunder or thereunder or, for the perfection, priority or maintenance of any security interest created hereunder;
                
 
(c) not be required to initiate or conduct any litigation or collection proceedings hereunder (except pursuant to directions furnished under Section 15.02 hereof, subject to Section 15.08 hereof);
                
 
(d) not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it hereunder or under any other document or instrument referred to or provided for herein or in connection herewith or therewith, except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction; and
                
 
(e) not be required to advise any party as to selling or retaining, or taking or refraining from taking any action with respect to, any securities or other property deposited hereunder.
                
 
                
Subject to the foregoing, during the term of this Agreement, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall take all reasonable action in connection with the safekeeping and preservation of the Collateral hereunder as determined by industry standards.
                
The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall only be responsible for transferring money, securities or other property in accordance with the terms herein to the extent that such money, securities or other property is credited to the Collateral Account.
                
No provision of this Agreement shall require the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or the exercise of any of its rights or powers hereunder. In no event shall the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary be liable for any amount in excess of the Value of the Collateral.
                
Section 15.02The Company shall have the right, by one or more written instruments executed and delivered to the Collateral Agent, to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for the realization of any right or remedy available to the Collateral Agent, or of exercising any power conferred on the Collateral Agent, or to direct the taking or refraining from taking of any action authorized by this Agreement; , that (a) such direction shall not conflict with the provisions of any law or of this Agreement or involve the Collateral Agent in personal liability and (b) the Collateral Agent shall be indemnified to its satisfaction as provided herein. Nothing contained in this Section 15.02 shall impair the right of the Collateral Agent in its discretion to take any action or omit to take any action which it deems proper and which is not inconsistent with such direction. None of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary has any obligation or
.  Instructions of the Company.
provided, however
responsibility to file UCC financing or continuation statements or to take any other actions to create, preserve or maintain the security interest in the Collateral.
                
Section 15.03Each of the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent and the Collateral Agent shall be entitled to rely conclusively upon any certification, order, judgment, opinion, notice or other written communication (including, without limitation, any thereof by e-mail or similar electronic means, telecopy, telex or facsimile) believed by it in good faith to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by or on behalf of the proper Person or Persons (without being required to determine the correctness of any fact stated therein) and consult with and conclusively rely upon advice, opinions and statements of legal counsel and other experts selected by the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder in accordance with instructions given by the Company in accordance with this Agreement.
.  Reliance by Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary.
                
In each case that the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary may or is required hereunder to take any action, including without limitation to make any determination or judgment, to give consents, to exercise rights, powers or remedies, to release or sell Collateral or otherwise to act hereunder, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary may seek direction from the Company. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in accordance with the direction from the Company. Unless direction or otherwise is expressly provided herein, if the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall request direction from the Company with respect to any action, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled to refrain from such action unless and until such agent shall have received direction from the Company, and the agent shall not incur liability to any Person by reason of so refraining.
                
Section 15.04(a) Whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Agreement the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering any action to be taken hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a certificate signed by one of the Company's officers, and delivered to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary and such certificate, in the absence
.  Certain Rights.
of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, shall be full warrant to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Agreement upon the faith thereof.
(b) The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, entitlement order, approval or other paper or document.
                
 
 
                
Section 15.05Any Person into which the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be the successor of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, provided such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article hereunder without the execution or filing of any paper with any party hereto or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto except where an instrument of transfer or assignment is required by law to effect such succession, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding.
.  Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
                 
Section 15.06The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary and their affiliates may (without having to account therefor to the Company) accept deposits from, lend money to, make their investments in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust or other business with the Purchase Contract Agent, any other Person interested herein and any Holder (and any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates) as if it were not acting as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and their affiliates may accept fees and other consideration from the Purchase Contract Agent and any Holder without having to account for the same to the Company; that each of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary covenants and agrees with the Company that it shall not accept, receive or permit there to be created in favor of itself and shall take no affirmative action to permit there to be created in favor of any other Person, any security interest, lien or other encumbrance of any kind in or upon the Collateral other than the lien created by the Pledge.
.  Rights in Other Capacities.
provided
 
                
Section 15.07None of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and
.  Non-reliance on the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary.
the Securities Intermediary shall be required to keep itself informed as to the performance or observance by the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder of this Agreement, the Units or any other document referred to or provided for herein or therein or to inspect the properties or books of the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder. None of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall have any duty or responsibility to provide the Company with any credit or other information concerning the affairs, financial condition or business of the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder (or any of their respective affiliates) that may come into the possession of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective affiliates.
                
Section 15.08The Company agrees to:
.  Compensation and Indemnity.
(a) pay the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, for all services rendered by them hereunder;
                
 
(b) indemnify and hold harmless the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and each of their respective directors, officers, agents and employees (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all claims, liabilities, losses, and reasonable expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) (collectively, "" and individually, a "") that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against, the Pledge Indemnitees or any of them for following any instructions, acting upon any notices or other directions (which shall include an instruction, notice or direction not to act) upon which any of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary is entitled to rely pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, that the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary has not acted with negligence or engaged in willful misconduct or bad faith with respect to the specific Loss against which indemnification is sought; and
                
 
Pledge Indemnitees
Losses
Loss
provided
(c) in addition to and not in limitation of paragraph (b) of this Section 15.08, indemnify and hold the Pledge Indemnitees and each of them harmless from and against any and all Losses that may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against, the Pledge Indemnitees or any of them in connection with or arising out of the Collateral Agent's, the Custodial Agent's or the Securities Intermediary's acceptance or performance of its rights, powers and duties under this Agreement, including but not limited to the rights and powers set forth in Section 15.09, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary has not acted with negligence or engaged in willful misconduct or bad faith with respect to the specific Loss against which indemnification is sought.
                
 
provided
                
The provisions of this Section and Section 15.14 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary and the termination of this Agreement.
                
Section 15.09In the event that, in the good faith belief of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, an ambiguity in the provisions of this Agreement arises or any actual dispute between or conflicting claims by or among the parties hereto or any other Person with respect to any funds or property deposited hereunder has been asserted in writing, then at its sole option, each of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled, after prompt notice to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent, to refuse to comply with any and all claims, demands or instructions with respect to such property or funds so long as such dispute or conflict shall continue, and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall not be or become liable in any way to any of the parties hereto for its failure or refusal to comply with such conflicting claims, demands or instructions. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled to refuse to act until either:
.  Failure to Act.
(a) such conflicting or adverse claims or demands shall have been finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or settled by agreement between the conflicting parties as evidenced in a writing satisfactory to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary; or
                
 
(b) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall have received security or an indemnity satisfactory to it sufficient to hold it harmless from and against any and all loss, liability or reasonable out-of-pocket expense which it may without gross negligence, willful misconduct, or bad faith incur by reason of its acting.
                
 
                
The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may in addition elect to commence an interpleader action or seek other judicial relief or orders as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary may deem necessary. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, none of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be required to take any action that is in its opinion contrary to law or to the terms of this Agreement, or which would in its opinion subject it or any of its officers, employees or directors to liability.
                
Section 15.10(a) Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary as provided below:
.  Resignation of Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary.
                 
The Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly notify the Company upon the transmission of notice as contemplated by clause (iii) of this Section 15.10(a) and any removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary pursuant to clause (iii) of this Section 15.10. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Company shall have the right to appoint a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be. If no successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall have been so appointed and shall have accepted such appointment within 45 days after the retiring Collateral Agent's, Custodial Agent's or Securities Intermediary's giving of notice of resignation or the Company's or the Purchase Contract Agent's giving notice of such removal, then the retiring or removed Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary may petition any court of competent jurisdiction, at the expense of the Company, for the appointment of a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall each be a bank or a national banking association which has an office (or an agency office) in New York City with a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary hereunder by a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, such successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, and the retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall take all appropriate action, subject to payment of any amounts then due and payable to it hereunder, to transfer any money and property held by it hereunder (including the Collateral) to such successor. The retiring Collateral Agent,
Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall, upon such succession, be discharged from its duties and obligations as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary hereunder. After any retiring Collateral Agent's, Custodial Agent's or Securities Intermediary's resignation hereunder as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, the provisions of this Article 15 shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary. Any resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary hereunder, at a time when such Person is also acting as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement as the simultaneous resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary or the Custodial Agent, as the case may be.
                
Section 15.11The Collateral Agent shall have the right to appoint agents or advisors in connection with any of its duties hereunder, and the Collateral Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by, or in reliance upon the advice of, such agents or advisors selected in good faith. The appointment of agents pursuant to this Section 15.11 shall be subject to prior written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
.  Right to Appoint Agent or Advisor.
                
Section 15.12The provisions of this Article 15 shall survive termination of this Agreement and the resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary.
.  Survival.
                
Section 15.13Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in no event shall the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary or their officers, directors, employees or agents be liable under this Agreement for indirect, special, punitive, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever, including, but not limited to, lost profits, whether or not the likelihood of such loss or damage was known to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, or any of them and regardless of the form of action, incurred without any act or deed that is found to be attributable to gross negligence or willful misconduct on the parts of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary.
.  Exculpation.
                
Section 15.14The Company agrees to reimburse the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary for:
.  Expenses, Etc.
(a) all out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary), in connection with (i) the negotiation,
                
 
preparation, execution and delivery or performance of this Agreement and (ii) any modification, supplement or waiver of any of the terms of this Agreement;
                
(b)
all costs and expenses of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) in connection with (i) any enforcement or proceedings resulting or incurred in connection with causing any Holder to satisfy its obligations under the Purchase Contracts forming a part of the Units and (ii) the enforcement of this Section 15.14 and Section 15.08;
(c) all transfer, stamp, documentary or other similar taxes, assessments or charges levied by any governmental or revenue authority in respect of this Agreement or any other document referred to herein and all costs, expenses, taxes, assessments and other charges incurred in connection with any filing, registration, recording or perfection of any security interest contemplated hereby; and
                
 
(d) all reasonable fees and expenses of any agent or advisor appointed by the Collateral Agent and consented to by the Company under Section 15.11 of this Agreement.
                
 
                
Section 16.01(a) This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the TIA that are required or deemed to be a part of this Agreement and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions; and
.  Trust Indenture Act; Application.
(b) if and to the extent that any provision of this Agreement limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Section 310 to 317, inclusive, of the TIA, such imposed duties shall control.
                
 
                
Section 16.02(a) The Company shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Purchase Contract Agent (i) semiannually, not later than December 1 and June 1 in each year, commencing June 1, 2007, a list, in such form as the Purchase Contract Agent may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Units as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the delivery thereof, and (ii) at such other times as the Purchase Contract Agent may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished, excluding from any such list names and addresses previously received by the Purchase Contract Agent.
.  Company to Furnish Purchase Contract Agent Names and Addresses of Holders.
(b) The Purchase Contract Agent shall comply with its obligations under Section 311(a) of the TIA, subject to the provisions of Section 311(b) and Section 312(b) of the TIA.
                
 
                
Section 16.03The Purchase Contract Agent shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Purchase Contract Agent as provided in Section 16.02 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Purchase Contract Agent. The Purchase Contract Agent may dispose of any list furnished to it as provided in Section 16.02 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
.  Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
                
The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Agreement or under the Units, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Purchase Contract Agent, shall be as provided by the TIA.
                
Every Holder of Units, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent that neither the Company nor the Purchase Contract Agent nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the TIA.
                
Section 16.04The Purchase Contract Agent shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Purchase Contract Agent and its actions under this Agreement as may be required pursuant to the TIA at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. If required by Section 313(a) of the TIA, the Purchase Contract Agent shall, within sixty days after each December 15 following the date of this Agreement, deliver to Holders a brief report, dated as of such December 15, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a).
.  Reports by Purchase Contract Agent.
                
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Purchase Contract Agent with each stock exchange upon which any Units are listed, with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with the Company. The Company will promptly notify the Purchase Contract Agent when any Units are listed on any stock exchange.
                
Section 16.05The Company shall provide to the Purchase Contract Agent such documents, reports information as required by Section 314(a) (if any) and the compliance certificate required by Section 314(a) of the TIA in the form, in the manner and at the times required by Section 314(a) of the TIA; that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Purchase Contract Agent within
.  Reports by Company.
provided
15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
                
Delivery of such information, documents and reports to the Purchase Contract Agent is for informational purposes only and the Purchase Contract Agent's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Purchase Contract Agent is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
                
Section 16.06The Company shall provide to the Purchase Contract Agent such evidence of compliance with any conditions precedent provided for in this Agreement as and to the extent required by Section 314(c) of the TIA. Any certificate or opinion required to be given by an officer pursuant to Section 314(c)(1) of the TIA may be given in the form of an Officer's Certificate. Any opinion required to be given pursuant to Section 314(c)(2) of the TIA may be given in the form of an Opinion of Counsel.
.  Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent.
                
Section 16.07The Holders of a majority of the Outstanding Purchase Contracts voting together as one class may, by vote or consent, on behalf of all of the Holders, waive any past default by the Company and its consequences, except a default:
.  Defaults, Waiver.
(a) In the payment on any Purchase Contract, or
                
 
(b) In respect of a provision hereof which under Section 8.02 cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Purchase Contract affected.
                
 
                
Upon such waiver, any such default shall cease to exist, and any default by the Company arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
                
Section 16.08The Purchase Contract Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any default unless a Responsible Officer shall have obtained written notice of such default.
.  Purchase Contract Agent's Knowledge of Defaults.
                
Section 16.09Sections 315(d)(3) and 316(a)(1)(A) of the TIA are hereby expressly excluded from this Agreement, as permitted by the TIA.
.  Direction of Purchase Contract Agent.
                
Section 17.01All rights of the Collateral Agent and security interests hereunder, and all obligations of the Holders from time to time hereunder pursuant to the Pledge, shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of:
.  Security Interest Absolute.
(a) any lack of validity or enforceability of any provision of the Purchase Contracts or the Units or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto;
                
 
(b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or any other term of, or any increase in the amount of, all or any of the obligations of Holders of the Units under the related Purchase Contracts, or any other amendment or waiver of any term of, or any consent to any departure from any requirement of, this Agreement or any Purchase Contract or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; or
                
 
(c) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or discharge of, a borrower, a guarantor or a pledgor.
                
 
                
Section 17.02Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall deliver written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary.
.  Notice of Termination Event.
                
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
EXHIBIT A
                
[For inclusion in Global Certificates only - THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AND PLEDGE AGREEMENT HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE ""), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AND PLEDGE AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
DEPOSITARY
                
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
                
This Corporate Units Certificate certifies that                          is the registered Holder of the number of Corporate Units set forth above [For inclusion in Global Certificates only - or such other number of Corporate Units reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Global Certificate attached hereto]. Each Corporate Unit consists of (i) a Convertible Note, subject to the Pledge thereof by
such Holder pursuant to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and (ii) the rights and obligations of the Holder under one Purchase Contract with the Company.
                
All capitalized terms used herein without definition herein and which are defined in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement (as defined on the reverse hereof) have the meaning set forth therein.
                
Pursuant to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, a Convertible Note constituting part of each Corporate Unit evidenced hereby has been pledged to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, to secure the obligations of the Holder under the Purchase Contract comprising part of such Corporate Unit.
                
All payments of the principal amount with respect to the Pledged Convertible Notes or payments of interest on the Pledged Convertible Notes constituting part of the Corporate Units shall be paid on the dates and in the manner set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. Interest on the Convertible Notes forming part of the Corporate Units evidenced hereby, which is payable on each Payment Date, shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Purchase Contract Agent, be paid to the Person in whose name this Corporate Units Certificate (or a Predecessor Corporate Units Certificate) is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date.
                
The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, in respect of each Purchase Contract forming part of a Corporate Unit evidenced hereby, an amount (the "") equal to 5.125% per year of the Stated Amount for the period from and including the immediately preceding Payment Date on which Contract Adjustment Payments were paid (or if none, March 20, 2007) to but excluding such Payment Date. Such Contract Adjustment Payments shall be payable to the Person in whose name this Corporate Units Certificate is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date.
Contract Adjustment Payments
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, at a Purchase Price equal to the Stated Amount, a number of newly issued shares of Common Stock of the Company, equal to the Settlement Rate, unless on or prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date there shall have occurred a Termination Event, an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement with respect to such Purchase Contract, all as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. The Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, if not paid earlier, shall be paid on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date by application of payment received in the Remarketing of the Pledged Convertible Notes equal to the principal amount thereof pledged to secure the obligations
under such Purchase Contract of the Holder of the Corporate Units of which such Purchase Contract is a part.
                
The Contract Adjustment Payments will be payable at the office of the Purchase Contract Agent in New York City, except that all payments with respect to Global Certificates will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Depositary. If the book-entry system for the Corporate Units has been terminated, the Contract Adjustment Payments will be payable, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such Person by prior written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, given at least ten calendar days prior to the Payment Date.
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the holder to agree, for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes, to (i) treat its acquisition of the Corporate Units as an acquisition of the Convertible Note and Purchase Contract constituting each Corporate Unit, (ii) treat the Convertible Notes as indebtedness of the Company and (iii) treat itself as the owner of the applicable interests in the Collateral Account, including the Convertible Notes.
                
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
                
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, this Corporate Units Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
                
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Holder specified above have caused this instrument to be duly executed.
                
This is one of the Corporate Units Certificates referred to in the within mentioned Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby is governed by a Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent (including its successors thereunder, the ""), and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary (including its successors thereunder, the ""), to which Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and supplemental agreements thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Company, and the Holders and of the terms upon which the Corporate Units Certificates are, and are to be, executed and delivered.
Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement
Purchase Contract Agent
Collateral Agent
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date at a price equal to the Stated Amount, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Rate, unless an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event with respect to the Units of which such Purchase Contract is a part shall have occurred. The Settlement Rate is subject to adjustment as described in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon settlement of Purchase Contracts, as provided in Section 5.08 of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby that is settled through Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement shall obligate the Holder of the related Corporate Units to purchase at the Purchase Price, and the Company to sell, a number of newly issued shares of Common Stock equal to Early Settlement Rate (in the case of an Early Settlement) or applicable Settlement Rate (in the case of a Cash Merger Early Settlement).
                
In accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, unless a Termination Event shall have occurred, the Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby by effecting a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement or, if applicable, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or from the proceeds of a Remarketing of the Pledged Convertible Notes. A Holder of Corporate Units who, (1) does not, on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the
first Remarketing Date, make an effective Cash Settlement in the manner provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement or (2) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first scheduled Trading Day of the Observation Period does not make an effective Early Settlement, shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be delivered under the related Purchase Contract from the proceeds of the sale of the Pledged Convertible Notes held by the Collateral Agent in the Remarketing unless the Holder has previously made a Cash Merger Early Settlement.
                
As provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Failed Remarketing, as of the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, each Holder of any Pledged Convertible Notes, unless such Holder has elected settlement with separate cash and delivered such separate cash in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(iii) of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, shall be deemed to have exercised such Holder's Put Right with respect to the Convertible Notes and to have elected to apply the Proceeds of the Put Right equal to the aggregate Purchase Price against such Holder's obligation to pay the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under the related Purchase Contracts in full satisfaction of such Holders' obligations under such Purchase Contracts.
                
The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in respect of a Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates therefor to the Holder unless it shall have received payment of the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holder thereunder shall terminate if a Termination Event shall occur. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall give written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent and to the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall release the Pledged Convertible Notes forming a part of each Corporate Unit from the Pledge. A Corporate Unit shall thereafter represent the right to receive the Convertible Note in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
Under the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent will be entitled to exercise the voting and any other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Convertible Notes, but only to the extent instructed in writing by the Holders. Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which holders of Convertible Notes are entitled to vote or upon any solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of holders of Convertible Notes, the Purchase Contract Agent shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail, first class, postage
pre-paid, to the Holders of Corporate Units the notice required by the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
The Corporate Units Certificates are issuable only in registered form and only in denominations of a single Corporate Unit and any integral multiple thereof. The transfer of any Corporate Units Certificate will be registered and Corporate Units Certificates may be exchanged as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. A Holder who elects to substitute a Treasury Security for the Convertible Note thereby creating Treasury Units, shall be responsible for any fees or expenses payable in connection therewith. Except as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, such Corporate Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the Holder of such Corporate Unit in respect of the Convertible Note and Purchase Contract constituting such Corporate Unit may be transferred and exchanged only as a Corporate Unit.
                
Subject to, and in compliance with, the conditions and terms set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, the Holder of Corporate Units may effect a Collateral Substitution. From and after such Collateral Substitution, each Unit for which Pledged Treasury Securities secure the Holder's obligation under the Purchase Contract shall be referred to as a "".
Treasury Unit
                
Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, at the option of the Holder thereof, Purchase Contracts underlying Units may be settled early by effecting an Early Settlement as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
Upon Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Units, the Pledged Convertible Notes underlying such Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and the Holder shall be entitled to receive a number of shares of Common Stock on account of each Purchase Contract forming part of a Corporate Unit as to which Early Settlement is effected equal to, the Early Settlement Rate.
                
Upon the occurrence of a Cash Merger, a Holder of Corporate Units may effect Cash Merger Early Settlement of the Purchase Contracts underlying such Corporate Units pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. Upon Cash Merger Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Corporate Units, the Pledged Convertible Notes shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and the Holder shall be entitled to receive a number of shares of Common Stock on account of each Purchase Contract forming part of a Corporate Unit as to which Cash Merger Early Settlement is effected equal to the applicable Settlement Rate.
                
Upon registration of transfer of this Corporate Units Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such transferee, except as may be required by the Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement), under the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and the Purchase Contracts evidenced hereby and the transferor shall be released from the obligations under the Purchase Contracts evidenced by this Corporate Units Certificate. The Company covenants and agrees, and the Holder, by its acceptance hereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph.
                
The Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate, by its acceptance hereof, authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the related Purchase Contracts forming part of the Corporate Units evidenced hereby on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, expressly withholds any consent to the assumption (i.e., affirmance) of the Purchase Contracts by the Company or its trustee in the event that the Company becomes the subject of a case under the Bankruptcy Code, agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof, covenants and agrees to perform its obligations under such Purchase Contracts, consents to the provisions of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, and consents to the Pledge of the Convertible Notes underlying this Corporate Units Certificate pursuant to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. The Holder further covenants and agrees that, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof, any payments with respect the Pledged Convertible Notes (other than interest payments thereon) on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date equal to the aggregate Purchase Price for the related Purchase Contracts shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under the related Purchase Contracts and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such payments.
                
Subject to certain exceptions, the provisions of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement may be amended with the consent of the Holders of a majority of the Purchase Contracts.
                
The Purchase Contracts shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the conflicts of law provisions thereof to the extent a different law would govern as a result.
                
The Purchase Contracts shall not, prior to the settlement thereof, entitle the Holder to any of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock.
                
Prior to due presentment of this Certificate for registration of transfer, the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates and any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent may treat the Person in whose name
this Corporate Units Certificate is registered as the owner of the Corporate Units evidenced hereby for the purpose of receiving payments of interest payable on the Convertible Notes and payments of Contract Adjustment Payments (subject to any applicable record date), performance of the Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not any payments in respect thereof be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and neither the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
                
A copy of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement is available for inspection at the offices of the Purchase Contract Agent during regular business hours.
                
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COM: as tenants in common
UNIF GIFT MN ACT: ___________________ Custodian_______________ (cust)                                        (minor)
Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of
TENANT:              as tenants by the entireties
JT TEN:                 as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
                
The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock deliverable upon settlement on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date of the Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Corporate Units evidenced by this Corporate Units Certificate be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto.
                
The undersigned Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate hereby irrevocably exercises the option to effect [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement with respect to the Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Corporate Units evidenced by this Corporate Units Certificate specified below. The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock or other securities deliverable upon such [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share and any Corporate Units Certificate representing any Corporate Units evidenced hereby as to which [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] of the related Purchase Contracts is not effected, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. Pledged Convertible Notes deliverable upon such [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] will be transferred in accordance with the transfer instructions set forth below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto.
                
Number of Units evidenced hereby as to which [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] of the related Purchase Contracts is being elected:
                
Transfer Instructions for Pledged Convertible Notes transferable upon [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement]:
                
The initial number of Corporate Units evidenced by this Global Certificate is _______ The following increases or decreases in this Global Certificate have been made:
EXHIBIT B
                
[For inclusion in Global Certificate only - THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AND PLEDGE AGREEMENT HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE ""), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AND PLEDGE AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
DEPOSITARY
                
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
                
This Treasury Units Certificate certifies that                      is the registered Holder of the number of Treasury Units set forth above [For inclusion in Global Certificates only - or such other number of Treasury Units reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Global Certificate attached hereto]. Each Treasury Unit consists of (i) a Treasury Security having a principal amount at
maturity equal to $1,000, subject to the Pledge of such Treasury Security by such Holder pursuant to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, and (ii) the rights and obligations of the Holder under one Purchase Contract with the Company.
                
All capitalized terms used herein that are defined in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement (as defined on the reverse hereof) have the meaning set forth therein.
                
Pursuant to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, the Treasury Securities underlying each Treasury Unit evidenced hereby have been pledged to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, to secure the obligations of the Holder under the Purchase Contract comprising part of such Treasury Unit.
                
The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, in respect of each Purchase Contract forming part of a Treasury Unit evidenced hereby, an amount (the "") equal to 5.125% per year of the Stated Amount. Such Contract Adjustment Payments shall be payable to the Person in whose name this Treasury Units Certificate is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date.
Contract Adjustment Payments
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Treasury Units Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, at a Purchase Price equal to the Stated Amount, a number of newly issued shares of Common Stock of the Company, equal to the Settlement Rate, unless prior to or on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date there shall have occurred a Termination Event, an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement with respect to such Purchase Contract, all as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. The Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, if not paid earlier, shall be paid on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date by application of the proceeds from the Treasury Securities at maturity pledged to secure the obligations under such Purchase Contract of the Holder of the Treasury Units of which such Purchase Contract is a part.
                
Contract Adjustment Payments will be payable at the office of the Purchase Contract Agent in New York City, except that Contract Adjustment Payments with respect to Global Certificates will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Depositary. If the book-entry system for the Corporate Units has been terminated, the Contract Adjustment Payments will be payable, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such Person by prior written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, given at least ten calendar days prior to the Payment Date.
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the holder to agree, for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes, to (i) treat its acquisition of the Treasury Units as an acquisition of the Treasury Security and Purchase Contracts constituting the Treasury Units and (ii) treat itself as the owner of the applicable interest in the Treasury Securities.
                
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
                
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, this Treasury Units Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
                
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Holder specified above have caused this instrument to be duly executed.
DATED:____________________
                
This is one of the Treasury Units referred to in the within mentioned Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby is governed by a Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the "") between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent (including its successors thereunder, herein called the ""), and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary (including its successors thereunder, the ""), to which Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and supplemental agreements thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Company and the Holders and of the terms upon which the Treasury Units Certificates are, and are to be, executed and delivered.
Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement
Purchase Contract Agent
Collateral Agent
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Treasury Units Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date at a price equal to the Stated Amount, a number of newly issued shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Rate, unless an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event with respect to the Unit of which such Purchase Contract is a part shall have occurred. The Settlement Rate is subject to adjustment as described in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon settlement of Purchase Contracts, as provided in Section 5.08 of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby that is settled through Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement shall obligate the Holder of the related Treasury Units to purchase at the Purchase Price and the Company to sell, a number of newly issued shares of Common Stock equal to the Early Settlement Rate (in the case of an Early Settlement) or applicable Settlement Rate (in the case of a Cash Merger Early Settlement).
                
In accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, the Holder of this Treasury Unit shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of the Common Stock to be purchased pursuant to each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby either by effecting an Early Settlement or, if applicable, a Cash Merger Early Settlement of each such Purchase Contract or by applying the proceeds of the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Holder's Treasury Unit equal to the Purchase Price for such Purchase Contract to the purchase of the Common Stock.
                
The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in respect of a Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates therefor to the Holder unless it shall have received payment of the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holder thereunder, shall terminate if a Termination Event shall occur. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall give written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall release the Treasury Securities underlying each Treasury Unit from the Pledge. A Treasury Unit shall thereafter represent the right to receive the Treasury Security underlying such Treasury Unit, in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
The Treasury Units Certificates are issuable only in registered form and only in denominations of a single Treasury Unit and any integral multiple thereof. The transfer of any Treasury Units Certificate will be registered and Treasury Units Certificates may be exchanged as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. A Holder who elects to substitute Convertible Notes for Treasury Securities, thereby recreating Corporate Units, shall be responsible for any fees or expenses payable in connection therewith. Except as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, such Treasury Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the Holder of such Treasury Unit in respect of the Treasury Security and the Purchase Contract constituting such Treasury Unit may be transferred and exchanged only as a Treasury Unit.
                
Subject to, and in compliance with, the conditions and terms set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, the Holder of Treasury Units may effect a Collateral Substitution. From and after such substitution, each Unit for which Pledged Convertible Notes secure the Holder's obligation under the Purchase Contract shall be referred to as a "".
Corporate Unit
                
Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, at the option of the Holder thereof, Purchase Contracts underlying Units may be settled early by effecting an Early Settlement as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement
                
Upon Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Units, the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and the Holder shall be entitled to receive a number of shares of Common Stock on
account of each Purchase Contract forming part of a Treasury Unit as to which Early Settlement is effected equal to the Early Settlement Rate.
                
Upon the occurrence of a Cash Merger, a Holder of Treasury Units may effect Cash Merger Early Settlement of the Purchase Contracts underlying such Treasury Units pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. Upon Cash Merger Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Treasury Units, the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Treasury Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and the Holder shall be entitled to receive a number of shares of Common Stock on account of each Purchase Contract forming part of a Treasury Unit as to which Cash Merger Early Settlement is effected equal to the applicable Settlement Rate.
                
Upon registration of transfer of this Treasury Units Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such transferee, except as may be required by the Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement), under the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and the Purchase Contracts evidenced hereby and the transferor shall be released from the obligations under the Purchase Contracts evidenced by this Treasury Units Certificate. The Company covenants and agrees, and the Holder, by its acceptance hereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph.
                
The Holder of this Treasury Units Certificate, by its acceptance hereof, authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the related Purchase Contracts forming part of the Treasury Units evidenced hereby on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, expressly withholds any consent to the assumption (i.e., affirmance) of the Purchase Contracts by the Company or its trustee in the event that the Company becomes the subject of a case under the Bankruptcy Code, agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof, covenants and agrees to perform its obligations under such Purchase Contracts, consents to the provisions of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, and consents to the Pledge of the Treasury Securities underlying this Treasury Units Certificate pursuant to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. The Holder further covenants and agrees, that, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof, payments in respect to the aggregate principal amount at maturity of the Pledged Treasury Securities on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date equal to the aggregate Purchase Price for the related Purchase Contracts shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Purchase Contracts and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such payments.
                
Subject to certain exceptions, the provisions of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement may be amended with the consent of the Holders of a majority of the Purchase Contracts.
                
The Purchase Contracts shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the conflicts of law provisions thereof to the extent a different law would govern as a result.
                
The Purchase Contracts shall not, prior to the settlement thereof, entitle the Holder to any of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock.
                
Prior to due presentment of this Certificate for registration of transfer, the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates and any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent may treat the Person in whose name this Treasury Units Certificate is registered as the owner of the Treasury Units evidenced hereby for the purpose of receiving payments of Contract Adjustment Payments (subject to any applicable record date), performance of the Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not any payments in respect thereof be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and neither the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
                
A copy of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement is available for inspection at the offices of the Purchase Contract Agent during regular business hours.
                
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COM: as tenants in common
UNIF GIFT MN ACT: ___________________ Custodian________________ (cust)                                            (minor)
Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of
TENANT:              as tenants by the entireties
JT TEN:                  as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
the within Treasury Units Certificates and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney                          , to transfer said Treasury Units Certificates on the books of The Stanley Works, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                
The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock deliverable upon settlement on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date of the Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Treasury Units evidenced by this Treasury Units Certificate be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto.
                
The undersigned Holder of this Treasury Units Certificate hereby irrevocably exercises the option to effect [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement with respect to the Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Treasury Units evidenced by this Treasury Units Certificate specified below. The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock or other securities deliverable upon such [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share and any Treasury Units Certificate representing any Treasury Units evidenced hereby as to which [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] of the related Purchase Contracts is not effected, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. Pledged Treasury Securities deliverable upon such [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] will be transferred in accordance with the transfer instructions set forth below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto.
                
Number of Units evidenced hereby as to which [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement] of the related Purchase Contracts is being elected:
REGISTERED HOLDER
                
Transfer Instructions for Pledged Treasury Securities Transferable upon [Early Settlement] [Cash Merger Early Settlement]:
                
The initial number of Treasury Units evidenced by this Global Certificate is 0. The following increases or decreases in this Global Certificate have been made:
EXHIBIT C
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent [Address]
                
The undersigned Holder hereby notifies you that it has delivered to HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Collateral Account, $               Value of [Convertible Notes] [Treasury Securities] in exchange for an equal Value of [Pledged Treasury Securities] [Convertible Notes] held in the Collateral Account, in accordance with the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Agreement are used herein as defined therein), among you, the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary. The undersigned Holder has paid all applicable fees and expenses relating to such exchange. The undersigned Holder hereby instructs you to instruct the Collateral Agent to release to you on behalf of the undersigned Holder the [Pledged Convertible Notes] [Pledged Treasury Securities] related to such [Corporate Units] [Treasury Units].
Agreement
Please print name and address of Registered Holder:
EXHIBIT D
[HOLDER] Attention: Telecopy:
                
Please refer to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement are used herein as defined therein), among the Company, the undersigned, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units and Treasury Units from time to time, and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary.
Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement
                
We hereby notify you that a Termination Event has occurred and that [the Pledged Convertible Notes] [Pledged Treasury Securities] compromising a portion of your ownership interest in                    [Corporate Units] [Treasury Units] have been released and are being held by us for your account pending receipt of transfer instructions with respect to such [Pledged Convertible Notes] [Pledged Treasury Securities] (the "").
Released Securities
                
Pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, we hereby request written transfer instructions with respect to the Released Securities. Upon receipt of your instructions and upon transfer to us of your [Corporate Units] [Treasury Units] effected through book-entry or by delivery to us of your [Corporate Units Certificate] [Treasury Units Certificate], we shall transfer the Released Securities by book-entry transfer or other appropriate procedures, in accordance with your instructions. In the event you fail to effect such transfer or delivery, the Released Securities and any distributions thereon, shall be held in our name, or a nominee in trust for your benefit, until such time as such [Corporate Units] [Treasury Units] are transferred or your [Corporate Units Certificate] [Treasury Units Certificate] is surrendered or satisfactory evidence is that such [Corporate Units Certificate] [Treasury Units Certificate] has been destroyed, lost or stolen, together with any indemnification that we or the Company may require.
provided
EXHIBIT E
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent [Address]
Re:          Corporate Units of The Stanley Works, a Connecticut corporation (the "")
Company
                
The undersigned Holder hereby irrevocably notifies you in accordance with Section 5.02(a) of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement are used herein as defined therein), among the Company and you, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of the Corporate Units, and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, that such Holder has elected to pay to the Securities Intermediary for deposit in the Collateral Account, prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date (in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers' check or wire transfer, in immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary), $                    as the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock issuable to such Holder by the Company with respect                                        to                                        Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. The undersigned Holder hereby instructs you to notify promptly the Collateral Agent of the undersigned Holders' election to make such Cash Settlement with respect to the Purchase Contracts related to such Holder's Corporate Units.
Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement
EXHIBIT F
HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent
Attention:  [                       ] Fax: [                       ]
Re:          Corporate Units of The Stanley Works (the "")
Company
                
Please refer to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities Intermediary and as Custodial Agent, and the undersigned, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.
Agreement
                
We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 3.13 of the Agreement that the holder of securities named below (the "") has elected to substitute $                  Value of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged Convertible Notes relating to                   Corporate Units and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Collateral Account.
Holder
                
We hereby request that you instruct the Securities Intermediary, upon confirmation that such Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account, to release to the undersigned an equal Value of Pledged Convertible Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto related to                   Corporate Units of such Holder in accordance with Section 3.13 of the Agreement.
                
Please print name and address of Holder electing to substitute Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the Pledged Convertible Notes:
EXHIBIT G
HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Securities Intermediary
Attention:  [    ] Fax:  [    ]
Re:          Corporate Units of The Stanley Works (the "")
Company
                
This notice relates to the securities account of HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent of The Stanley Works, as pledgee of The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders" (the "").
Collateral Account
                
Please refer to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities Intermediary and as Custodial Agent, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.
Agreement
                
When you have confirmed that $                Value of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto has been credited to the Collateral Account by or for the benefit of                   , as Holder of Corporate Units (the ""), you are hereby instructed to release from the Collateral Account an equal Value of Pledged Convertible Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto relating to                Corporate Units of the Holder by Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent.
Holder
EXHIBIT H
HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent
Attention:  [    ] Fax:  [    ]
Re:          Treasury Units of The Stanley Works (the "")
Company
                
Please refer to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities Intermediary and as Custodial Agent, and the undersigned, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Treasury Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.
Agreement
                
We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 3.14 of the Agreement that the holder of securities named below (the "") has elected to substitute $                 Value of Convertible Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for $                 Value of Pledged Treasury Securities relating to                Treasury Units and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the holder has Transferred such Convertible Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Collateral Account.
Holder
                
We hereby request that you instruct the Securities Intermediary, upon confirmation that such Convertible Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account, to release to the undersigned $              Value of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto related to                 Treasury Units of such Holder in accordance with Section 3.14 of the Agreement.
                
Please print name and address of Holder electing to substitute Convertible Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto for Pledged Treasury Securities:
EXHIBIT I
HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Securities Intermediary
Attention:  [    ] Fax:  [    ]
Re:          Treasury Units of The Stanley Works (the "")
Company
                
This notice relates to the securities account of HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent of The Stanley Works, as pledgee of The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders" (the "").
Collateral Account
                
Please refer to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), among the Company, you, as Securities Intermediary, Custodial Agent and Collateral Agent, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Treasury Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.
Agreement
                
When you have confirmed that $                  Value of Convertible Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto has been credited to the Collateral Account by or for the benefit of                                 , as Holder of Treasury Units (the ""), you are hereby instructed to release from the Collateral Account $                   Value of Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto by Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent.
Holder
EXHIBIT J
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. as Purchase Contract Agent [Address]
Re:          Corporate Units of The Stanley Works (the "")
Company
                
Please refer to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), by and among you, the Company, and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Agreement are used herein as defined therein.
Agreement
                
In accordance with Section 5.02(a)(iv) of the Agreement, we hereby notify you that as of 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date, we have received (i) $            in immediately available funds paid in an aggregate amount equal to the Purchase Price due to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date with respect to                 Corporate Units and (ii) based on the funds received set forth in clause (i) above, an aggregate principal amount of $                  of Pledged Convertible Notes are to be offered for purchase in the Remarketing on a Remarketing Date.
EXHIBIT K
HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Custodial Agent
Attention:  [    ] Fax:  [    ]
Re:          Convertible Notes, of The Stanley Works (the "")
Company
                
The undersigned Holder hereby notifies you in accordance with Section 5.02(c)(ii) of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as the Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units and Treasury Units from time to time, that the undersigned elects to deliver $                   aggregate principal amount of Separate Convertible Notes for delivery to a Remarketing Agent prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date for remarketing pursuant to Section 5.02(c)(ii) of the Agreement. The undersigned will, upon request of a Remarketing Agent, execute and deliver any additional documents deemed by such Remarketing Agent or by the Company to be necessary or desirable to complete the sale, assignment and transfer of the Separate Convertible Notes tendered hereby. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.
Agreement
                
The undersigned hereby instructs you, upon receipt of the Proceeds of a Successful Remarketing from the Remarketing Agents, to deliver such Proceeds to the undersigned in accordance with the instructions indicated herein under "A. Payment Instructions." The undersigned hereby instructs you, in the event of a Failed Remarketing, upon receipt of the Separate Convertible Notes tendered herewith from the Remarketing Agents, to deliver such Separate Convertible Notes to the person(s) and the address(es) indicated herein under "B. Delivery Instructions."
                
With this notice, the undersigned hereby (i) represents and warrants that the undersigned has full power and authority to tender, sell, assign and transfer the Separate Convertible Notes tendered hereby and that the undersigned is the record owner of any Separate Convertible Notes tendered herewith in physical form or a participant in The Depository Trust Company ("") and the beneficial owner of any Separate Convertible Notes tendered herewith by book-
DTC
entry transfer to your account at DTC, (ii) agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of Section 5.02 of the Agreement and (iii) acknowledges and agrees that after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date, such election shall become an irrevocable election to have such Separate Convertible Notes remarketed in the Remarketing, and that the Separate Convertible Notes tendered herewith will only be returned in the event of a Failed Remarketing.
A.            PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS
                
Proceeds of a Successful Remarketing should be paid by check in the name of the person(s) set forth below and mailed to the address set forth below.
Name(s)
(Please Print)
Address
(Please Print)
(Zip Code)
(Tax Identification or Social Security Number)
B.            DELIVERY INSTRUCTIONS
                
In the event of a Failed Remarketing, Convertible Notes which are in physical form should be delivered to the person(s) set forth below and mailed to the address set forth below.
Name(s)
(Please Print)
Address
(Please Print)
(Zip Code)
(Tax Identification or Social Security Number)
                
In the event of a Failed Remarketing, Convertible Notes which are in book-entry form should be credited to the account at The Depository Trust Company set forth below.
DTC Account Number
Name of Account Party:
EXHIBIT L
HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Custodial Agent
Attention:  [    ] Fax:  [    ]
Re:          Convertible Notes, of The Stanley Works (the "")
Company
                
The undersigned Holder hereby notifies you in accordance with Section 5.02(c)(ii) of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), among the Company and you, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units and Treasury Units from time to time, that the undersigned elects to withdraw the $               aggregate principal amount of Separate Convertible Notes delivered to you for Remarketing pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Agreement. The undersigned hereby instructs you to return such Separate Convertible Notes to the undersigned in accordance with the undersigned's instructions. With this notice, the Undersigned hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of Section 5.02 of the Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.
Agreement
EXHIBIT M
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent [Address]
Re:          Corporate Units of The Stanley Works, a Connecticut corporation (the "")
Company
                
The undersigned Holder hereby irrevocably notifies you in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(iii) of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement are used herein as defined therein), among the Company and you, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of the Corporate Units, and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, that such Holder has elected to pay to the Securities Intermediary for deposit in the Collateral Account, on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers check or wire transfer, in immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary), $                as the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock issuable to such Holder by the Company with respect to                 Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. The undersigned Holder hereby instructs you to notify promptly the Collateral Agent of the undersigned Holders' election to settle the Purchase Contracts related to such Holder's Corporate Units with separate cash.
Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement
EXHIBIT N
HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent
Attention:  [    ] Fax:  [    ]
Re:          Corporate Units of The Stanley Works, a Connecticut corporation (the "")
Company
                
Please refer to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities Intermediary and as Custodial Agent, and the undersigned, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of Corporate Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.
Agreement
                
We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(iii) of the Agreement that the Holder of Corporate Units named below (the "") has elected to settle the                    Purchase Contracts related to its Pledged Convertible Notes with $                 of separate cash prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers check or wire transfer, in immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary) and has delivered to the undersigned a notice to that effect.
Holder
                
We hereby request that you, upon confirmation that the Purchase Price has been paid by the Holder to the Securities Intermediary in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(iii) of the Agreement in lieu of exercise of such Holder's Put Right, give us notice of the receipt of such payment and (A) promptly invest the separate cash received in Permitted Investments consistent with the instructions of the Company as provided in Section 5.02(b)(iii) of the Agreement with respect to Cash Settlement, (B) promptly release from the Pledge the Pledged Convertible Notes related to the Corporate Units as to which such Holder has paid such separate cash; and (C) promptly Transfer all such Convertible Notes to us for distribution to such Holder, in each case free and clear of the Pledge created by the Agreement.
EXHIBIT O
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent [Address]
Re:          Corporate Units of The Stanley Works (the "")
Company
                
Please refer to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), by and among you, the Company, and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Agreement are used herein as defined therein.
Agreement
                
In accordance with Section 5.02(a)(v) of the Agreement, we hereby notify you that as of 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding May 17, 2010 (the ""), (i) we have received from             $               in immediately available funds paid in an aggregate amount equal to the Purchase Price due to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date with respect to                   Corporate Units and (ii) based on the funds received set forth in clause (i) above, an aggregate principal amount of $                  of Pledged Convertible Notes are to be released from the Pledge and Transferred to you.
Purchase Contract Settlement Date
EXHIBIT P
HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent
Attention:  [                  ] Fax: [                  ]
Re:          Corporate Units of The Stanley Works, a Connecticut corporation (the "")
Company
                
Please refer to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007 (the ""), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities Intermediary and as Custodial Agent, and the undersigned, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of Corporate Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.
Agreement
                
We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.02(a) of the Agreement that the Holder of Corporate Units named below (the "") has elected to pay to the Securities Intermediary for deposit in the Collateral Account, prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date (in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers check or wire transfer, in immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary), $                   as the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock issuable to such Holder by the Company with respect to                  Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date and has delivered to the undersigned a notice to that effect.
Holder
                
We hereby request that you, upon confirmation that the Purchase Price has been paid by the Holder in accordance with Section 5.02(a)(ii) of the Agreement, (A) instruct the Securities Intermediary promptly to invest any such Cash in Permitted Investments consistent with the instructions of the Company as provided for in Section 5.02(a)(v) of the Agreement, (B) release from the Pledge the Convertible Notes related to the Corporate Units as to which such Holder has effected a Cash Settlement; and (C) instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer all such Convertible Notes to us for distribution to such Holder, in each case free and clear of the Pledge created by the Agreement.
EXHIBIT Q
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street
New York, New York 10013
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated 1585 Broadway
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
                
This Remarketing Agreement is dated as of [__________, 2010] (this "") by and among The Stanley Works, a Connecticut corporation (the ""), Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as the reset agents and the remarketing agents (each a "" and collectively, the ""), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., not individually but solely as Purchase Contract Agent (the "" or the "") and as attorney-in-fact of the holders of Purchase Contracts (as defined in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement referred to below).
Agreement
Company
Remarketing Agent
Remarketing Agents
Purchase Contract Agent
Trustee
                
SECTION 1(a) Capitalized terms used and not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in (i) the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007, among the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, as amended from time to time (the "") and (ii) the Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of March 20, 2007 between the Company and the Trustee (the ""), as the context requires.
.  Definitions.
Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement
Supplemental Indenture No. 1
                
(b)       As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings:
                
"" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Remarketing Agreement.
Agreement
                
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.
Commencement Date
                
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
                
"" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Remarketing Agreement.
Company
                
"" means the series of notes designated the Convertible Notes of the Company issued pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture No. 1.
Convertible Notes
                
"" means (x) the Statutory Prospectus, (y) the Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses, if any, agreed to, in writing, by the Company and the Remarketing Agents, and (z) any other Free Writing Prospectus, if any, agreed to, in writing, by the Company and the Remarketing Agents.
Disclosure Package
                
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
                
"" means a free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Free Writing Prospectus
                
"" means an issuer free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
                
"" means any preliminary prospectus included as part of the Registration Statement prior to the time the Registration Statement became effective or any preliminary prospectus or preliminary prospectus supplement provided by the Company for use by the Remarketing Agents in connection with the Remarketing of the Remarketed Convertible Notes on or prior to a Remarketing Date, including the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein as of the date of such preliminary prospectus or preliminary prospectus supplement; and any reference to any amendment or supplement to such preliminary prospectus or preliminary prospectus supplement, if permitted by the rules and regulations under the Securities Act, shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after the date of such preliminary prospectus or preliminary prospectus supplement under the Exchange Act and incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such preliminary prospectus or preliminary prospectus supplement.
Preliminary Prospectus
                
"" means the prospectus or prospectus supplement constituting a part of the Registration Statement relating to the Remarketed Convertible Notes, including the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein as of the date of such prospectus or prospectus supplement in the form transmitted for filing to the Commission after the effective date of the
Prospectus
                
"" has the meaning specified in Section 1(a).
Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement
                
"" means a registration statement under the Securities Act prepared by the Company and filed with the Commission relating to, inter alia, the Remarketing of the Remarketed Convertible Notes pursuant to Section 5(a) hereunder, including all exhibits thereto and the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the prospectus contained in such registration statement, and any pre-effective or post-effective amendments thereto.
Registration Statement
                
"" means the aggregate Convertible Notes underlying the Pledged Convertible Notes and the Separate Convertible Notes, if any, subject to Remarketing as identified to the Remarketing Agents by the Purchase Contract Agent and the Custodial Agent, respectively, in each case promptly after 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date in accordance with the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and shall include: (a) the Convertible Notes underlying the Pledged Convertible Notes of the Holders of Corporate Units who have not effected a Collateral Substitution or a Cash Merger Early Settlement, in each case prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date, or an Early Settlement prior to April 14, 2010, and Holders of Corporate Units who have not notified the Purchase Contract Agent prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date of their intention to effect a Cash Settlement of the related Purchase Contracts pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement or who have so notified the Purchase Contract Agent but failed to make the required cash payment prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date, and (b) the Separate Convertible Notes of the holders of Separate Convertible Notes, if any, who have elected to have their Separate Convertible Notes remarketed in such Remarketing prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date, pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Remarketed Convertible Notes
                
"" means the remarketing of the Remarketed Convertible Notes pursuant to this Remarketing Agreement on any Remarketing Date.
Remarketing
                
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.
Remarketing Fee
                
"" means the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Statutory Prospectus, the Prospectus or any other information furnished by the Company to the Remarketing Agents for distribution to investors in connection with the Remarketing.
Remarketing Materials
                
"" means the Purchase Contract Settlement Date.
Remarketing Settlement Date
                
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2(c).
Reset Rate
                
"" has the meaning specified in Section 9.
Securities
                
"" means, as of any time, the prospectus or prospectus supplement relating to the Remarketed Convertible Notes that is included as part of the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein.
Statutory Prospectus
                
"" means this Agreement, the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and the Supplemental Indenture No. 1, in each case as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Transaction Documents
                
"" means The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
Trustee
                
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3(a).
Underwriting Agreement
                
SECTION 2(a) The Company hereby appoints Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated as the exclusive Remarketing Agents, and, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated hereby accept appointment as Remarketing Agents, for the purpose of (i) remarketing the Remarketed Convertible Notes on behalf of the holders thereof, (ii) determining, in consultation with the Company, in the manner provided for herein and in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and the Supplemental Indenture No. 1, the Reset Rate for the Convertible Notes, and (iii) performing such other duties as are assigned to the Remarketing Agents in the Transaction Documents.
.  Appointment and Obligations of the Remarketing Agents.
                
(b)       Unless a Termination Event has occurred prior to such date, the Remarketing Agents shall use their reasonable efforts to remarket the Remarketed Convertible Notes at the Remarketing Price on May 10, 2010 and, unless a Successful Remarketing has occurred on such date, on May 11, 2010 (each, a
                
(c)       In connection with each Remarketing, the Remarketing Agents shall determine, in consultation with the Company, an annual rate of interest on the Convertible Notes equal to 3-month LIBOR, reset quarterly on each LIBOR Reset Date beginning on the Remarketing Settlement Date, plus or minus a spread, rounded to the nearest one-thousandth (0.001) of one percent per annum, that the Convertible Notes should bear (the "") in order for the Remarketed Convertible Notes to have an aggregate market value equal to at least the Remarketing Price and that in the sole reasonable discretion of the Remarketing Agents will enable them to remarket all of the Remarketed Convertible Notes at no less than the Remarketing Price in such Remarketing. The Reset Rate may be equal to or higher than 3-month LIBOR minus 3.500%, but may not be lower than 3-month LIBOR minus 3.500%. However, in no event shall the Reset Rate exceed the maximum rate permitted by applicable law or be less than 0%.
Reset Rate
                
(d)       If, by 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second Remarketing Date, (1) the Remarketing Agents are unable to remarket all of the Remarketed Convertible Notes, other than to the Company, at a price equal to or greater than the Remarketing Price pursuant to the terms and conditions hereof or (2) the Remarketing did not occur on such Remarketing Date because one of the conditions set forth in Section 6 hereof was not satisfied, a Failed Remarketing shall be deemed to have occurred, and the Remarketing Agents shall advise by telephone (promptly confirmed in writing) the Depositary, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Company. Whether or not there has been a Failed Remarketing will be determined in the sole reasonable discretion of the Remarketing Agents. In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the applicable interest rate on the Convertible Notes will not be reset, and will continue to be the Initial Interest Rate set forth in the Supplemental Indenture No. 1.
                
(e)       In the event of a Successful Remarketing, by approximately 4:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Remarketing Date, the Remarketing Agents shall advise, by telephone (promptly confirmed in writing in the case of clause (1)):
                
(f)       The proceeds from a Successful Remarketing (i) with respect to the Convertible Notes that are components of the Corporate Units shall be paid to the Collateral Agent in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement and (ii) with respect to the Separate Convertible Notes, shall be paid to the Custodial Agent for payment to the holders of such Separate Convertible Notes in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
(g)       The right of each holder of Remarketed Convertible Notes to have such Remarketed Convertible Notes remarketed and sold on any Remarketing Date shall be subject to the conditions that (i) a Termination Event has not occurred prior to such Remarketing Date, (ii) the Remarketing Agents are able to find a purchaser or purchasers for Remarketed Convertible Notes at the Remarketing Price based on the Reset Rate, and (iii) such purchaser or purchasers on the Remarketing Settlement Date of the Remarketed Convertible Notes deliver the purchase price therefor to the Remarketing Agents as and when required.
                
(h)       It is understood and agreed that the Remarketing Agents shall not have any obligation whatsoever to purchase any Remarketed Convertible Notes, whether in the Remarketing or otherwise, and shall in no way be obligated to provide funds to make payment upon tender of Remarketed Convertible Notes for Remarketing or to otherwise expend or risk its own funds or incur or to be exposed to financial liability in the performance of its duties under this Agreement. Neither the Company nor the Remarketing Agents, nor any agent of the Company or the Remarketing Agents, shall be obligated in any case to provide funds to make payment upon tender of the Remarketed Convertible Notes for Remarketing.
                
SECTION 3The Company represents and warrants (except as may be adapted as necessary to relate to the Remarketed Convertible Notes and to the Remarketing Materials, if any, or to any changed circumstances or events occurring subsequent to the date of this Agreement, such adaptations being reasonably acceptable to counsel to the Remarketing Agents), (i) on and as of the date any Remarketing Materials are first distributed in connection with any Remarketing (the ""), (ii) on and as of the applicable Remarketing Date and (iii) on and as of the Remarketing Settlement Date, that:
.  Representations and Warranties of the Company.
Commencement Date
                
(a)       Each of the representations and warranties of the Company as set forth in Sections 3(a) through 3(c), Sections 3(k) through 3(1), Sections 3(n) through 3(o), Section 3(p)(i), Section 3(q) and Sections 3(s) through 3(t)(i) of the Underwriting Agreement dated March 14, 2007 (the "") among the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as Representatives of the Underwriters identified in Schedule II thereto, is true and correct as if made on each of the dates specified above; that for purposes of this Section 3(a), any reference in such sections of the Underwriting Agreement to (i) the "Registration Statement", the "Prospectus", the "Statutory Prospectus", the "Disclosure Package" and the "Preliminary Prospectus" shall be deemed to refer to the correlative terms as defined herein, (ii) the "Closing Date" shall be deemed to refer to the Remarketing Settlement Date, (iii) the "Securities" shall be deemed to refer to the Remarketed Convertible Notes, and (iv) "this Underwriting Agreement" shall be ignored.
Underwriting Agreement
provided
                
(b)       The Registration Statement has been declared effective by the Commission; and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceeding for that purpose has been initiated or threatened by the Commission.
                
(c)       At the time of filing of the Registration Statement and as of the applicable Remarketing Date and the Remarketing Settlement Date, the Company was not and will not be an "ineligible issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act). The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, on the date filed with the Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act, complied in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder or pursuant to said rules and regulations will be deemed to comply therewith; and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents are filed with the Commission, will
comply in all material respects to the requirements of the Exchange Act or pursuant to said rules and regulations will be deemed to comply therewith. As of the latest date any part of the Registration Statement became, or is deemed to have become, effective by the Commission under the Securities Act, the Registration Statement did not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the time that any Preliminary Prospectus is delivered to the Remarketing Agents for its use in remarketing the Remarketed Convertible Notes, such Preliminary Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. At the time the Prospectus is delivered to the Remarketing Agents for its use in making confirmations of sales of the Remarketed Convertible Notes and as of the Remarketing Settlement Date, the Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and, on said dates and at such times, the documents then incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, when read together with the Prospectus, will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The foregoing representations and warranties in this paragraph (c) shall not apply to statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Remarketing Agents or on behalf of the Remarketing Agents specifically for use in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, or the Prospectus or to any statements in or omissions from the statement of eligibility of the Trustee on Form T-1 under the TIA filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement (the "").
Statement of Eligibility
                
(d)       The Registration Statement as of the latest date any part of the Registration Statement became effective, or is deemed to have become effective by the Commission under the Securities Act, complied (and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, if any, and any further amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, when they become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will comply) in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act.
                
(e)       No consent, approval, authorization, filing with or order of any court or governmental agency or body is required for the Remarketing or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents except such as may be or have been obtained under the Securities Act, the TIA and such as may be required under the blue sky laws of any jurisdiction in connection with the Remarketing.
                
(f)       The Company is not required to register as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
                
(g)       As of the applicable Remarketing Date, the Disclosure Package, and each electronic roadshow agreed to in writing by the Company and the Remarketing Agents, when taken together with the Disclosure Package, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Remarketing Agents or on behalf of the Remarketing Agents specifically for use in connection with the preparation of the Disclosure Package.
                
(h)       Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and the final term sheet prepared and filed pursuant to Section 5(b) hereof does not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Statutory Prospectus, including any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein that has not been superseded or modified. If there occurs an event or development as a result of which the Disclosure Package would include an untrue statement of a material fact or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances then prevailing, not misleading, the Company will notify promptly the Remarketing Agents so that any use of the Disclosure Package may cease until it is amended or supplemented. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Remarketing Agents or on behalf of the Remarketing Agents specifically for use in connection with the preparation of the Disclosure Package.
                
SECTION 4 In the event of a Successful Remarketing of the Remarketed Convertible Notes, the Company shall pay the Remarketing Agents a remarketing fee to be agreed upon in writing by the Company and each Remarketing Agent prior to any such Remarketing (the ""). Such Remarketing Fee shall be paid by the Company on the Remarketing Settlement Date in cash by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by each Remarketing Agent.
.  Fees.
Remarketing Fee
                
SECTION 5The Company covenants and agrees as follows:
.  Covenants of the Company.
                
(a)       to prepare the Registration Statement, and the Prospectus, in a form approved by the Remarketing Agents, to file any such Prospectus pursuant to the
Securities Act within the period required by the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Registration Statement to be declared effective by the Commission prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date;
                
(b)       to prepare a final term sheet, containing solely a description of final terms of the Remarketed Convertible Notes and the offering thereof, in a form approved by the Remarketing Agents and to file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) within the time required by such Rule. Such term sheet shall be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and the prior written consent of the parties hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus;
                
(c)       to file promptly with the Commission any amendment to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any supplement to the Prospectus that may, in the reasonable judgment of the Company or the Remarketing Agents, be required by the Securities Act or requested by the Commission;
                
(d)       to advise the Remarketing Agents, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when any amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed or becomes effective or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus has been filed and to furnish the Remarketing Agents with copies thereof;
                
(e)       to file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Prospectus and for so long as the delivery of a Prospectus is required (but for Rule 172 under the Securities Act) in connection with the offering or sale of the Remarketed Convertible Notes;
                
(f)       to advise the Remarketing Agents, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, of the suspension of the qualification of any of the Remarketed Convertible Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, of the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for any such purpose, or of any request by the Commission for the amending or supplementing of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information, and, in the event of the issuance of any stop order or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or suspending any such qualification, to use promptly its best efforts to obtain its withdrawal;
                
(g)       to furnish promptly to the Remarketing Agents such copies of the following documents as the Remarketing Agents shall reasonably request: (A)
conformed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed with the Commission and each amendment thereto (in each case excluding exhibits); (B) the Preliminary Prospectus and any amended or supplemented Preliminary Prospectus; (C) the Disclosure Package; (D) the Prospectus and any amended or supplemented Prospectus; and (E) any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package (excluding exhibits thereto);
                
(h)       during such period of time as the Remarketing Agents are required by law to deliver a prospectus (including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 under the Securities Act) after a Remarketing Date, if any event relating to or affecting the Company, or of which the Company shall be advised by either Remarketing Agent in writing, shall occur which in the Company's opinion should be set forth in a supplement or amendment to the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package in order to make the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package not misleading in the light of the circumstances when it (including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 under the Securities Act) is delivered to a purchaser of the Remarketed Convertible Notes, the Company will amend or supplement the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package by preparing and filing with the Commission and furnishing to the Remarketing Agents a reasonable number of copies of a supplement or supplements or an amendment or amendments to the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package, so that, as supplemented or amended, the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances when the Prospectus (including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 under the Securities Act) or the Disclosure Package is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading. Unless such event relates solely to the activities of either Remarketing Agent (in which case such Remarketing Agent shall assume the expense of preparing any such amendment or supplement), the expenses of complying with this Section 5(h) shall be borne by the Company;
                
(i)       the Company will not file any amendment to the Registration Statement or any supplement to the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package, in each case relating to the Remarketed Convertible Notes, without prior notice to the Remarketing Agents and to Davis Polk & Wardwell (""), or any such amendment or supplement to which said Counsel shall reasonably object on legal grounds in writing;
Counsel for the Remarketing Agents
                
(j)       the Company will make generally available to its security holders, as soon as practicable, an earning statement (which need not be audited) covering a period of at least twelve months beginning after the "effective date of the registration statement" within the meaning of Rule 158 under the Securities Act, which earning statement shall be in such form, and be made generally available to security holders in such a manner, as to meet the requirements of the last
paragraph of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 under the Securities Act;
                
(k)       to take such action as the Remarketing Agents may reasonably request in order to qualify the Remarketed Convertible Notes for offer and sale under the securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as the Remarketing Agents may reasonably request; that in no event shall the Company be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction;
provided
                
(l)       to pay: (1) the costs incident to the preparation and filing of the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto; (2) the qualification of the Securities under the blue sky laws of various jurisdictions in an amount not to exceed $3,500; (3) the printing and delivery to the Remarketing Agents of reasonable quantities of copies of the Registration Statement, the preliminary (and any supplemental) blue sky survey, any Preliminary Prospectus, each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g) of this Section 5; (4) the costs of filings or other notices (if any) with or to, as the case may be, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "") in connection with its review of the terms of the offering, (5) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of the obligations of the Company hereunder and the Remarketing Agents hereunder; and (6) the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Remarketing Agents in connection with its duties hereunder;
NASD
                
(m)       to furnish the Remarketing Agents with such information and documents as the Remarketing Agents may reasonably request in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, and to make reasonably available to the Remarketing Agents and any accountant, attorney or other advisor retained by the Remarketing Agents such information that parties would customarily require in connection with a due diligence investigation conducted in accordance with applicable securities laws and to cause the Company's officers, directors, employees and accountants to participate, to the extent requested, in all such discussions and to supply all such information reasonably requested by any such Person in connection with such investigation; and
                
(n)       the Company agrees that, unless it has obtained or will obtain, as the case may be, the prior written consent of each Remarketing Agent, and each Remarketing Agent agrees with the Company that, unless it has obtained or will obtain, as the case may be, the prior written consent of the Company, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Remarketed Convertible Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a Free Writing Prospectus required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 under the Securities Act, other than the final term sheet prepared and filed pursuant to Section 5(b) hereto,
under the Securities Act; any such Free Writing Prospectus consented to by the Remarketing Agents or the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (x) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and (y) it has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including, if applicable, in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
                
SECTION 6The obligations of the Remarketing Agents hereunder shall be subject to the following conditions:
.  Conditions to the Remarketing Agents' Obligations.
                
(a)       The Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act prior to 5:30 P.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day following its use by the Remarketing Agents, or such other time and date as may be agreed upon by the Company and the Remarketing Agents.
                
(b)       No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall be in effect at or prior to the Remarketing Settlement Date; no proceedings for such purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or relating to the offering of the Remarketed Convertible Notes shall be pending before, or, to the knowledge of the Company or either of the Remarketing Agents, threatened by, the Commission on the Remarketing Date;
                
(c)       There shall not have occurred any of the following: (a)(i) trading in the securities of the Company or generally shall have been suspended or limited on the New York Stock Exchange by the NYSE, the Commission or other governmental authority, (ii) minimum or maximum ranges for prices shall have been generally established on the New York Stock Exchange by The New York Stock Exchange, Inc., the Commission or other governmental authority, (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities in New York shall have been declared by either Federal or New York State authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearing services in the United States shall have occurred, (iv) any material outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any calamity or crisis that, in the judgment of either of the Remarketing Agents, is material and adverse, or (v) any material adverse change in financial, political or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere shall have occurred and (b) in the case of any of the events specified in clauses (a)(i) through (v), such event singly or together with any other such event makes it, in the judgment of either of the Remarketing Agents, impracticable or
inadvisable to proceed with the Remarketing or to enforce contracts for the sale of any of the Remarketed Convertible Notes.
                
(d)       The representations and warranties of the Company contained herein shall be true and correct on and as of the applicable Remarketing Date and the Remarketing Settlement Date, and the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent shall have performed all covenants and agreements contained herein or in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement to be performed on their part at or prior to such Remarketing Date and such Remarketing Settlement Date.
                
(e)       The Company shall have furnished to the Remarketing Agents a certificate, dated the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date, of the President, a Vice President, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Company stating that: (1) no order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or prohibiting the sale of the Remarketed Convertible Notes is in effect, and no proceedings for such purpose are pending before or, to the knowledge of such officer, threatened by the Commission; (2) the representations and warranties of the Company in Section 3 hereof are true and correct on and as of the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date and the Company has performed in all material respects all covenants and agreements contained herein to be performed on its part at or prior to such Remarketing Settlement Date; and (3) the Registration Statement, as of the latest date any part of the Registration Statement became, or is deemed to have become, effective by the Commission under the Securities Act, and the Remarketing Materials, as of their respective dates, did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact and did not omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and the Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
                
(f)       On the applicable Remarketing Date and the Remarketing Settlement Date, the Remarketing Agents shall have received a letter addressed to the Remarketing Agents and dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Remarketing Agents, of the independent registered public accountants of the Company, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" with respect to certain financial information contained in the Remarketing Materials, if any.
                
(g)       Counsel for the Company reasonably acceptable to the Remarketing Agents shall have furnished to the Remarketing Agents its or their opinion or opinions, addressed to the Remarketing Agents and dated the Remarketing Settlement Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the
Remarketing Agents addressing such matters as are set forth in such counsel's opinion or opinions furnished pursuant to Section 7(d) of the Underwriting Agreement, adapted as necessary to relate to the Remarketed Convertible Notes and to the Remarketing Materials, if any, or to any changed circumstances or events occurring subsequent to the date of this Agreement, such adaptations being reasonably acceptable to counsel to the Remarketing Agents.
                
(h)       Counsel for the Remarketing Agents shall have furnished to the Remarketing Agents its opinion, addressed to the Remarketing Agents and dated the Remarketing Settlement Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Remarketing Agents.
                
(i)       Subsequent to the Commencement Date and prior to the Remarketing Settlement Date, there shall not have occurred any downgrading, withdrawal or suspension in the rating accorded any of the Company's securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act that currently has publicly released a rating of the Company's securities and no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, with negative implications, its rating of any of the Company's securities.
                
SECTION 7(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Remarketing Agent, the directors, officers, employees, Affiliates and agents of each Remarketing Agent and each person who controls any Remarketing Agent within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other U.S. federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or in the Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Statutory Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the information contained in the final term sheet required to be prepared and filed pursuant to Section 5(b) hereto, or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Remarketing Agent specifically for inclusion
.  Indemnification.
provided
however
therein.  This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Company may otherwise have.
                
(b)       Each Remarketing Agent severally, and not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs the Registration Statement and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Remarketing Agent, but only with reference to written information relating to such Remarketing Agent furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Remarketing Agent specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that any Remarketing Agent may otherwise have. The Company acknowledges that the statements contained in the "Underwriting" section of any Preliminary Prospectus and the Statutory Prospectus (i) in the third sentence of the fifth paragraph of text, (ii) in the second sentence of the sixth paragraph of text and (iii) in the ninth, tenth and eleventh paragraphs of text of such section constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Remarketing Agents for inclusion in any Preliminary Prospectus the Statutory Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or in any amendment or supplement thereto.
                
(c)       Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 7 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 7, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel, other than local counsel if not appointed by the indemnifying party, retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , , that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of no more than one such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to
provided
however
represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement or an admission of fault, culpability by failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
                
(d)       In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 7 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company and the Remarketing Agents severally agree to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending any loss, claim, damage, liability or action) (collectively "Losses") to which the Company and one or more of the Remarketing Agents may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and by the Remarketing Agents on the other in connection with the Remarketing of the Remarketed Convertible Notes; , , that in no case shall any Remarketing Agent be responsible for any amount in excess of the amount by which the Remarketing Fee exceeds the amount of any damages that such Remarketing Agent has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company and the Remarketing Agents severally shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Remarketing Agents on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information
provided
however
provided by the Company on the one hand or the Remarketing Agents on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The Company and the Remarketing Agents agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 7, each person who controls a Remarketing Agent within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee, Affiliate and agent of a Remarketing Agent shall have the same rights to contribution as such Remarketing Agent, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
                
SECTION 8Either of the Remarketing Agents may resign and be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder, and the Company may remove either of the Remarketing Agents, by giving 10 days' prior written notice, in the case of a resignation, to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent and, in the case of a removal, to the removed Remarketing Agent and the Purchase Contract Agent.
.  Resignation and Removal of the Remarketing Agents.
                
In any such case, the Company will use commercially reasonable efforts to appoint a successor Remarketing Agent and enter into a remarketing agreement (or an appropriate amendment to this Agreement) with such person as soon as reasonably practicable. The provisions of Section 7 shall survive the resignation or removal of any Remarketing Agent pursuant to this Agreement.
                
SECTION 9A Remarketing Agent, when acting as a Remarketing Agent or in its individual or any other capacity, may, to the extent permitted by law, buy, sell, hold and deal in any of the Remarketed Convertible Notes, Corporate Units, Treasury Units or any of the securities of the Company (together, the ""). A Remarketing Agent may exercise any vote or join in any action which any beneficial owner of such Securities may be entitled to exercise or take pursuant to the Indenture with like effect as if it did not act in any capacity hereunder. A Remarketing Agent, in its individual capacity, either as principal or agent, may also engage in or have an interest in any financial or other transaction with the Company as freely as if it did not act in any capacity hereunder.
.  Dealing in Securities.
Securities
                
SECTION 10The duties and obligations of the Remarketing Agents hereunder shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents. No implied covenants or obligations of or against the Remarketing Agents shall be read into this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Documents. In the absence of bad faith on the part of a Remarketing Agent, a Remarketing Agent may conclusively rely upon any document furnished to it, as to the truth of the statements expressed in any of such documents. A Remarketing Agent shall be protected in acting upon any document or communication reasonably believed by it to have been signed, presented or made by the proper party or parties except as otherwise set forth herein. A Remarketing Agent shall have no obligation to determine whether there is any limitation under applicable law on the Reset Rate on the Convertible Notes or, if there is any such limitation, the maximum permissible Reset Rate on the Convertible Notes, and it shall rely solely upon written notice from the Company (which the Company agrees to provide prior to the third Business Day before the applicable Remarketing Date) as to whether or not there is any such limitation and, if so, the maximum permissible Reset Rate. A Remarketing Agent, acting under this Agreement, shall incur no liability to the Company or to any holder of Remarketed Convertible Notes in its individual capacity or as Remarketing Agent for any action or failure to act, on its part in connection with a Remarketing or otherwise, except if such liability is judicially determined to have resulted from its failure to comply with the material terms of this Agreement or bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct on its part. The provisions of this Section 10 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and shall survive the resignation or removal of any Remarketing Agent pursuant to this Agreement.
.  Remarketing Agents' Performance; Duty of Care.
                
SECTION 11Any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, (a) the indemnity and contribution agreements contained in Section 7 hereof, and the representations and warranties and other agreements of the Company and the Remarketing Agents contained in this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of a Remarketing Agent or by or on behalf of the Company or its directors or officers, or any of the other persons referred to in Section 7 hereof and (ii) acceptance of and payment for the Remarketed Convertible Notes, and (b) the indemnity and contribution agreements contained in Section 7 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of any termination of this Agreement.
.  Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations.
                
SECTION 12This Agreement shall automatically terminate (i) as to a Remarketing Agent on the effective date of the resignation or removal of such Remarketing Agent pursuant to Section 8 hereof and (ii) on the earlier of (x) the occurrence of a Termination Event and (y) the Business Day immediately following the Remarketing Settlement Date. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to any of the other provisions hereof, except as otherwise
.  Termination.
provided herein, the Company shall not be under any liability to either of the Remarketing Agents and the Remarketing Agents shall not be under any liability to the Company, except that if this Agreement is terminated by a Remarketing Agent with respect to such Remarketing Agent because of any failure or refusal on the part of the Company to comply with the terms or to fulfill any of the conditions of this Agreement, the Company will reimburse such Remarketing Agent for all of its out-of-pocket expenses (including the fees and disbursements of its counsel) reasonably incurred by it. Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, in the event there has been a Successful Remarketing, the obligations set forth in Section 4 hereof shall survive and remain in full force and effect until all amounts payable under said Section 4 shall have been paid in full. In addition, Sections 7 and 10 hereof shall survive the termination of this Agreement or the resignation or removal of the Remarketing Agents.
                
SECTION 13THE RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE PARTIES TO THIS REMARKETING AGREEMENT SHALL, PURSUANT TO NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW SECTION 5-1401, BE GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO ANY CHOICE OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT MIGHT CALL FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION. EACH PARTY HERETO, AND EACH HOLDER OF A UNIT BY ACCEPTANCE THEREOF, HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. This Agreement shall become effective when a fully executed copy hereof is delivered to the Remarketing Agents by the Company. This Agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed to be an original and all of which, taken together, shall constitute but one and the same agreement. This Agreement shall inure to the sole benefit of each of the Company, the Remarketing Agents, and the Purchase Contract Agent, except that with respect to the provisions of Section 7 hereof, such provisions shall also be deemed to be for the benefit of each director, officer and other persons referred to in Section 7 hereof, and their respective successors. Should any part of this Agreement for any reason be declared invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of any remaining portion, which remaining portion shall remain in full force and effect as if this Agreement had been executed with the invalid portion thereof eliminated. Nothing herein is intended or shall be construed to give to any other person, firm or corporation any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of any provision in this Agreement. The term "successor" as used in this Agreement shall not include any purchaser, as such purchaser, of any Securities from a Remarketing Agent.
.  Miscellaneous.
                
SECTION 14All communications hereunder shall be in writing and, if to the Remarketing Agents, shall be delivered or sent by mail, telex or facsimile transmission to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Attention: General Counsel (fax: 212-816-7912) and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Serkan Savasoglu (fax: 212 404-9481); if to the Company, shall be delivered or sent by mail, telex or facsimile transmission to the Company, 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, CT 06053, Attention: Donald Riccitelli (fax: 860-827-3911); and if to the Purchase Contract Agent, shall be delivered or sent by mail or facsimile transmission to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602. Any such statements, requests, notices or agreements shall take effect at the time of receipt thereof.
.  Notices.
                
SECTION 15This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts and, if executed in more than one counterpart, the executed counterparts shall each be deemed to be an original but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
.  Counterparts.
                
SECTION 16The headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement.
.  Headings.
                
SECTION 17If any provision of this Agreement shall be held or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any or all jurisdictions because it conflicts with any provisions of any constitution, statute, rule or public policy or for any other reason, then, to the extent permitted by law, such circumstances shall not have the effect of rendering the provision in question invalid, inoperative or unenforceable in any other case, circumstance or jurisdiction, or of rendering any other provision or provisions of this Agreement invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any extent whatsoever.
.  Severability.
                
SECTION 18This Agreement may be amended by an instrument in writing signed by the parties hereto. Each of the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent agrees that it will not enter into, cause or permit any amendment or modification of the Transaction Documents or any other instruments or agreements relating to the Convertible Notes or the Corporate Units that would in any way adversely affect the rights, duties and obligations of the Remarketing Agents, without the prior written consent of such Remarketing Agent.
.  Amendments.
                
SECTION 19Except in the case of a succession pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, the rights and obligations of the Company hereunder may not be assigned or delegated to any other Person without the prior written consent of the Remarketing Agents.
.  Successors and Assigns.
The rights and obligations of the Remarketing Agents hereunder may not be assigned or delegated to any other Person (other than an affiliate of such Remarketing Agent) without the prior written consent of the Company.
                
If the foregoing correctly sets forth the agreement by and among the Company, the Remarketing Agents and the Purchase Contract Agent, please indicate your acceptance in the space provided for that purpose below.

                
WHEREAS, the Company has executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture dated as of November 1, 2002, between the Company and the Trustee, as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the "" and, together with this Supplemental Indenture No.1, the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of one or more series of Securities;
Base Indenture
Indenture
                
WHEREAS, Section 9.1(4) of the Base Indenture provides for the Company and the Trustee to enter into an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture without the consent of any Holders to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series and any Coupons appertaining thereto as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 3.1 of the Base Indenture;
                
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Base Indenture, the Company wishes to provide for the issuance of a new series of Securities to be known as its Floating Rate Convertible Notes due May 17, 2012 (the ""), the form and terms of such Convertible Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in this Supplemental Indenture No.1; and
Convertible Notes
                
WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture No.1, and all requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture No.1 a valid, binding and enforceable instrument in accordance with its terms, and to make the Convertible Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Company, have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture No.1 has been duly authorized in all respects.
                
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                
Section 1.01This Supplemental Indenture No.1 constitutes an integral part of the Base Indenture.
.  Relation to Base Indenture.
                
Section 1.02For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture No.1:
.  Definition of Terms.
                
(b)       a term defined anywhere in this Supplemental Indenture No.1 has the same meaning throughout;
                
(c)       the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
                
(d)       headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation;
                
(e)       the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.02(e):
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.12.
Additional Cash Merger Shares
                
"" means, on any date, the Conversion Rate in effect on such date.
Applicable Conversion Rate
                
"" means $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof.
Authorized Denomination
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Beneficial Owner
                
"" means any transaction or event (whether by means of a share exchange or tender offer applicable to the Company's Common Stock, a liquidation, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, combination or merger of us or a sale, lease or other transfer of all or substantially all of our consolidated assets) or a series of related transactions or events pursuant to which 50% or more of outstanding Company Common Stock is exchanged for, converted into or constitutes solely the right to receive cash, securities or other property, more than 10% of which consists of cash, securities or other property that is not, or will not be upon consummation of such transaction, listed on a national securities exchange.
Cash Merger
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.11(f).
Cash Percentage
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.11(f).
Cash Percentage Notice
                
"" per share of Company Common Stock on any date of determination means:
Closing Price
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Collateral Account
                
"" means the common stock, par value $2.50 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Base Indenture.
Company Order
                
"" means the conversion agent appointed by the Company to act as set forth in Article 7 which, initially, shall be the Trustee.
Conversion Agent
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(c).
Conversion Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.05.
Conversion Rate
                
"" means the office of the Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor trustee (or such other address as such successor trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders, the Company, the Securities Registrar and the Paying Agent); provided, however, that for purposes of payments, transfers, exchanges, presentment or surrender of Certificates, the Corporate Trust Office shall be located at the agency office of the Purchase Contract Agent at 101 Barclay Street, 8W, New York, New York 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust Division - Corporate Finance Unit, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor trustee (or such other address as such successor trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Company).
Corporate Trust Office
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Corporate Unit
                
"" with respect to the Common Stock, means, for each of the 20 consecutive Trading Days during the Note Observation Period, the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page "SWK.N <equity> AQR" (or its equivalent successor if such page is not available) in respect of the period from the scheduled open of trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on such other primary market or exchange on which the Company's Common Stock then trades to the scheduled close of trading on such Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one share of the Company's Common Stock on such Trading Day as determined by the Company's Board of Directors in good faith using a volume-weighted method or by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company). Daily VWAP shall be determined without regard to after-hours trading or any other trading outside of the regular trading session hours.
Daily VWAP
                
"" means a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for the Convertible Notes.
Depositary
                
"" means a broker, dealer, bank, other financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time the Depositary effects book entry transfers and pledges of securities deposited with the Depositary.
Depositary Participant
                
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
                
"" means the first date upon which a sale of the Company's Common Stock does not automatically transfer the right to receive the relevant distribution from the seller of the Company Common Stock to the buyer of the Company Common Stock.
Ex-Dividend Date
                
"" means that either of the following occurs: (a) a Cash Merger, or (b) the Common Stock ceases to be listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange for 30 consecutive Trading Days.
Fundamental Change
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01.
Fundamental Change Repurchase Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.07.
Global Convertible Notes
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.06(d).
Initial Dividend Threshold
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(a).
Initial Interest Rate
                
"" means the period from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly made available for payment (or March 20, 2007 if no interest has been paid or been duly made available for payment) to, but excluding, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, or any earlier Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
Interest Period
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(b).
LIBOR Determination Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(b).
LIBOR Reset Date
                
"" means a day on which commercial banks are open for business, including dealings in United States dollars, in London.
London banking day
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.12.
Make-Whole Cap
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.12.
Make-Whole Floor
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04.
Maturity Date
                
"" means the display on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on such page (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates of major banks for United States dollars.
Moneyline Telerate Page 3750
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.11.
Note Daily Settlement Amount
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.11.
Note Daily Share Amount
                
"" with respect to a Convertible Note means the 20 consecutive Trading Day period beginning on and including the second Trading Day after the Conversion Date for such Convertible Note, except that with respect to any Convertible Note surrendered for conversion during the period beginning on the 22nd Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date until the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date, the "Note Observation Period" means the first 20 Trading Days beginning on and including the 22nd Scheduled Trading Day prior to the Maturity Date.
Note Observation Period
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.11.
Note Settlement Amount
                
"" means any corporation, association, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, individual, joint venture, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Pledged Convertible Notes
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Purchase Contract
                
"" means May 17, 2010.
Purchase Contract Settlement Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04(a).
Put Price
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04(a).
Put Right
                
"" for the payment of interest means, with respect to any Interest Payment Date, the first day of the calendar month in which such Interest Payment Date falls (whether or not a Business Day).
Record Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Article 8.
Remarketing
                
"" means, subject to the execution of a Remarketing Agreement, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, or any successor or successors thereto or replacement Remarketing Agent(s) appointed by the Company pursuant to the Remarketing Agreement.
Remarketing Agents
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Remarketing Agreement
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Remarketing Dates
                
"" means 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes being remarketed in a Remarketing.
Remarketing Price
                
"" means May 17, 2010.
Remarketing Settlement Date
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.02(b).
Repurchase Notice
                
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.05.
Repurchase Price
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Remarketing Agreement.
Reset Rate
                
"" means a day that is scheduled to be a Trading Day.
Scheduled Trading Day
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Base Indenture.
Securities
                
"" means a distribution by the Company to all holders of its Common Stock of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company.
Spin-Off
                
"" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "" means stock which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
Subsidiary
voting stock
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Termination Event
                
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
Treasury Unit
                
"" as determined by the Trustee, means, with respect to any Interest Period (a) the rate for the three-month deposits in United States dollars commencing on the related LIBOR Reset Date, that appears on the Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the LIBOR Determination Date; or
3-month LIBOR
                
The terms "," "," "," "" and "" shall have the respective meanings set forth in the recitals to this Supplemental Indenture No.1 and the paragraph preceding such recitals.
Company
Trustee
Indenture
Base Indenture
Convertible Notes
                
Section 2.01There is hereby authorized a series of notes designated as "Floating Rate Convertible Notes due May 17, 2012," and limited in aggregate principal amount to $330,000,000. The Convertible Notes may be issued from time to time upon the execution and delivery of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of Convertible Notes pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Base Indenture and upon the satisfaction of the other conditions set forth in such Section 3.3.
.  Designation and Principal Amount.
                
Section 2.02Except as provided in Section 2.07, the Convertible Notes shall be issued in fully registered, certificated form, bearing identical terms. Principal of and interest on the Convertible Notes will be payable, the transfer of such Convertible Notes will be registrable, and such Convertible Notes will be exchangeable for Convertible Notes of a like aggregate principal amount bearing identical terms and provisions, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, which shall initially be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee; , , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto at such address as shall appear in the Security Register or by wire transfer to an account appropriately designated by the Person entitled to payment by written notice given at least ten calendar days prior to the Interest Payment Date; , , that payments of interest on any Global Convertible Note registered in the name of the Depositary shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds in accordance with Depositary procedures.
.  Form, Payment and Appointment.
provided
however
provided
further
                
The Securities Registrar and Paying Agent for the Convertible Notes shall initially be the Trustee.
                
Section 2.03(a) The Convertible Notes shall bear interest initially at an annual rate of 3-month LIBOR, reset quarterly as described below, 3.500% (but in no event less than 0%) on the principal amount thereof (the "") from and including March 20, 2007, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for, to but excluding, the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the interest rate for all Convertible Notes may be reset by the Remarketing Agents to the Reset Rate with effect from the Purchase Contract Settlement Date,
.  Interest.
minus
Initial Interest Rate
                
(b)       The Initial Interest Rate on the Convertible Notes shall be reset on each February 17, May 17, August 17 and November 17 (each such date, a ""), commencing August 17, 2007. If any LIBOR Reset Date would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, that LIBOR Reset Date shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day, except if that Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, the LIBOR Reset Date will be the immediately preceding Business Day.
LIBOR Reset Date
                
The Trustee shall determine 3-month LIBOR on the second London banking day preceding the related LIBOR Reset Date (the "").
LIBOR Determination Date
                
(c)       Interest on the Convertible Notes shall be payable quarterly in arrears on February 17, May 17, August 17 and November 17 of each year (each, an ""), commencing August 17, 2007, to the Person in whose name the relevant Convertible Notes are registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Interest Payment Date. Each payment of interest shall include interest accrued for the Interest Period commencing on and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or, if none, March 20, 2007), to but excluding the applicable Interest Payment Date. Interest payable at maturity of the Convertible Notes shall be paid to the Person to whom the principal is payable.
Interest Payment Date
                
(d)       The amount of interest payable for any Interest Period shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in the Interest Period divided by 360. In the event that any scheduled Interest Payment Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, then payment of interest payable on such Interest Payment Date shall be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day; that if such Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, the Interest Payment Date shall be brought forward to the immediately preceding Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay).
provided
                
(e)       Regardless of the level of 3-month LIBOR, the interest rate on the Convertible Notes shall never be less than 0% per annum.
                
Section 2.04The date upon which the Convertible Notes shall become due and payable at final maturity, together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon, is May 17, 2012 (the ""). Principal and interest on the Convertible Notes shall be paid against presentation and surrender thereof at the Corporate Trust Office of the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, as the Company's Paying Agent unless (1) repurchased by the Company at a Holder's option upon a Fundamental Change or in exercise of the Put Right or (2) converted at a Holder's option as permitted under this Supplemental Indenture No.1.
.  Maturity.
Maturity Date
                
Section 2.06Holders of the Convertible Notes are not entitled to redeem the Convertible Notes.
.  Redemption.
                
Section 2.07Convertible Notes that are no longer a component of the Corporate Units and are released from the Collateral Account shall be issued in the form of a global note (a "") registered in the name of the Depositary, and, if issued as one or more Global Convertible Notes, the Depositary shall be The Depository Trust Company or such other depositary as any officer of the Company may from time to time designate. Upon the creation of Treasury Units, the re-creation of Corporate Units, a Successful Remarketing, a Cash Merger Early Settlement, an Early Settlement, a Cash Settlement, a Termination Event or a settlement of Purchase Contracts with separate cash if there has been a Failed Remarketing, all as provided in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, an appropriate annotation shall be made on the Schedule of Increases and Decreases on the Global Convertible Notes held by the Depositary. Unless and until such Global Convertible Note is exchanged for Convertible Notes in certificated form, Global Convertible Notes may be transferred, in whole but not in part, and any payments on the Convertible Notes shall be made, only to the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary, or to a successor Depositary selected or approved by the Company or to a nominee of such successor Depositary.
.  Global Convertible Notes.
Global Convertible Note
                
Section 2.08Article 4 of the Base Indenture entitled "Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture" shall not apply to the Convertible Notes.
.  Satisfaction and Discharge.
                
Section 2.09The Convertible Notes and the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication to be endorsed thereon are to be substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto, with such changes therein as the officers of the Company executing the Convertible Notes (by manual or facsimile signature) may approve, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof.
.  Form of Convertible Note.
                
Section 3.01 (a) If there shall occur a Fundamental Change at any time prior to the Maturity Date, then each Holder of a Separate Convertible Note shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to repurchase all of such Holder's Separate Convertible Notes, or any portion thereof that is a multiple of $1,000 principal amount, in cash, on a date (the "") specified by the Company, which may be no earlier than fifteen (15) days and no later than thirty-five (35) days after the date of the Repurchase Notice related to such Fundamental Change ( that in no event shall the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date be earlier than the fifth Business Day immediately following the Cash Merger Early Settlement Date
.  Repurchase
at Option of Holder Upon a Fundamental Change.
Fundamental Change Repurchase Date
provided
                
(b)       On or before the fifth calendar day after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall give or cause to be given to all Holders of record on the date of the Fundamental Change (and to beneficial holders as required by applicable law) a Repurchase Notice as set forth in Section 3.02 with respect to such Fundamental Change. The Company shall also deliver a copy of the Repurchase Notice to the Trustee, Conversion Agent and Paying Agent at such time as it is given to Holders of Separate Convertible Notes. In addition to the giving of such Repurchase Notice, the Company shall disseminate a press release through Dow Jones & Company, Inc. or Bloomberg Business News announcing the occurrence of such Fundamental Change or publish such information in The Wall Street Journal or another newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or on the Company's website, or through such other public medium as the Company shall deem appropriate at such time. No failure of the Company to give the foregoing notices and no defect therein shall limit the Holders' repurchase rights or affect the validity of the proceedings for the repurchase of the Separate Convertible Notes pursuant to this Section 3.01.
                
(c)       For a Separate Convertible Note to be repurchased at the option of the Holder pursuant to this Section 3.01, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately prior to the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, (i) a written notice of repurchase (the "") in the form set forth on the reverse of the Separate Convertible Note, duly completed, specifying (A) (if the Separate Convertible Note is certificated) the certificate number of the Separate Convertible Note that the Holder shall deliver to be repurchased or (if the Convertible Note is represented by a Convertible Note) that the relevant Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice complies with the appropriate Depositary procedures, (B) the portion of the principal amount of the Separate Convertible Note which the Holder will deliver to be repurchased, which portion must be in principal amounts of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 ( that the remaining principal amount of Convertible Notes not subject to repurchase must be in an Authorized Denomination) and (C) that such Separate Convertible Note shall be repurchased as of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Separate Convertible Note and in this Supplemental Indenture No.1; (ii) such Separate Convertible Note duly endorsed for transfer (if the Separate Convertible Note is certificated) or book-entry transfer of such Separate Convertible Note (if such Separate Convertible Note is represented by a Convertible Note). The delivery of such Separate Convertible Note to the Paying Agent with, or at any time after delivery of, the Fundamental
Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice
provided
together
with
                
(d)       Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Separate Convertible Notes may be repurchased by the Company pursuant to this Section 3.01 if the principal amount of the Convertible Notes has been accelerated, and such acceleration has not been rescinded or cured, on or prior to the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date (except in the case of an acceleration resulting from a default by the Company in the payment of the Repurchase Price pursuant to this Section 3.01 with respect to the Separate Convertible Notes to be repurchased).
                
(e)       Any repurchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.01 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder on the later of (x) two (2) Business Days following the time of book-entry transfer or delivery of such Separate Convertible Note to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by this Section 3.01 and (y) the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date with respect to such Separate Convertible Note ( the Holder has satisfied the conditions in this Section 3.01). Payment of the Repurchase Price on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date for a Separate Convertible Note for which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been delivered and not withdrawn is conditioned upon book-entry transfer or delivery of the Separate Convertible Notes, together with necessary endorsements, to the Paying Agent prior to the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
provided
                
Section 3.02(a) The Repurchase Notice, as provided in clause (b) below, shall be given to Holders in the event of a Fundamental Change, on or before the fifth calendar day after the occurrence of such a Fundamental Change as provided in Section 3.01(b) (the "").
.  Repurchase Notice.
Repurchase Notice Date
                
(b)       In connection with any repurchase of Separate Convertible Notes, the Company shall, on the applicable Repurchase Notice Date, give written notice to Holders (with a copy to the Trustee) setting forth information specified in this Section 3.02(b) (the "").
Repurchase Notice
                
Each Repurchase Notice shall:
                
(c)       A Repurchase Notice may be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, the Trustee shall give such Repurchase Notice in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; that the text of the Repurchase Notice shall be prepared by the Company, and the Trustee, in giving such notice, may rely and shall be fully protected in relying upon such Company Request and shall have no responsibility for text prepared by the Company.
provided
                
(e)       The Company shall, to the extent applicable, comply with the provisions of Rule 13e-4, Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) and other tender offer rules under the Exchange Act that may be applicable at the time of the repurchase of the Separate Convertible Notes, file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act and comply with all other applicable federal and state securities laws in connection with the repurchase of the Separate Convertible Notes.
                
Section 3.03Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, the Holder of the Separate Convertible Note in respect of which such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice was given shall (unless such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice is validly withdrawn in accordance with this Section 3.03) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Repurchase Price with respect to such Separate Convertible Note. Such Repurchase Price shall be paid to such Holder on the later of (x) two (2) Business Days following the time of book-entry transfer or delivery of such Separate Convertible Note to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by this Section 3.03 and (y) the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date with respect to such Separate Convertible Note ( the Holder has satisfied the conditions in Section 3.01).
.  Effect of Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice; Withdrawal.
provided
                
Separate Convertible Notes in respect of which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article 7 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice unless such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn in accordance with this Section 3.03.
                
A Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately prior to the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date specifying:
                
If a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice is properly withdrawn, the Company shall not be obligated to repurchase the Separate Convertible Notes listed in such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice.
                
(b)       The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof.
                
Section 3.04(a) Prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent or, if the Company is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.03 of the Base Indenture an amount of cash (in immediately available funds if deposited on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date), sufficient to pay the aggregate Repurchase Price of all the Separate Convertible Notes or portions thereof that are to be repurchased as of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
.  Deposit of Repurchase Price.
                
(b)       If on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date the Paying Agent holds money sufficient to pay the Repurchase Price of the Separate Convertible Notes that Holders have elected to require the Company to repurchase in accordance with Section 3.01, then, on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date each such Separate Convertible Note shall cease to be outstanding, interest will cease to accrue and all other rights of the Holders of each such Separate Convertible Note shall terminate, other than the right to receive the Repurchase Price upon delivery or book-entry transfer of the Separate Convertible Note or, if such Separate Convertible Note has been timely tendered for conversion, the cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock due upon such conversion. This shall be the case whether or not book-entry transfer of the Separate Convertible Note has been made or the Separate Convertible Note has been delivered to the Paying Agent.
                
Section 3.05Upon presentation of any Separate Convertible Note to be repurchased only in part, the Company shall execute and upon receipt of such Separate Convertible Note or Separate Convertible Notes the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Convertible Note or Convertible Notes in aggregate principal amount equal to the unrepurchased portion of the Separate Convertible Notes presented ( that the unrepurchased portion of the Separate Convertible Notes must be in an integral multiple of $1,000).
.  Notes Repurchased in Part.
provided
                
Section 3.06Subject to Section 10.3 of the Base Indenture, upon the Company's request the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash that remains unclaimed, held by it for the payment of the Repurchase Price; that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 3.04 exceeds the aggregate Repurchase Price of the Separate Convertible Notes or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to repurchase as of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date then, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company, promptly after the second Business Day following the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date the Paying Agent shall return any such excess to the Company, together with interest, if any, thereon.
.  Repayment to the Company.
provided
                
Section 4.01As set forth in Section 9.02 of the Base Indenture, with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Convertible Notes directly affected by such supplemental indenture, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto or to the Base Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Base Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture No.1 or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Convertible Notes; , , that, in addition to clauses (1) through (4) of Section 9.02 of the Base Indenture, no such indenture or supplemental indenture shall (a) reduce the Repurchase Price of any Convertible Note or amend or modify in any manner adverse to the Holders of Convertible Notes the Company's obligation to make such payments, whether through an amendment or waiver of provisions in the covenants, definitions or otherwise, (b) reduce the Conversion Rate or modify the conversion settlement provisions in any manner that is adverse to the Holder, or (c) reduce the Additional Cash Merger shares, without, in the case of each of the foregoing clauses (a), (b) and (c), the consent of the Holder of each Convertible Note affected.
.  Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders of Convertible Notes.
provided
however
                
Section 4.02In addition to Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture, the Company may, without the consent of any Holder, enter into one or more supplemental indentures with the Trustee to: (i) conform the Indenture and the form and terms of the Convertible Notes to the "Description of Notes" set forth in the prospectus supplement dated March 14, 2007 relating to the initial offering of Convertible Notes and (ii) provide for conversion and settlement rights if any reclassification or change of the Common Stock occurs consistent with Section 7.14 hereof.
.  Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Holders of Convertible Notes.
                
So long as any Convertible Notes remain outstanding, the Company will comply with the following covenants in addition to those specified in Article Ten of the Indenture:
                
Section 5.01.  . The Company will maintain insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations or through its own program of self-insurance in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which it operates and furnish to the Trustee, within a reasonable time after written request therefor, such information as to the insurance carried as the Trustee may reasonably request.
Insurance
                
Section 5.02.  . The Company shall deliver documents and reports specified in Section 7.4 of the Base Indenture to the Holders of Convertible Notes.
Reports to Holders of Convertible Notes
                
Section 6.01So long as any Convertible Notes remain outstanding, each of the following events shall constitute an "" with respect to the Convertible Notes in addition to those Events of Default specified in Section 5.1 of the Base Indenture:
.  Additional Events of Default.
Event of Default
                
(a)       default in the payment of any Repurchase Price due with respect to the Convertible Notes, when due and payable;
                
(b)       failure to deliver cash and, if applicable, the Common Stock within five (5) days after the due date upon a conversion of Convertible Notes, together with any cash due in lieu of fractional shares;
                
(c)       the Company's failure to issue notice of any event described in Section 7.02, as required by such Section 7.02, and such failure continues for five (5) days; or
                
(d)       the Company's failure to provide timely notice in connection with a Fundamental Change.
                
Section 6.02 To the extent elected by the Company as a remedy pursuant to this Section 6.02, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to the failure to file any documents or reports that the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or under the terms of the Indenture and for any failure to comply with the requirements of Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act shall, for the
.
 Failure to File Reports.
                
Section 6.03In order to elect to pay the extension fee as the sole remedy during the first 120 days after the occurrence of an Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with the reporting obligations in accordance with Section 6.02, the Company must notify all Holders of Convertible Notes and the Trustee and Paying Agent of such election on or before the close of business on the date on which such Event of Default occurs, which will be the 60th day after notice to the Company of its failure to so comply.
. Extension Fee.
                
Section 7.01(a) Upon compliance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, on or after the twenty-second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date until the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date, the Holder of any Separate Convertible Notes not previously repurchased shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert its Separate Convertible Notes, or any portion thereof which is a multiple of $1,000, into cash and, if applicable, Common Stock, as provided in Section 7.11, by surrender of such Separate Convertible Notes so to be converted in whole or in part, together with any required funds, under the circumstances and in the manner described in this Article 7.
.  Right to Convert.
                
Section 7.02(a) In addition to the right to convert set forth in Section 7.01, Holders may convert their Separate Convertible Notes at any time prior to the twenty-second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date upon the occurrence of one of the following events:
.  Conversion Upon Specified Transactions.
                
The Company must notify the Holders of the Convertible Notes at least 25 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for a distribution under clause (i) or clause (ii). Following the issuance of such notice, Holders may surrender their Separate Convertible Notes for conversion at any time until the earlier of the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Ex-Dividend Date or an announcement that such distribution will not take place; , , that no adjustment to the ability of the Holders of Separate Convertible Notes to convert their Separate Convertible Notes shall be made if Holders, as a result of holding the Separate Convertible Notes, are entitled to participate at the same time as Common Stock holders participate in such transaction or distribution as if such Holders of Convertible Notes held a number shares of Common Stock equal to the Applicable Conversion Rate, by the principal amount of Convertible Notes held by such Holder, without having to convert their Convertible Notes.
provided
however
multiplied
                
(b)       In addition, upon a Fundamental Change, a Holder may surrender its Separate Convertible Notes for conversion at any time from and including the effective date of the Fundamental Change up to and including the second Business Day immediately prior to the related Fundamental Change Repurchase Date. The Company shall notify Holders of Corporate Units and Separate Convertible Notes and the Trustee as promptly as reasonably practicable following the date the Company publicly announces such transaction or event.
                
A Separate Convertible Note in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice exercising such Holder's right to require the Company to repurchase such Separate Convertible Note pursuant to Section 3.01 may be converted only if such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice is withdrawn in accordance with Section 3.03 prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately prior to the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
                
Section 7.03(a) In order to exercise the conversion right with respect to any Separate Convertible Note in certificated form, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent such Separate Convertible Note with the irrevocable duly completed and manually signed form entitled "Conversion Notice" on the reverse thereof (a ""), together with, if the Separate Convertible Note is in certificated form, such Separate Convertible Note duly endorsed for transfer, along with appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, if required, accompanied by the funds, if any, required by this Section 7.03. Such notice shall also state the name or names (with address or addresses) in which the certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock that shall be issuable on such conversion shall be issued, and shall be accompanied by transfer or similar taxes, if required pursuant to Section 7.07. To convert a Separate Convertible Note held in book-entry form, a Holder must convert by book-entry
.  Exercise of Conversion Right.
Conversion Notice
transfer to the Conversion Agent through the facilities of DTC and the conversion notice must comply with all applicable DTC procedures.
                
Holders may also obtain copies of the required form of the Conversion Notice from the Conversion Agent. A certificate, or a book-entry transfer through DTC, for the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock, if any, for which any Separate Convertible Notes are converted, together with a cash payment for any fractional shares, shall be delivered through the Conversion Agent as soon as practicable, but no later than the third Business Day following the last Trading Day of the Note Observation Period.
                
(b)       If the Company is required to deliver shares of Common Stock (upon settlement in accordance with Sections 7.11 and 7.12, if applicable, on the third Business Day immediately following the last day of the Note Observation Period), after satisfaction of the requirements for conversion set forth above, subject to compliance with any restrictions on transfer if shares issuable on conversion are to be issued in a name other than that of the Holder (as if such transfer were a transfer of the Separate Convertible Note or Separate Convertible Notes (or portion thereof) so converted), and in accordance with the time periods set forth in this Article 7, the Company shall deliver to such Holder at the office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose pursuant to Section 10.2 of the Base Indenture, (i) a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock (if any) deliverable upon the conversion of such Separate Convertible Note or portion thereof as determined by the Company in accordance with the provisions of Sections 7.11 and 7.12 and (ii) a check or cash in respect of any fractional interest in respect of a share of Common Stock arising upon such conversion, calculated by the Company as provided in Section 7.04. The cash, and, if applicable, a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock into which the Separate Convertible Notes are converted (and cash in lieu of fractional shares) shall be delivered to a converting Holder after satisfaction of the requirements for conversion set forth above, in accordance with this Section 7.03 and Sections 7.11 and, if applicable, 7.12.
                
(c)       Each conversion shall be deemed to have been effected as to any such Separate Convertible Note (or portion thereof) on the date on which the requirements set forth above in this Article 7 have been satisfied as to such Separate Convertible Note (or portion thereof) (the ""), and the Person in whose name any certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock shall be issuable upon such conversion shall be deemed to have become on said date the holder of record of the shares represented thereby; that any such surrender on any date when the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed shall constitute the Person in whose name the certificates are to be issued as the record holder thereof for all purposes on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open, but such conversion shall be at the Applicable Conversion Rate in effect on the Conversion Date.
Conversion Date
provided
                
(d)       Any Separate Convertible Note or portion thereof surrendered for conversion during the period from the close of business on the Record Date for any Interest Payment Date to the close of business on the applicable Interest Payment Date shall be accompanied by payment, in immediately available funds or other funds acceptable to the Company, of an amount equal to
the interest otherwise payable on such Interest Payment Date on the principal amount being converted; that no such payment need be made (1) if a Holder converts its Separate Convertible Notes in connection with a Fundamental Change and the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the Business Day immediately succeeding the corresponding Interest Payment Date, (2) with respect to any conversion on or following the Record Date immediately preceding the Maturity Date or (3) to the extent of any Defaulted Interest, if any Defaulted Interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Separate Convertible Note. Except as otherwise provided above in this Article 7, no payment or other adjustment shall be made for interest accrued on any Separate Convertible Note converted or for dividends on any shares issued upon the conversion of such Separate Convertible Note as provided in this Article 7. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of Separate Convertible Notes submitted for conversion in connection with a Fundamental Change, such Separate Convertible Notes shall continue to represent the right to receive the Additional Cash Merger Shares, if any, payable pursuant to Section 7.12, until such Additional Cash Merger Shares are so paid.
provided
                
(e)       Upon the conversion of an interest in a Global Convertible Note, the Trustee (or other Conversion Agent appointed by the Company), or the custodian at the direction of the Trustee (or other Conversion Agent appointed by the Company), shall make a notation on such Global Convertible Note as to the reduction in the principal amount represented thereby. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of any conversions of Separate Convertible Notes effected through any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee.
                
(f)       Upon the conversion of a Separate Convertible Note, the accrued but unpaid interest attributable to the period from the issue date of the Separate Convertible Note to the Conversion Date, with respect to the converted Separate Convertible Note, shall not be deemed canceled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full to the Holder thereof through delivery of cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock (together with the cash payment, if any in lieu of fractional shares) in exchange for the Separate Convertible Note being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof.
                
(g)       In case any Separate Convertible Note of a denomination greater than $1,000 shall be surrendered for partial conversion, and subject to Section 3.3 of the Base Indenture, the Company shall execute and upon receipt of such Separate Convertible Note or Separate Convertible Notes the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of the Separate Convertible Note so surrendered, without charge to the Holder, a new Separate Convertible Note or Separate Convertible Notes in authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the surrendered Separate Convertible Note.
                
Section 7.04No fractional shares of Common Stock or scrip certificates representing fractional shares shall be issued upon conversion of Separate Convertible Notes. If more than one Separate Convertible Note shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares that shall be issuable upon conversion shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of
.  Cash Payments in Lieu of Fractional Shares.
the Separate Convertible Notes (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted hereby) so surrendered and the aggregate sum of all Daily Settlement Amounts for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Note Observation Period (and not in respect of each Daily Settlement Amount nor some portion of the Daily Settlement Amounts for one or some portion of the 20 Trading Days during the Note Observation Period). If any fractional share of Common Stock would be issuable upon the conversion of any Separate Convertible Note or Separate Convertible Notes, the Company shall make an adjustment and payment therefor in cash to the Holder of Separate Convertible Notes at a price equal to the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the last day of the Note Observation Period.
                
Section 7.05The initial Conversion Rate for the Convertible Notes is 15.4332 shares of Common Stock per each $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes, subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 7.06 and 8.13 (herein called the "").
.  Conversion Rate.
Conversion Rate
                
Section 7.06The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time as follows:
.  Adjustments of Conversion Rate.
                
(a)       If the Company issues Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on its Common Stock to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock, or if the Company effects a share split or share combination, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
                
Any adjustment made pursuant to this paragraph (a) shall become effective as of the open of business on (x) the Ex-Dividend Date or (y) the date on which such split or combination becomes effective, as applicable. If any dividend or distribution described in this paragraph (a) is declared but not so paid or made, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
                
(b)       If the Company distributes to all holders of its Common Stock any rights, warrants or options entitling them for a period of not more than 45 days after the date of distribution thereof to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock, in any case at an exercise price per share of Common Stock less than the Closing Price of the Company's Common Stock on the Business Day immediately preceding the time of announcement of such distribution, the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
                
For purposes of this paragraph (b), in determining whether any rights, warrants or options entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock at less than the applicable Closing Price of the Common Stock, and in determining the aggregate exercise or conversion price payable for such Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights, warrants or options and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Company. If any right, warrant or option described in this paragraph (b) is not exercised or converted prior to the expiration of the exercisability or convertibility thereof, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such right, warrant or option had not been so issued.
                
(c)       If the Company distributes shares of capital stock, evidences of indebtedness or other assets or property of the Company to all holders of its Common Stock, excluding:
                
then the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
                
An adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph shall become effective as of the open of business on the ex-dividend date for such distribution.
                
If the Company distributes to all holders of its Common Stock capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit (""), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately following the 10th Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off shall be increased based on the following formula:
Spin-Off
                
An adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph will occur at the close of business on the 10th Trading Day from and including the effective date of the Spin-Off; provided that in respect of any conversion within the 10 Trading Days following the effective date of any Spin-Off, references within this paragraph (c) to 10 Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the effective date of such Spin-Off and the conversion date in determining the Applicable Conversion Rate.
                
If any such dividend or distribution described in this paragraph (c) is declared but not paid or made, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
                
(d)       If any regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution made to all or substantially all holders of the Company's Common Stock during any quarterly fiscal period does not equal $0.30 per share (the ""), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
Initial Dividend Threshold
                
If the denominator of the foregoing fraction is less than $1.00 (including a negative amount) then in lieu of any adjustment under this Section 7.06(d), the Company shall make adequate provision so that each Holder of Convertible Notes shall have the right to receive upon conversion, in addition to the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder converted such Convertible Notes on the Ex-Dividend Date.
                
The Initial Dividend Threshold is subject to adjustment in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Conversion Rate, that no adjustment will be made to
provided
the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate under this Section 7.06(d)
                
(e)       If the Company pays any cash dividend or distribution that is not a regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
                
The Initial Dividend Threshold is subject to adjustment in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Conversion Rate; that no adjustment shall be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate under this Section 7.06(e).
provided
                
An adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to Sections 7.06(d) or 7.06(e) shall become effective as of the open of business on the ex-dividend date for such dividend or distribution. If any dividend or distribution described in Section 7.06(d) or 7.06(e) is declared but not so paid or made, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. If the denominator of the foregoing fraction is less than $1.00 (including a negative amount), then in lieu of any adjustment under this Section 7.06(e), the Company shall make adequate provision so that each Holder of Convertible Notes shall have the right to receive upon conversion, in addition to the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder converted such Convertible Notes on the Ex-Dividend Date.
                
(f)       If the Company or any of its subsidiaries makes a payment in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer for the Company's Common Stock to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of the Company's Common Stock exceeds the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer, the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
                
If the application of the foregoing formula would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made.
                
Any adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to this Section 7.06(f) shall become effective on the second day immediately following the date such tender offer or exchange offer expires. If the Company or one of its subsidiaries is obligated to purchase the Common Stock pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer but is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchase or all such purchases are rescinded, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made.
                
All required calculations will be made to the nearest cent or 1/1000th of a share, as the case may be.
                
(g)       If the Company has in effect a rights plan while any Convertible Notes remain outstanding, Holders of Separate Convertible Notes shall receive, upon a conversion of Separate Convertible Notes, in addition to Common Stock, if any, rights under the Company's shareholder rights agreement unless, prior to conversion, the rights have expired, terminated or been redeemed or unless the rights have separated from the Common Stock. If the rights provided for in the rights plan adopted by the Company have separated from the Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the applicable shareholder rights agreement so that Holders of Convertible Notes would not be entitled to receive any rights in respect of any shares of Common Stock delivered upon a conversion of Separate Convertible Notes, the Conversion Rate
shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company had distributed, to all holders of Common Stock, capital stock, evidences of indebtedness or other assets or property pursuant to Section 7.06(c) above, subject to readjustment upon the subsequent expiration, termination or redemption of the rights.
                
(h)       In addition to the adjustments pursuant to Sections 7.06(a) through 7.06(f) above, the Company may increase the Conversion Rate in order to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of its Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of capital stock (or rights to acquire the Company's Common Stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes. The Company may also, from time to time, to the extent permitted by applicable law, increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period if the Company has determined that such increase would be in its best interests. If the Company makes such determination, it shall be conclusive and the Company shall mail to Holders of the Convertible Notes a notice of the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect at least 15 days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect in accordance with applicable law.
                
(i)       The Company shall not make any adjustment to the Conversion Rate if Holders of the Convertible Notes participate in the dividend, distribution or transaction that would otherwise result in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate at the same time as holders of the Common Stock and as if such Holders of Convertible Notes owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to a fraction the numerator of which is the product of the Conversion Rate in effect on the Ex-Dividend Date or effective date for the relevant dividend, distribution or transaction, the aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes held by such Holder and the denominator of which is one thousand ($1,000).
and
                
(j)       Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in addition to the other events set forth herein on account of which no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made, the Conversion Rate shall not be adjusted for:
                
Section 7.08The Company shall provide, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock to provide for the conversion of the Convertible Notes as required by this Supplemental Indenture No.1 from time to time as such Convertible Notes are presented for conversion.
.  Reservation of Shares; Shares to Be Fully Paid; Compliance with Government Requirements; Listing of Common Stock.
                
The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock which may be issued upon conversion of Convertible Notes shall upon issue be fully paid and non-assessable by the Company and free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issue thereof.
                
The Company covenants that, if any shares of Common Stock to be provided for the purpose of conversion of Convertible Notes hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority under any federal or state law before such shares may be validly issued upon conversion, the Company shall, as expeditiously as possible secure such registration or approval, as the case may be.
                
The Company further covenants that, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on The New York Stock Exchange or any other national or regional securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Company shall, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes; that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Company to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Convertible Notes in accordance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture No.1, the Company covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time
provided
                
Section 7.09The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to determine the Applicable Conversion Rate or whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Applicable Conversion Rate, or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental indenture provided to be employed, in making the same. The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any capital stock, other securities or other assets or property, which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the conversion of any Convertible Note; and the Trustee and any other Conversion Agent make no representations with respect thereto. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be responsible for any failure of the Company or the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock or stock certificates or other securities or property or cash upon the surrender of any Convertible Note for the purpose of conversion or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company or the Company contained in this Article 7. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any responsibility to determine the correctness of any provisions contained in any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to Section 7.06 relating either to the kind or amount of shares of capital stock or other securities or other assets or property (including cash) receivable by Holders upon the conversion of their Convertible Notes after any event referred to in such Section 7.06 or to any adjustment to be made with respect thereto, but, subject to the provisions of Section 6.1 of the Base Indenture, may accept as conclusive evidence of the correctness of any such provisions, and shall be protected in relying upon, the Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel (which the Company shall be obligated to file with the Trustee prior to the execution of any such supplemental indenture) with respect thereto.
.  Responsibility of Trustee.
                
Section 7.10In case:
.  Notice to Holders Prior to Certain Actions.
                
(a)       the Company shall declare a dividend (or any other distribution) on the Common Stock that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 7.06; or
                
(b)       the Company shall authorize the granting to the holders of all or substantially all of the Common Stock of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any share of any class or any other rights or warrants;
                
(c)       of any reclassification or reorganization of the Common Stock (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, or a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value), or of any consolidation, combination, merger or share exchange to which the Company or the Company is a party and for which approval of any shareholders of the Company is required, or of the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
                
(d)       of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company,
                
the Company shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and to be mailed to each Holder of Convertible Notes at its address appearing on the Security Register provided for in Section 3.5 of the Base Indenture, as promptly as possible but in any event at least 10 calendar days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend, distribution or rights or warrants, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution or rights are to be determined, or (y) the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up is expected to become effective or occur, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such dividend, distribution, reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
                
Section 7.11(a) Upon conversion of any Separate Convertible Notes, subject to Sections 7.01, 7.03 and this Section 7.11, the Company shall satisfy its obligation upon conversion by payment and delivery of cash, shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as described below, for each $1,000 aggregate principal amount of Separate Convertible Notes tendered for conversion in accordance with their terms.
.  Settlement Upon Conversion.
                
(b)       Upon conversion of Separate Convertible Notes, the Company shall deliver, in respect of each $1,000 principal amount of Separate Convertible Notes tendered for conversion in accordance with their terms:
                
(c)       The " ," for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Note Observation Period, shall consist of:
Note
Daily Settlement Amount
                
(d)       The "" for each 20 consecutive Trading Days during the Note Observation Period, shall be one-twentieth of the product of (i) the Applicable Conversion Rate and (ii) the Daily VWAP of the Company's Common Stock on such day.
Daily Conversion Value
                
(e)       The Note Daily Settlement Amount for each of the twenty Trading Days during the Note Observation Period and any amount in cash to be delivered in lieu of any fractional shares of Common Stock shall be determined by the Company promptly after the end of the Note Observation Period and notified in writing to the Trustee.
                
(f)       By the close of business on the Business Day prior to the first Scheduled Trading Day of the Note Observation Period, the Company may specify a percentage of each Note Daily Share Amount that will be settled in cash (the "") and shall notify the Holder of such Cash Percentage through written notice to the Trustee (the ""). With respect to any Convertible Notes that are converted on or after the 22nd Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date, the Cash Percentage that the Company specifies for the corresponding Note Observation Period shall apply to all such conversions. If the Company elects to specify a Cash Percentage, (x) the amount of cash that the Company shall deliver in lieu of all or an applicable portion of the Note Daily Share Amount in respect of each Trading Day in the Note Observation Period shall equal the product of: (i) the Cash Percentage, (ii) the Note Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day (assuming for this purpose the Company has not specified a Cash Percentage), and (iii) the Daily VWAP for such Trading Day and (y) the number of shares of Common Stock deliverable in respect of each Trading Day in the Note Observation Period (in lieu of the full Note Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day) will be a percentage of the Note Daily Share Amount (assuming the Company has not specified a Cash Percentage) equal to 100% the Cash Percentage.
Cash Percentage
Cash Percentage Notice
minus
                
(g)       If the Company does not specify a Cash Percentage by the close of business on the Business Day prior to the first Scheduled Trading Day of the Note Observation Period, the Company shall settle 100% of the Note Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in the Note Observation Period with shares of Common Stock; , that the Company shall pay cash in lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable upon conversion of such Separate Convertible Note. The Company may, at its option, revoke any Cash Percentage Notice through written notice to the Trustee by the close of business on the Business Day prior to the first Scheduled Trading Day of the Note Observation Period.
provided, however
                
(h)       Payment of the cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 7.11(c) shall be made by the Company on the third Business Day immediately following the last Trading Day of the Note Observation Period to the Holder of a Separate Convertible Note surrendered for conversion, or such Holder's nominee or nominees, and the Company shall deliver to the Conversion Agent or to such Holder, or such Holder's nominee or nominees,
certificates or a book-entry transfer through the Depositary for the number of full shares of Common Stock, if any, to which such Holder shall be entitled.
                
(i)       Upon conversion of Separate Convertible Notes, the Holder shall deliver to the Company cash equal to the amount the Company is required to deduct or withhold under applicable law in connection with such conversion; , , that if the Holder does not deliver such cash, the Company may (or may instruct the Conversion Agent to) deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise deliverable to such Holder the amount required to be deducted and withheld under applicable law.
provided
however
                
(j)       If a Holder converts Separate Convertible Notes and the Company is required to deliver Common Stock, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of its Common Stock upon the conversion, if any, unless the tax is due because the Holder requests the Common Stock to be issued or delivered to a person other than the Holder, in which case the Holder shall pay that tax prior to receipt of such Common Stock.
                
Section 7.12(a) Subject to the provisions hereof, if a Holder elects to convert its Separate Convertible Notes in connection with a Cash Merger, the Company shall increase the Applicable Conversion Rate for the Separate Convertible Notes so surrendered for conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the "") as specified below; that the Additional Cash Merger Shares shall only be payable as set forth in this Section 7.12. A conversion of Separate Convertible Notes shall be deemed for these purposes to be "in connection with" such a Cash Merger if the Conversion Notice is received by the Conversion Agent from and after the effective date of the Fundamental Change until the second Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date corresponding to such Cash Merger.
.  Make-Whole Amount Upon a Cash Merger.
Additional Cash Merger Shares
provided
                
(b)   The number of Additional Cash Merger Shares shall be determined by reference to the table in clause (e) below and shall be based on the date on which the Cash Merger becomes effective (the "") and the price paid per share of Common Stock in connection with such Cash Merger (the ""). If the holders of Common Stock will receive only cash upon the conversion in connection with a Cash Merger, the Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Prices of the Company's Common Stock over the five Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day preceding the Effective Date.
Effective Date
Stock Price
                
(c)   The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the table below shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Convertible Notes is adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices shall equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, by a fraction, (i) the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and (ii) the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
multiplied
                
(d)       The number of Additional Cash Merger Shares shall be adjusted in the same manner and for the same events as the Conversion Rate is adjusted pursuant to Section 7.06.
                
(e)       The following table sets forth the Stock Price and number of Additional Cash Merger Shares to be added to the Conversion Rate per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes:
                
(f)       If the exact Stock Price and Effective Date are not set forth in the table above, then:
                
(g)       The Make-Whole Cap and Make-Whole Floor shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Convertible Notes is adjusted pursuant to Section 7.06. The adjusted Make-Whole Cap or Make-Whole Floor, as the case may be, shall equal the Make-Whole Cap or Make-Whole Floor, as the case may be, applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, by a fraction, (i) the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate
multiplied
immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the adjustment and (ii) the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
                
(h)       Notwithstanding anything in this Section 7.12 to the contrary, in no event shall the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes exceed 18.3655 per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 7.06.
                
Section 7.13 Except as otherwise specifically stated herein or in the Convertible Notes, all calculations to be made in respect of the Convertible Notes, including, but not limited to, the Applicable Conversion Rate, shall be the obligation of the Company. All calculations made by the Company or its agent as contemplated pursuant to the terms hereof and of the Convertible Notes shall be made in good faith and be final and binding on the Convertible Notes and the Holders of the Convertible Notes absent manifest error. The Company shall provide a schedule of calculations to the Trustee, and the Trustee shall be entitled to rely upon the accuracy of the calculations by the Company without independent verification. The Trustee shall forward calculations made by the Company to any Holder of Convertible Notes upon request.
.  
Calculations in Respect of Convertible Notes.
                
Section 7.14If the Company is a party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, reclassification or sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of its properties and assets, in each case pursuant to which all of the Common Stock is exchanged for cash, securities or other property, then at the effective time of such transaction, the Daily VWAP, each Daily Settlement Amount and each Daily Conversion Value shall be calculated based on the kind and amount of cash, securities or other property that a holder of such a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Applicable Conversion Rate would have received in such transaction. For purposes of the foregoing, where a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange involves a transaction that causes shares of Common Stock to be exchanged into the right to receive more than a single type of consideration based upon any form of shareholder election, such consideration shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make such an election.
.  Recapitalization, Reclassifications and Changes of Common Stock.
                
Section 8.01(a) Unless a Termination Event has occurred prior to the first Remarketing Date, the Company shall engage the Remarketing Agents, subject to the execution of a Remarketing Agreement and the satisfaction of the conditions set forth therein, for the Remarketing of the Convertible Notes pursuant to such Remarketing Agreement. The Company will, not later than 15 days prior to the first Remarketing Date, issue a press release with respect to the Remarketing and request that the Depositary or its nominee notify the Beneficial Owners or Depositary Participants holding Separate Convertible Notes, Corporate
.  Remarketing.
Units and Treasury Units of the Remarketing Date or Dates and the procedures to be followed in the Remarketing, including, in the case of a Failed Remarketing, the procedures that must be followed by a holder of Separate Convertible Notes if such holder wishes to exercise its Put Right or by a holder of Convertible Notes if such Holder elects not to exercise its Put Right.
                
(b)       Each holder of Separate Convertible Notes may elect to have Separate Convertible Notes held by such holder remarketed in any Remarketing. A holder making such an election must, pursuant to the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, notify the Custodial Agent and deliver such Separate Convertible Notes to the Custodial Agent prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date (but no earlier than the Interest Payment Date immediately preceding such first day). Any such notice and delivery may not be conditioned upon the level at which the Reset Rate is established in the Remarketing. Any such notice and delivery may be withdrawn prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement. Any such notice and delivery not withdrawn by such time will be irrevocable with respect to each Remarketing to occur on a Remarketing Date. Pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, promptly after 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the first Remarketing Date, the Custodial Agent, based on the notices and deliveries received by it prior to such time, shall notify the Remarketing Agents of the aggregate principal amount of Separate Convertible Notes tendered for Remarketing and shall cause such Separate Convertible Notes to be presented to the Remarketing Agents. Pursuant and subject to Section 5.02 of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, Convertible Notes included in Corporate Units will be deemed tendered for Remarketing and will be remarketed in accordance with the terms of the Remarketing Agreement and the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement.
                
(c)       The right of each holder of Remarketed Convertible Notes to have such Convertible Notes remarketed and sold on any Remarketing Date shall be subject to the conditions that (i) a Termination Event has not occurred prior to the first Remarketing Date, (ii) the Remarketing Agents are able to find a purchaser or purchasers for Remarketed Convertible Notes at the Remarketing Price based on the Reset Rate and (iii) the purchaser or purchasers of the Remarketed Convertible Notes deliver the purchase price therefor to the designated Remarketing Agent as and when required.
                
(d)       Neither the Trustee, the Company nor the Remarketing Agents shall be obligated in any case to provide funds to make payment upon tender of Convertible Notes for remarketing.
                
(e)       The Remarketing Agent shall use its reasonable efforts to remarket the Remarketed Convertible Notes at the Remarketing Price, subject to the execution of a Remarketing Agreement and the satisfaction of the conditions set forth therein, on the first Remarketing Date and, unless a Successful Remarketing occurs on such first Remarketing Date, the second Remarketing Date. It is understood and agreed that Remarketing on any Remarketing Date will be considered successful and no further attempts will be made if the resulting proceeds are at least equal to the Remarketing Price.
                
Section 8.02(a) In connection with a Remarketing, the Remarketing Agents shall determine the Reset Rate (rounded to the nearest one-thousandth (0.001) of one percent per annum).
.  Reset Rate.
                
(b)       Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Reset Rate shall in no event exceed the maximum rate permitted by applicable law.
                
(c)       In the event of a Failed Remarketing on each of the Remarketing Dates, or if no Convertible Notes are included in Corporate Units and none of the holders of the Separate Convertible Notes elect to have their Convertible Notes remarketed in any Remarketing, the applicable interest rate on the Convertible Notes will not be reset and will continue to be the Initial Interest Rate.
                
(d)       In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the Initial Interest Rate may be reset on the Remarketing Settlement Date to the Reset Rate as determined by the Remarketing Agents under the Remarketing Agreement, and the Company shall issue a press release promptly after such Successful Remarketing containing such Reset Rate and publish such information on its website.
                
(e)       In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the Company shall issue a press release and cause a notice of such Failed Remarketing to be published on its website (with a copy of such notice to be provided to the Purchase Contract Agent) before 9:00 a.m. New York City time on the Business Day immediately following such Failed Remarketing.
                
Section 8.03If, by 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second Remarketing Date, the Remarketing Agents are unable to remarket all of the Remarketed Convertible Notes at or above the Remarketing Price pursuant to the terms and conditions hereof and of the Remarketing Agreement, a Failed Remarketing shall be deemed to have occurred.
.  Failed Remarketing.
                
Section 8.04(a) Subject to paragraph (b) hereof, if there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to the end of the second Remarketing Date, holders of Convertible Notes will, subject to this Section 8.02, have the right (the "") to require the Company to purchase such Convertible Notes on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, at a price per Convertible Note to be purchased equal to the principal amount of the applicable Convertible Note (the ""). For the avoidance of doubt, Holders of record on the Record Date related to the Interest Payment Date falling on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date will receive accrued and unpaid interest on such Interest Payment Date.
.  Put Right.
Put Right
Put Price
                
(b)       The Put Right of holders of Convertible Notes that are part of Corporate Units will be deemed to be automatically exercised unless such holders (1) prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, provide written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent of their intention to settle the related Purchase Contract with separate cash, and (2) on or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on such Business Day, deliver to the Collateral Agent $1,000 in cash per Purchase Contract, in each
case pursuant to the terms and conditions of Section 5.02(b)(iii) of the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement with respect to such settlement, and such holders shall be deemed to have elected to apply the proceeds of the Put Right of the Convertible Notes underlying such Convertible Notes equal to the Purchase Price against such holders' obligations to pay the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under the Purchase Contracts in full satisfaction of such holders' obligations under the Purchase Contracts.
                
(c)       The Put Right of a holder of a Separate Convertible Note shall only be exercisable upon delivery of a notice to the Trustee by such holder on or prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. On or prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee immediately available funds in an amount sufficient to pay, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the aggregate Put Price of all Separate Convertible Notes with respect to which a holder has exercised a Put Right. In exchange for any Separate Convertible Notes surrendered pursuant to the Put Right, the Trustee shall then distribute such amount to the holders of such Separate Convertible Notes.
                
Section 9.01The Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture No.1, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture No.1 shall be deemed part of the Base Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
.  Ratification of Indenture.
                
Section 9.02The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture No.1.
.  Trustee Not Responsible For Recitals.
                
Section 9.03THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 1 AND EACH CONVERTIBLE NOTE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE CONTRACTS MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW PROVISIONS THEREOF TO THE EXTENT A DIFFERENT LAW WOULD GOVERN AS A RESULT.
.  New York Law to Govern.
                
Section 9.04In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture No.1 or in the Convertible Notes shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, then, to the extent permitted by law, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture No.1 or of the Convertible Notes, but this Supplemental Indenture No.1 and the Convertible Notes shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.
.  Separability.
                
Section 9.05This Supplemental Indenture No.1 may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
.  Counterparts.
                
Section 9.06Holders, as such, will not have any rights as shareholders of the Company, including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Company's Common Stock.
.  No Shareholder Rights For Holders.
                
Section 10.01The Company agrees, and by acceptance of a Corporate Unit or a Separate Convertible Note, each holder will be deemed to have agreed (1) for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes to treat the acquisition of a Corporate Unit as the acquisition of the Convertible Note and the Purchase Contract constituting the Corporate Unit and (2) to treat the Convertible Note or Separate Convertible Note, as the case may be, as indebtedness for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes.
.  Tax Treatment.
                
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture No.1 to be duly executed, as of the day and year first written above.
                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture No.1 to be duly executed, as of the day and year first written above.

                
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (""), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
                
THE STANLEY WORKS., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Connecticut (hereinafter called the "", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum as set forth in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Convertible Note attached hereto, on May 17, 2012 at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall
Company
be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, and to pay interest, quarterly in arrears on February 17, May 17, August 17 and November 17 of each year, commencing August 17, 2007, on said principal sum at said office or agency, in like coin or currency, at the annual rate of 3-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, minus 3.500% (but in no event less than 0%), from and including March 20, 2007, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for, to but excluding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, and thereafter quarterly in arrears on February 17, May 17, August 17 and November 17 of each year, commencing August 17, 2010 at the Reset Rate, or if there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, at the Initial Interest Rate. This Security shall bear interest, to the extent permitted by law, on any overdue principal, premium, if any and interest at the Initial Interest Rate, unless a Successful Remarketing shall have occurred, in which case interest on such amounts shall accrue at the Reset Rate from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date, in each case, compounded quarterly. The Reset Rate, if any, shall be established pursuant to the terms of the Supplemental Indenture No.1 and the Remarketing Agreement. The amount of interest payable for any Interest Period will be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in the Interest Period divided by 360.
                
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Convertible Note set forth on the reverse hereof, including, without limitation, provisions giving the Holder of this Convertible Note the right to convert this Convertible Note into cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock, on the terms and subject to the limitations referred to on the reverse hereof and as more fully specified in the Supplemental Indenture No.1. Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
                
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Convertible Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the within-mentioned Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
                
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: 
                      
                
This Convertible Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series of Securities under an Indenture (the ""), dated as of Novermber 1, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee (the "") to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture No.1, dated as of March 20, 2007, between the Company and the Trustee (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture so supplemented, the ""), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Convertible Notes and of the terms upon which the Convertible Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Convertible Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof.
Securities
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture No.1
Indenture
                
All terms used in this Convertible Note that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Indenture.
                
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.02 of the Supplemental Indenture No.1 or clauses (7) or (8) of Section 5.1 of the Base Indenture) occurs and is continuing, the principal of, premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on all Convertible Notes may be declared to be due and payable by either the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes then outstanding, and, upon said declaration the same shall be immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.02 of the Supplemental Indenture No. 1 occurs, for the first 120 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default, the sole remedy for such an Event of Default shall consist exclusively of a Holder's right to receive an extension fee on the Convertible Notes in an amount equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes. On the 120th day after such Event of Default (if the Event of Default relating to the reporting obligations is not cured or waived prior to such 120th day), the principal of, premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on all Convertible Notes may be declared to be due and payable by either the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes then outstanding, and, upon said declaration the same shall be immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in clauses (7) or (8) of Section 5.1 of the Base Indenture occurs and is continuing, then the principal of and premium, if any, and interest accrued and unpaid on all the Convertible Notes shall be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of Convertible Notes.
                
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate
principal amount of the Convertible Notes at the time outstanding, to execute supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Convertible Notes, subject to exceptions set forth in Section 9.2 of the Base Indenture. Subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes at the time outstanding may, on behalf of the Holders of all of the Convertible Notes, waive certain past defaults or Events of Default.
                
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Convertible Note or of the Indenture shall impair, as among the Company and the Holder of the Convertible Notes, the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, on and interest on this Convertible Note at the place, at the respective times, at the rate and in the coin or currency herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
                
Interest on the Convertible Notes shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in the Interest Period divided by 360.
                
The Convertible Notes are issuable in fully-registered form, without coupons, in minimum denominations of $1,000 principal amount and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. At the office or agency of the Company referred to on the face hereof, and in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture, without payment of any service charge but with payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration or exchange of Convertible Notes, Convertible Notes may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes of any other authorized denominations.
                
The Convertible Notes are not subject to redemption.
                
Upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, Holders of Convertible Notes shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Convertible Notes pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Supplemental Indenture No.1.
                
Subject to and in compliance with the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder hereof shall have the right to exchange each $1,000 principal amount of this Convertible Note into cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock as provided in Article 7 of the Supplemental Indenture No.1.
                
In the event the Holder surrenders this Convertible Note for conversion in connection with a Cash Merger, the Company will increase the Applicable
Conversion Rate by the Additional Cash Merger Shares as and when provided in the Supplemental Indenture No.1.
                
No recourse for the payment of the principal of (including the Repurchase Price upon repurchase pursuant to Article 3 of the Supplemental Indenture No.1) or any premium, if any, or interest on this Convertible Note, or for any claim based hereon or otherwise in respect hereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture (including the Supplemental Indenture No.1) or any supplemental indenture or in this Convertible Note, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, shareholder, partner, member, manager, employee, agent, officer, director or subsidiary, as such, past, present or future, of the Company, the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries or of any successor thereto, either directly or through the Company, the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries or of any successor thereto, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as consideration for, the execution of the Supplemental Indenture No.1 and the issue of this Convertible Note.
                
Pursuant to Section 8.04 of the Supplemental Indenture No.1, if there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to the end of the second Remarketing Date, Holders of Convertible Notes will have the right (the "") to require the Company to purchase such Convertible Notes on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in the case of Separate Convertible Notes upon a notice to the Trustee on or prior to the second Business Day prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, at a price per Convertible Note to be purchased equal to the principal amount of the Convertible Note (the "").
Put Right
Put Price
                
The Company agrees, and by acceptance of a Corporate Unit or a Separate Convertible Note, each holder of a Convertible Note and each holder of a Separate Convertible Note will be deemed to have agreed (1) for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes to treat the acquisition of a Corporate Unit as the acquisition of a Convertible Note and the Purchase Contract constituting the Corporate Unit and (2) to treat the Convertible Note or Separate Convertible Note, as the case may be, as indebtedness for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes.
                
THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW PROVISIONS THEREOF TO THE EXTENT A DIFFERENT LAW WOULD GOVERN AS A RESULT.
                
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription of the face of this Convertible Note, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
                
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
TO:         THE STANLEY WORKS                 The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
                
The undersigned registered owner of this Convertible Note hereby irrevocably exercises the option to convert this Convertible Note, or the portion thereof (which is $1,000 or a multiple thereof) below designated, into cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock, in accordance with the terms of the Supplemental Indenture No.1 referred to in this Convertible Note, and directs that the shares of Common Stock, if any, issuable and deliverable upon such conversion, together with any check in payment for cash, if any, payable upon conversion or for fractional shares and any Convertible Notes representing any unconverted principal amount hereof, be issued and delivered to the registered holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture (including the Supplemental Indenture No.1). If shares or any portion of this Convertible Note not converted are to be issued in the name of a person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will provide the appropriate information below and pay all transfer taxes payable with respect thereto. Any amount required to be paid by the undersigned on account of interest accompanies this Convertible Note.
Dated: ______________________
                
Fill in the registration of shares of Common Stock, if any, if to be issued, and Convertible Notes if to be delivered, and the person to whom cash and payment for fractional shares is to be made, if to be made, other than to and in the name of the registered holder:
Please print name and address
______________________________
(Name)
______________________________
(Street Address)
______________________________
(City, State and Zip Code)
Principal amount to be converted (if less than all):
$_____________________________
Social Security or Other Taxpayer Identification Number:
______________________________
NOTICE: The signature on this Conversion Notice must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Convertible Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
TO:         THE STANLEY WORKS                 The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
                
The undersigned registered owner of this Convertible Note hereby irrevocably acknowledges receipt of a notice from The Stanley Works (the "") regarding the right of Holders to elect to require the Company to repurchase the Convertible Notes and requests and instructs the Company to repay the entire principal amount of this Convertible Note, or the portion thereof (which is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, in cash, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture (including the Supplemental Indenture No.1) at the price of 100% of such entire principal amount or portion thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, to the registered holder hereof. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture. The Convertible Notes shall be repurchased by the Company as of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Indenture.
Company
                
NOTICE: The signatures of the Holder(s) hereof must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Convertible Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. Convertible Note Certificate Number (if applicable): ____________________________
                
Principal amount to be repurchased (if less than all, must be $1,000 or whole multiples thereof): ______________________
Social Security or Other Taxpayer Identification Number: ________________
Dated: ________________
agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
Date:      
                         
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
                
For value received ________________________________________ hereby sell(s) assign(s) and transfer(s) unto ___________________________________ (Please insert social security or other Taxpayer Identification Number of assignee) ___________ shares of Common Stock, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints ______________________________________ attorney to transfer said shares of Common Stock on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Date: 
                        
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Securities Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Note Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. ASSIGNMENT
The initial principal amount of this Convertible Note is $0. The following increases or decreases in a part of this Convertible Note have been made:


                
The undersigned, on behalf of The Stanley Works, a Connecticut corporation (the "Company"), acting pursuant to resolutions adopted by the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") on February 21, 2007 (the "February Resolutions") and resolutions adopted by the Pricing Committee (as defined in the February Resolutions) on March 15, 2007 (the "Pricing Committee Resolutions"), hereby establish a series of securities (the "Securities") by means of this Officers' Certificate. Unless otherwise specified, capitalized terms used but not defined in this Officers' Certificate shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the indenture (the "Initial Indenture"), dated as of November 1, 2002, as supplemented by a supplemental indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Initial Indenture, the "Indenture"), dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee (the "Trustee") to JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. Pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Indenture and pursuant to the February Resolutions and the Pricing Committee Resolutions, there is hereby established a series of Securities which, in addition to the terms provided in the Indenture, shall have the following terms:
Annex A

TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS, IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE BOARD RESOLUTIONS SET FORTH IN AN OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE ESTABLISHING THE TERMS OF THIS NOTE.
        
THE STANLEY WORKS, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Connecticut (herein referred to as the "Company", which terms includes any successor Person under the Indenture), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or its registered assigns, the principal sum of TWO HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS on March 15, 2010 (the "Stated Maturity"), and to pay interest on said principal sum semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year commencing September 15, 2007 (each an "Interest Payment Date") at the rate of 5.00% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. Interest on the Securities of this series will accrue from March 20, 2007 ("the Issue Date"), to the first Interest Payment Date, and thereafter will accrue from the last Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for. In the event that any Interest Payment Date or the date of Stated Maturity is not a Business Day, then payment of interest, principal or premium, if any, payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or the date of Stated Maturity, as the case may be. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the March 1 or September 1, as the case may be (the "Regular Record Date"), immediately preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date, provided, however, that interest payable at Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is paid. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof.
        
The principal of and premium, if any, and each installment of interest on this Security will be made upon presentation at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York provided that the payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the persons entitled thereto or by wire transfer to an account designated by the person entitled thereto; and provided further that so long as the Securities of this series are registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company or its nominee all payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Security will be made in immediately available funds.
        
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Any capitalized term which is used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Indenture.
        
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to below by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
        
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed in its name by __________________ the __________________of the Company.
        
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
        
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), designated as its 5.00% Notes due 2010, all issued and to be issued under the Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2002 (herein, together with any amendments thereto, called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture) to JPMorgan Chase Bank, and reference is hereby made to the Indenture, including the Board Resolutions and Officer's Certificate filed with the Trustee on March 20, 2007, creating such issue for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
General Provisions
        
The provisions for defeasance of the entire Indebtedness of this Security upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture shall apply to the Securities.
        
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
        
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof by supplemental indenture and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture by the Company (when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution) and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the securities of all series then Outstanding to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all securities of such series, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor on in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
        
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series at the time Outstanding in respect of which an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, the Trustee for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, and no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series at the time Outstanding in respect of which an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof, any premium, or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
        No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
        
The Securities of this issue are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and in integral multiples thereof.
        
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this issue are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this issue and of like tenor and of authorized denominations, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
        
The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
        
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
        
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture and in the Officer's Certificate establishing the terms of the Securities of this issue.
Change of Control
        If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, Holders shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of the Holders' Securities pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"). In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will offer payment in cash equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities repurchased, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall mail a notice to the Holders describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures and described in such notice. The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of the Securities, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions of the Securities by virtue of such conflicts.
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
For purposes of the foregoing, the following definitions are applicable:
taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) other than the Company or one of the Company's Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as defined above) becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding total voting power of all shares of the Company's capital stock entitled to vote generally in elections of directors; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's board of directors are not Continuing Directors.
Further Issues
        The Company may from time to time, without notice to or consent of the Holders of the Securities, issue additional securities of the same tenor, coupon and other items as the Securities, so that such additional securities and the Securities will form a single series of debt securities under the Indenture.
Signature Guarantee: 
                                       


