FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20081217172417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
In a press release attached to this 8-K, the Company announced executive management changes. As reflected in the release, James M. Loree, who is currently the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has been elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, effective January 1, 2009, and Donald J. McIlnay, Senior Vice President and President - Industrial Tools Group and Emerging Markets has decided to retire at the end of 2008. Donald Allan, Jr. has been elected to serve as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January 1, 2009. Mr. Allan, who is 44, joined the Company in 1999 as Director of Financial Reporting and was named Corporate Controller in 2000 and a Corporate Vice President in 2002. He has been an executive officer of the Company since October 24, 2006. Mr. Allan is a participant in the Company's Special Severance Plan.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not applicable (b) Not applicable (c) Not applicable (d) Exhibits 99.1 Press release dated December 17, 2008.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
New Britain, Connecticut, December 17, 2008
...
The Stanley Works today announced that its board of directors has elected the following individuals to serve in new roles within the company's executive management team. The changes will take effect on January 1, 2009.
(NYSE: SWK)
John F. Lundgren, Chairman and CEO, stated "Jim Loree is a recognized and highly regarded leader both inside and outside of Stanley. His proven ability to anticipate business trends and drive the disciplined execution necessary to respond to those trends will be a tremendous asset in navigating through the times ahead. During his tenure as CFO we have more than doubled the revenues of the company, secured our strong investment grade credit rating and substantially expanded our security business. We are fortunate that Jim's leadership skills and commercial instincts will now be further leveraged across the entire Stanley organization."
Mr. Lundgren continued, "Don Allan's technical skills, business acumen, proven leadership and objectivity make him an ideal choice to succeed Jim. Don has been a tremendous asset to our finance organization and Jim and I have come to rely on him for his judgment and thoughtfulness on important issues facing Stanley."
In addition to the promotions noted above, Donald J. McIlnay, Senior Vice President and President - -Industrial Tools Group and Emerging Markets has decided to retire at the end of 2008.
Mr. Lundgren stated, "Don McIlnay has been an outstanding business leader for our company since he joined Stanley in 1999. As a demonstration of his exceptional service to the company, Don postponed an earlier planned retirement to play a major role in our growth initiatives. He will be missed as a friend and trusted colleague but the increased time with family and friends and reduced global travel burden is well deserved."
Additional Information About The Stanley Works
The Stanley Works, an S&P 500 company with 2007 revenues of $4.4 billion, is a diversified worldwide supplier of tools and engineered solutions for professional, industrial, construction and do-it-yourself use, and security solutions for commercial applications. For over 165 years, the Stanleybrand has been synonymous with high quality, reliable products. Its well-known tool and storage brands include Stanley as well as FatMax, Facom, Bostitch, Jensen, Mac, Proto, La Bounty, Vidmar, and InnerSpace. Security Solutions brands include Stanley, Best, National, HSM, Sonitrol, Blick and Frisco Bay. The company employs approximately 20,000 associates. Additional information about The Stanley Works can be found at www.stanleyworks.com.
Investor Contacts:
Corbin Walburger  VP, Business Development (860) 827-3937 cwalburger@stanleyworks.com
Kate White  Director, Investor Relations (860) 827- 3833 kwhite@stanleyworks.com
Media Contact:
Tim Perra  Director, Global Communications (860)826-3260 tperra@stanleyworks.com
The Stanley Works corporate press releases are available in the Investor Relations section of the company's Internet web site at www.stanleyworks.com.


