FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20081021092854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 21, 2008 The Stanley Works issued a press release announcing third quarter 2008 results and updating full year 2008 guidance. The press release and financial information attached thereto are both furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not applicable (b) Not applicable (c) Not applicable (d) Exhibits 99.1 Press release dated October 21, 2008. 99.1 Financial statements contained in The Stanley Works' October 21, 2008 press release.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Stanley Works Reports 3Q 2008 Results
Free Cash Flow Increases 16%; Generates $0.98 Of Diluted EPS From Continuing Operations
... The Stanley Works announced third quarter 2008 financial results today. Highlights are summarized below:
New Britain, Connecticut, October 21, 2008
(NYSE: SWK)
Segment Results
Segment results are summarized below:
John F. Lundgren, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated: "Stanley's solid performance in arguably the most difficult global economic conditions in recent memory is directly attributable to the diversity of the company's improved portfolio of businesses and end markets, as well as the intensity and commitment of our experienced management team. We have been preparing to operate successfully during a recession of unknown duration for quite some time now. Our priorities are to preserve our earnings base and strong cash flow during this period through a sharp focus on the key operating levers of cost management and asset efficiency. That approach, combined with our long-standing conservative financial posture, will enable us to favorably differentiate the company as we proceed through this down cycle and position us well to meet our long-term financial objectives as global economic conditions improve."
Management noted that its most recent full year 2008 earnings guidance, as communicated within its second quarter earnings release, assumed a unit volume for the second half of 2008 that was approximately equal to the first half of the year. As a result of the slowing global economy and as evidenced by lower third quarter unit volume, the company now expects that second half volume declines will exceed those experienced during the first half of the year. Accordingly, full year 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is expected to approximate $3.75. Further, management is able to reaffirm its previous estimate of free cash flow of at or slightly below $500 million, or approximately 18% of the company's market capitalization as of Friday, October 17.
th
Acquisition Activity
Subsequent to the third quarter, the company completed the following acquisitions both of which were consistent with its stated growth strategy:
On October 1, 2008, the company purchased 100% of the shares of Gnrale de Protection ("GdP") from an ownership group comprised of TCR Industrial Partners and Intermediate Capital Group for 118 million euro (approximately $166 million). GdP, headquartered in Vitrolles, France, is a leading provider of audio and video security monitoring services, primarily for small and mid-sized businesses located in France and Belgium. GdP, with 2007 revenues totaling approximately 64 million euro ($87 million) represents Stanley's first significant expansion of its electronic security platform in continental Europe.
The transaction is expected to have no effect on 2008 earnings per share from continuing operations and have a modest accretive impact in 2009. The GdP purchase price represents multiples of 33x recurring monthly revenues ("RMR") and 1.8x revenues based on expected 2008 results.
In addition to GdP, on October 1, 2008, the company completed the purchase of Scan Modul for $20 million cash. Scan Modul, headquartered in Hillerod, Denmark, provides engineered healthcare storage equipment and services throughout Europe. The acquisition of Scan Modul expands the company's healthcare storage technology offering provided by its existing Innerspace business acquired in July 2007.
Mr. Lundgren commented that "given the current economic environment, Stanley plans to reduce its capital outlays associated with large acquisitions in the near term and will instead focus on maintaining targeted leverage required to retain its upper tier investment grade rating and on stock repurchase activity as conditions warrant. While I would not rule out larger transactions in the coming months, with the company trading at an enterprise value between 6X and 7X 2008 EBITDA, any such transaction would need to involve minimal capital consumption and/or be priced at levels lower than the private M&A multiples we have seen in the recent past. It is our view that it will take time for private multiples to adjust, thus creating a window of opportunity for redeployment of capital to stock repurchases in 2009".
The company will host a conference call with investors at 10:00am EST, Tuesday, October 21, 2008 to discuss quarterly results. The call is accessible by telephone at (800) 267-8424 (domestic) and (706) 634-0695 (international) and via the Internet at www.stanleyworks.com by selecting "Investor Relations". A slide presentation to accompany the call will be available at www.stanleyworks.com and will remain available after the call. A replay will also be available two hours after the call and can be accessed at (800) 642-1687 using the conference identification number 57411309.
Operating margin is defined as sales less cost of sales less SG&A. Management uses operating margin and its percentage of net sales as key measures to assess the performance of the company as a whole, as well as the related measures at the segment level.
Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital and capitalized software expenditures (reconciliation on pg. 9). Free cash flow does not reflect, among other things, deductions for mandatory debt service, other borrowing activity, discretionary dividends on the company's common stock and acquisitions. Organic sales growth is defined as total sales growth less sales of companies acquired in the past twelve months and less foreign currency impacts. The company believes these are important measures of its liquidity, of its ability to fund future growth and to provide a return to the shareowners, and of its sales performance.
The Stanley Works, an S&P 500 company, is a diversified worldwide supplier of tools and engineered solutions for professional, industrial, construction and do-it-yourself use, and security solutions for commercial applications. More information about The Stanley Works can be found at http://www.stanleyworks.com.
The Stanley Works corporate press releases are available on the company's Internet web site at http://wwwstanleyworks.com.
.
Statements in this press release, including but not limited to those regarding the Company's ability to: (i) deliver full year 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of approximately $3.75; (ii) deliver free cash flow at or slightly below $500 million; (iii) deliver a modestly accretive impact on 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations as a result of the GdP transaction; and (iv) retain its upper tier investment grade rating (the "Results"); and the Company's plans to (i) reduce capital outlays associated with large acquisitions in the near term; and (ii) focus on stock repurchase activity as conditions warrant (the "Plans") are "forward looking statements" and subject to risk and uncertainty.
The Company's ability to deliver the results as described above (the "Results") is based on current expectations and involves inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors listed below and other factors that could delay, divert, or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. In addition to the risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in this press release, the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements include, without limitation, those set forth under Item 1A Risk Factors of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and any material changes thereto set forth in any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, those contained in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and those set forth below.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results is dependent upon: (i) the Company's ability to sell or, if appropriate, discontinue certain product lines, including the consumer metal storage business, during 2008; (ii) the Company's ability to successfully integrate recent acquisitions (including Sonitrol, Xmark, Scan Modul and GdP), as well as any future acquisitions, while limiting associated costs; (iii) the success of the Company's efforts to expand its tools and security businesses; (iv) the success of the Company's efforts to build a growth platform and market leadership in Convergent Securities Solutions; (v) the Company's success in developing and introducing new products, growing sales in existing markets and identifying and developing new markets for its products, including its Convergent Security Solutions products; (vi) the continued acceptance of technologies used in the Company's products, including Convergent Security Solutions products; (vii) the Company's ability to manage existing Sonitrol franchisee relationships; (viii) the Company's ability to minimize costs associated with any sale or discontinuance of a product line, including any severance, restructuring, legal or other costs; (ix) the proceeds realized with respect to any product line disposals; (x) the extent of any asset impairments with respect to the product lines mentioned; (xiii)  the success of the Company's efforts to manage freight costs, steel and other commodity costs; (xi) the success of the Company's efforts to sustain or increase prices in order to, among other things, offset or mitigate the impact of steel, freight, energy, non-ferrous commodity and other commodity costs and other inflation increases; (xii) the Company's ability to reduce its costs, increase its prices, change the manufacturing location or find alternate sources for products made in China in order to (a) mitigate the impact of an increase in the VAT rate applicable to products the Company makes or purchases in China and (b) mitigate the impact of an anti-dumping tariff recently imposed on certain nails imported from China; (xiii) the Company's ability to generate free cash flow and maintain a strong debt to capital ratio; (xiv) the Company's ability to identify and effectively execute productivity improvements and cost reductions, while minimizing any associated restructuring charges; (xv) the Company's ability to obtain favorable settlement of routine tax audits; (xvi) the ability of the Company to generate earnings sufficient to realize future income tax benefits during periods when temporary differences become deductible; (xvii) the continued ability of the Company to access credit markets under satisfactory terms; and (xviii) the Company's ability to negotiate satisfactory payment terms under which the Company buys and sells goods, services, materials and products.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results is also dependent upon: (i) the continued success of the Company's marketing and sales efforts; (ii) the success of recruiting programs and other efforts to maintain or expand overall Mac Tools truck count versus prior years; (iii) the ability of the Company to maintain or improve production rates in the Company's manufacturing facilities, respond to significant changes in product demand and fulfill demand for new and existing products; (iv) the ability to continue successfully managing and defending claims and litigation; (v) the Company's ability to continue improvements in working capital; (vi) the success of the Company's efforts to mitigate any cost increases generated by, for example, continued increases in the cost of energy or significant Chinese Renminbi or other currency appreciation; and (vii) the geographic distribution of the Company's earnings.
The Company's ability to achieve the Results will also be affected by external factors. These external factors include: pricing pressure and other changes within competitive markets; the continued consolidation of customers particularly in consumer channels; inventory management pressures on the Company's customers; the impact the tightened credit markets may have on the Company's customers; increasing competition; changes in trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies and laws; inflation; currency exchange fluctuations; the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange and interest rates on the competitiveness of products and the Company's debt program; the strength of the U.S. and European economies; the extent to which North American markets associated with homebuilding and remodeling continue to deteriorate; and the impact of events that cause or may cause disruption in the Company's manufacturing, distribution and sales networks such as war, terrorist activities, political unrest and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, the extent and duration of current recessionary trends in the US economy.
The Company's Plans may change in response to future events, which may include, but are not limited to, an improved economic environment, better than expected performance by the Company during the fourth quarter or in future periods, and specific acquisition opportunities that may become actionable.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof.

Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital and capitalized software expenditures. The Company believes this is an important measure of its liquidity, of its ability to fund future growth and to provide a return to the shareowners. Free cash flow does not reflect, among other things, deductions for mandatory debt service, other borrowing activity, discretionary dividends on the Company's common stock and acquisitions.
The change in working capital is comprised of current accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable.


