FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20090128091920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 28, 2009 The Stanley Works issued a press release announcing fourth quarter and full year 2008 results.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not applicable (b) Not applicable (c) Not applicable (d) Exhibits 99.1 Press release dated January 28, 2009. 99.1 Financial statements contained in The Stanley Works' January 28, 2009 press release.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
The Stanley Works Reports 4Q 2008 & FY'08 Results
New Britain, Connecticut, January 28, 2009
...
The Stanley Works today announced fourth quarter and full year 2008 financial results which include record annual revenues despite the impact of a historic second half drop in unit volume and previously announced restructuring and related charges incurred to proactively recalibrate the Company's cost structure.
(NYSE: SWK)
4Q'08 Key Points:
4Q'08 Segment Results:
John F. Lundgren, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented: "While the fourth quarter was characterized by steep revenue and margin declines in CDIY and Industrial, the Security segment continued on its growth trajectory, providing welcome stability to overall company operations. We feel that we are taking appropriate actions to protect our cash flow and earnings base while positioning the company for future growth. We are operating from a position of strength in the most difficult environment in memory."
Full Year 2008 Key Points:
Full Year Segment Results:
James M. Loree, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, stated: "We faced a number of severe, economically-driven headwinds during 2008, especially during the fourth quarter. Fortunately, our more diversified portfolio, focus on the Stanley Fulfillment System and long-standing conservative financial posture allowed us to weather a very choppy environment in good stead. I cannot overemphasize the extent to which SFS is positively impacting all aspects of our performance and, in particular, how timely the cash flow benefits from this deeply-rooted transformational initiative have been."
2009 Outlook
In the press release the Company issued on December 11, a number of assumptions were provided in order to assist the financial community in its assessment of the outlook for 2009. Outside of a few updates, the Company feels those points are still applicable and it will not be providing full year 2009 guidance until the economic conditions and end markets stabilize sufficiently to provide reasonable visibility. (Please see appendix for aforementioned updated statements).
th
Donald Allan Jr., Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, commented, "As the range of potential outcomes for revenue, earnings and cash flow remains quite wide due to the volatility of economically-related variables, including but not limited to end market demand, inflation/deflation, price realization, currency and interest rates, we feel that it is prudent to allow some time to elapse before providing guidance for 2009. That said, we are constantly monitoring these variables and stand committed to take actions to protect the company's earnings, cash flow and balance sheet as appropriate."
The company will host a conference call with investors at 10:00am EST, Wednesday, January 28, 2009 to discuss quarterly results. The call is accessible by telephone at (877) 242-3653 (domestic) and (763) 416  6917 (international) and via the Internet at www.stanleyworks.com by selecting "Investor Relations". A slide presentation to accompany the call will be available at www.stanleyworks.com and will remain available after the call. A replay will also be available two hours after the call and can be accessed at (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 using the conference identification number 79008614.
The Stanley Works, an S&P 500 company, is a diversified worldwide supplier of tools and engineered solutions for professional, industrial, construction and do-it-yourself use, and security solutions for commercial applications. More information about The Stanley Works can be found at http://www.stanleyworks.com.
The following is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter and full year of 2008 to the same measure on a pro-forma basis:
Management believes the pro-forma diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is useful in assessing the Company's actual results given the unusually large magnitude of fourth quarter restructuring and related costs.
Operating margin is defined as sales less cost of sales less SG&A. Management uses operating margin and its percentage of net sales as key measures to assess the performance of the company as a whole, as well as the related measures at the segment level.
Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital and capitalized software expenditures (reconciliation on pg. 10). Free cash flow does not reflect, among other things, deductions for mandatory debt service, other borrowing activity, discretionary dividends on the company's common stock and acquisitions. Organic sales growth is defined as total sales growth less sales of companies acquired in the past twelve months and less foreign currency impacts. The company believes these are important measures of its liquidity, of its ability to fund future growth and to provide a return to the shareowners, and of its sales performance.
APPENDIX (Updated information and assumptions from the December 11th press release)
Statements in this press release, including but not limited to those regarding the Company's ability to: (i) limit capital expenditures to approximately 2% of sales in 2009; (ii) limit the 2009 EPS impact associated with a decline in volume shipments in 2009 to $2.00-$2.25 per share; (iii) limit EPS impact associated with fluctuation in value of the US dollar against other major currencies to approximately $0.50 per share; (iv) limit the impact of inflation in 2009 to $30 million in the first part of the year; (v) generate a modest favorable impact associated with pricing actions taken during 2008; (vi) generate a 2009 operating margin benefit from cost actions implemented at mid-year 2008 and in connection with the December 11, 2008 announcement of approximately $195 million, or $1.75 per share, with an additional $0.24 per share benefit in 2010; (vii) limit 2009 restructuring and related charges to 50% of 2008 levels and (viii) realize EPS accretion from acquisitions completed in 2008 of $0.10-$0.12 per share in 2009 (the "Results"); are "forward looking statements" and subject to risk and uncertainty.
The Company's ability to deliver the results as described above and in the Company's December 11, 2008 press release (the "Results") is based on current expectations and involves inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors listed below and other factors that could delay, divert, or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. In addition to the risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in this press release, the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements include, without limitation, those set forth under Item 1A Risk Factors of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and any material changes thereto set forth in any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, those contained in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and those set forth below.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results is dependent upon: (i) the Company's ability to implement the cost savings measures discussed in its December 11, 2008 press release within anticipated time frames and to limit associated costs; (ii) the Company's ability to limit unit volume declines to 10-12% relative to 2008 sales while maintaining or improving the existing product mix and geographic distribution; (iii) the Company's ability to sustain prices despite fluctuations in commodity costs; (iv) the Company's ability to successfully integrate recent acquisitions (including Sonitrol, Xmark, Scan Modul and GdP), as well as any future acquisitions, while limiting associated costs; (v) the success of the Company's efforts to expand its tools and security businesses; (vi) the success of the Company's efforts to build a growth platform and market leadership in Convergent Securities Solutions; (vii) the Company's success in developing and introducing new products, growing sales in existing markets and identifying and developing new markets for its products; (viii) the continued acceptance of technologies used in the Company's products, including Convergent Security Solutions products; (ix) the Company's ability to manage existing Sonitrol franchisee relationships; (x) the Company's ability to minimize costs associated with any sale or discontinuance of a business or product line, including any severance, restructuring, legal or other costs; (xi) the proceeds realized with respect to any business or product line disposals; (xii) the extent of any asset impairments with respect to any businesses or product lines that are sold or discontinued; (xiii)  the success of the Company's efforts to manage freight costs, steel and other commodity costs; (xiv) the Company's ability to generate free cash flow and maintain a strong debt to capital ratio; (xv) the Company's ability to identify and effectively execute productivity improvements and cost reductions, while minimizing any associated restructuring charges; (xvi) the Company's ability to obtain favorable settlement of routine tax audits; (xvii) the ability of the Company to generate earnings sufficient to realize future income tax benefits during periods when temporary differences become deductible; (xviii) the continued ability of the Company to access credit markets under satisfactory terms; and (xix) the Company's ability to negotiate satisfactory payment terms under which the Company buys and sells goods, services, materials and products.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results is also dependent upon: (i) the success of the Company's marketing and sales efforts; (ii) the ability of the Company to maintain or improve production rates in the Company's manufacturing facilities, respond to significant changes in product demand and fulfill demand for new and existing products; (iii) the ability to continue successfully managing and defending claims and litigation; (iv) the Company's ability to continue improvements in working capital; (v) the success of the Company's efforts to mitigate any cost increases generated by, for example, increases in the cost of energy or significant Chinese Renminbi or other currency appreciation; and (vi) the geographic distribution of the Company's earnings.
The Company's ability to achieve the Results will also be affected by external factors. These external factors include: pricing pressure and other changes within competitive markets; the continued consolidation of customers particularly in consumer channels; inventory management pressures on the Company's customers; the impact the tightened credit markets may have on the Company or its customers; the extent to which the Company has to write off accounts receivable or assets in connection with bankruptcy filings by customers or suppliers; increasing competition; changes in laws, regulations and policies that affect the Company, including, but not limited to trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies and laws; virtually overall no inflation in 2009; currency exchange fluctuations; the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange and interest rates on the competitiveness of products and the Company's debt program; the strength of the U.S. and European economies; the extent to which North American markets associated with homebuilding and remodeling continue to deteriorate; the impact of events that cause or may cause disruption in the Company's manufacturing, distribution and sales networks such as war, terrorist activities, and political unrest; and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, the extent and duration of the current recession in the US economy.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof.

Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital and capitalized software expenditures. The Company believes this is an important measure of its liquidity, of its ability to fund future growth and to provide a return to the shareowners. Free cash flow does not reflect, among other things, deductions for mandatory debt service, other borrowing activity, discretionary dividends on the Company's common stock and acquisitions.
The change in working capital is comprised of current accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable.


