FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20091103164526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On November 2, 2009, The Stanley Works (), Blue Jay Acquisition Corp. (), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Stanley, and The Black & Decker Corporation () entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the ), providing for the combination of Stanley and Black & Decker.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, which has been approved by the boards of directors of all parties, Merger Sub will be merged (the ) with and into Black & Decker, with Black & Decker becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Stanley.
Stanley
Merger Sub
Black & Decker
Merger Agreement
Merger
 
As a result of the Merger, each outstanding share of Black & Deckers common stock will be converted into the right to receive 1.275 shares of common stock of Stanley (the ).
Common Stock
 
The consummation of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others:  (i) the approval by Black & Deckers shareholders of the Merger, (ii) the approval by Stanleys shareholders of the issuance of Common Stock by Stanley and the amendment of Stanleys certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Common Stock and to change Stanleys name to Stanley Black & Decker, and (iii) the receipt of antitrust approval (or the expiration of applicable waiting periods) in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, including the European Union, and the absence of legal restraints preventing consummation of the Merger or that would reasonably be expected to result in certain adverse effects on Stanley or Black & Decker.
 
The Merger Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and covenants, most of which are reciprocal between Stanley and Black & Decker.  Certain covenants require that each of the parties:  (i) use reasonable best efforts to cause the Merger to be consummated, including with regard to receiving antitrust approvals, (ii) not solicit alternate transactions, and (iii) call and hold a special shareholders meeting and, in the case of Black & Decker, recommend approval of the Merger, and, in the case of Stanley, recommend approval of the issuance of Common Stock and the amendment to Stanleys certificate of incorporation.
 
The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights and provides that (i) upon the termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including a change in the recommendation of the Black & Decker board of directors, Black & Decker will owe Stanley a cash termination fee of $125 million, and (ii) upon the termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including a change in the recommendation of the Stanley board of directors, Stanley will owe Black & Decker a cash termination fee of $125 million.
 
The Merger Agreement also provides that, upon consummation of the Merger, (i) the Stanley board of directors shall be comprised of nine directors from Stanley and six directors from Black & Decker, (ii) of the independent directors from Stanley, one shall be appointed the lead independent director, and (iii) Nolan D. Archibald, the current Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Black & Decker, shall be elected as Executive Chairman of the Stanley board of directors.  John F. Lundgren, the current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Stanley, shall remain as Chief Executive Officer.
 
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement is not a complete description of all of the parties rights and obligations under the Merger Agreement.  The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On November 2, 2009, the Stanley Compensation and Organization Committee (the ) voted to recommend to the Stanley board of directors its approval of (i) an amended and restated employment agreement between Stanley and John F. Lundgren (the ), (ii) an employment agreement between Stanley and James M. Loree (the ) and (iii) an executive chairman agreement between Stanley and Nolan D. Archibald (the  and, collectively, the ), each of which the Board approved on November 2, 2009.  The Employment Agreements become effective upon consummation of the MergerEmployment
Compensation Committee
Lundgren Agreement
Loree Agreement
Executive Chairman Agreement
Employment Agreements
.  If the Merger is not consummated, the
Agreements are null and void and will not become effective.
 
 
 
 
The Lundgren Agreement
 
Upon its effective date, the Lundgren Agreement will amend and restate, in its entirety, Stanleys previous employment agreement with Mr. Lundgren, dated as of December 10, 2008 (the ).  Except for the material terms described below, the Lundgren Agreement is substantially similar to the Prior Agreement.  Under the Lundgren Agreement, Mr. Lundgren will continue to serve as Stanleys President and Chief Executive Officer and will receive an annual base salary of at least $1,250,000, subject to review for increase annually.  Mr. Lundgren will be entitled to participate in an annual bonus plan, with an annual target bonus opportunity equal to 150% of his annual base salary.  In addition, promptly after the Lundgren Agreement becomes effective, Mr. Lundgren will be entitled to receive a grant of restricted stock units, which generally will vest 50% on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the consummation of the Merger.  In addition to the restricted stock units granted to Mr. Lundgren at the time of the consummation of the Merger, Mr. Lundgren will also be eligible to receive annual performance awards and annual stock option awards.  All of the equity awards granted pursuant to the Lundgren Agreement will be subject to the terms and conditions of Stanleys equity incentive plan and customary award agreements.
Prior Agreement
 
The Loree Agreement
 
Under the Loree Agreement, Mr. Loree will continue to serve as Stanleys Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and will receive an annual base salary of at least $750,000, subject to review for increase annually.  Mr. Loree will be entitled to participate in an annual bonus plan, with an annual target bonus opportunity equal to 100% of his annual base salary.  In addition, promptly after the Loree Agreement becomes effective, Mr. Loree will be entitled to receive a grant of restricted stock units, which generally will vest 50% on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the consummation of the Merger.  In addition to the restricted stock units granted to Mr. Loree at the time of the consummation of the Merger, Mr. Loree will also be eligible to receive annual performance awards and annual stock option awards.  All of the equity awards granted pursuant to the Loree Agreement will be subject to the terms and conditions of Stanleys equity incentive plan and customary award agreements
 
Mr. Loree will be entitled to certain severance payments if his employment is terminated by Stanley without cause or if Mr. Loree experiences a constructive termination of employment and, in connection therewith, Mr. Loree executes a general release and waiver.  In addition, in the event Mr. Lorees employment is terminated, he will be subject to certain restrictive covenants.
 
The Archibald Agreement
 
Upon its effective date, the Archibald Agreement will replace and supersede Mr. Archibalds existing employment agreement with Black & Decker.  Under the Archibald Agreement, Mr. Archibald will serve as a member and Executive Chairman of the Stanley board of directors and as an employee of Stanley for a period of three years following the consummation of the Merger.  While Mr. Archibald is employed by Stanley, he will receive an annual base salary of $1,500,000 and will be entitled to participate in an annual bonus plan, with an annual target bonus opportunity equal to $1,875,000.  In addition, promptly after the Archibald Agreement becomes effective, Mr. Archibald will be entitled to receive a grant of stock options, which generally will vest on the third anniversary of the consummation of the Merger.  In addition to the stock options granted to Mr. Archibald at the time of the consummation of the Merger, Mr. Archibald will also be eligible to receive annual equity awards, comprised (based on value) of 50% stock options and 50% restricted stock, restricted stock units or other full-share type awards.  All of the equity awards granted pursuant to the Archibald Agreement will be subject to the terms and conditions of Stanley equity incentive plan and customary award agreements.  Mr. Archibald will also be eligible to receive a cost synergy bonus upon the third anniversary of the consummation of the Merger based on the achievement of certain goals.
 
Mr. Archibald will remain entitled to receive certain perquisites and benefits that he has been receiving pursuant to his existing employment agreement with Black & Decker.  In addition, Mr. Archibald has agreed to waive certain rights to payments and benefits provided for under his existing employment agreement with Black & Decker, including the right to receive an approximately $20.5 million change in control severance payment, a tax gross-up for excise taxes under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and immediate accelerated vesting of his outstanding Black & Decker stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units.
 
Mr. Archibald will be entitled to certain severance payments if his employment is terminated by Stanley without cause or if Mr. Archibald experiences a constructive termination of employment and, in connection therewith, Mr. Archibald executes a general release and waiver.  In addition, in the event Mr. Archibalds employment is terminated, he will be subject to certain restrictive covenants.
 
The foregoing description of the Employment Agreements is not a complete description of all of the parties rights and obligations under the Employment Agreements.  The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Employment
Agreements, which are attached as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
 
The proposed transaction involving Stanley and Black & Decker will be submitted to the respective stockholders of Stanley and Black & Decker for their consideration.  In connection with the proposed transaction, Stanley will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement of Stanley and Black & Decker that will also constitute a prospectus of Stanley.  Investors and security holders Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other documents (when available) that Stanley and Black & Decker file with the SEC at the SECs website at www.sec.gov and Stanleys website related to the transaction at www.stanleyblackanddecker.com.  In addition, these documents may be obtained from Stanley or Black & Decker free of charge by directing a request to Investor Relations, The Stanley Works, 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, CT 06053, or to Investor Relations, The Black & Decker Corporation, 701 E. Joppa Road, Towson, Maryland 21286, respectively.
are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available, because they will contain important information.  
 
 
Certain Information Regarding Participants
 
Stanley, Black & Decker and certain of their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC.  Investors and security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of Stanleys directors and executive officers in Stanleys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 2009, which was filed with the SEC on February 26, 2009, and its proxy statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on March 20, 2009.  Investors and security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of Black & Deckers directors and executive officers in Black & Deckers Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed with the SEC on February 17, 2009, and its proxy statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on March 16, 2009.  These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources listed above.  Additional information regarding the interests of these individuals will also be included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction when it becomes available.
 
 
Non-Solicitation
 
A registration statement relating to the securities to be issued by Stanley in the proposed transaction will be filed with the SEC, and Stanley will not issue, sell or accept offers to buy such securities prior to the time such registration statement becomes effective.  This document shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of such securities, in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to appropriate registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
Page
Table of Contents
 
 
 
ii
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
iii
Table of Contents
 
Annex A                      Index of Defined Terms
Exhibit A                      Form of Charter of Surviving Company
Exhibit B                      Articles Amendment
Exhibit C                      Governance Matters
 
 
 
 
iv
Table of Contents
 
 
AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER (this ) dated as of November 2, 2009, among THE BLACK & DECKER CORPORATION, a Maryland corporation (), THE STANLEY WORKS, a Connecticut corporation (), and BLUE JAY ACQUISITION CORP., a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Stanley ().
Agreement
Black & Decker
Stanley
Merger Sub
 
WHEREAS each of the Board of Directors of Black & Decker, the Board of Directors of Stanley and the Board of Directors of Merger Sub has approved this Agreement and determined that the Merger on the terms provided for in this Agreement is advisable and in the best interests of Black & Decker, Stanley or Merger Sub, as applicable, and its respective stockholders or shareholders, as applicable;
 
WHEREAS the Board of Directors of Black & Decker and the Board of Directors of Merger Sub each has recommended that its stockholders approve the Merger on the terms provided in this Agreement, and the Board of Directors of Stanley has adopted the Articles Amendment and recommended that its shareholders approve the Share Issuance and the Articles Amendment on the terms provided in this Agreement;
 
WHEREAS for U.S. Federal income Tax purposes, the Merger is intended to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code (the ), and this Agreement is intended to be, and is adopted as, a plan of reorganization for purposes of Sections 354 and 361 of the Code;
Intended Tax Treatment
 
WHEREAS as an inducement to Stanley and Merger Sub to enter into this Agreement, concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, Nolan D. Archibald is entering into an employment agreement with Stanley (the ), conditioned upon consummation of the Merger and to be effective at the Effective Time; and
Executive Chairman Agreement
 
WHEREAS Black & Decker, Stanley and Merger Sub desire to make certain representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in connection with the Merger and also to prescribe various conditions to the Merger.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
                          On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, and in accordance with the Maryland General Corporation Law (the ), on the Closing Date, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into Black & Decker (the ).  At the Effective Time and as a result of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub shall cease and Black & Decker shall continue as the surviving company in the Merger (the ).
SECTION 1.01.  
.
The Merger
MGCL
Merger
Surviving Company
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
                        The closing (the ) of the Merger shall take place at the offices of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, Worldwide Plaza, 825 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10019 at 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on a date to be specified by Black & Decker and Stanley, which shall be no later than the second Business Day following the satisfaction or (to the extent permitted by Law) waiver by the party or parties entitled to the benefits thereof of the conditions set forth in Article VII (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or (to the extent permitted by Law) waiver of those conditions), or at such other place, time and date as shall be agreed in writing between Black & Decker and Stanley; , , that if all the conditions set forth in Article VII shall not have been satisfied or (to the extent permitted by Law) waived on such second Business Day, then the Closing shall take place on the first Business Day thereafter on which all such conditions shall have been satisfied or (to the extent permitted by Law) waived.  The date on which the Closing occurs is referred to in this Agreement as the .
SECTION 1.02.  
Closing
.
Closing
provided
however
Closing Date
 
                        Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, as soon as practicable on the Closing Date, the parties shall file with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of the State of Maryland (the ) the articles of merger relating to the Merger (the ), executed and acknowledged in accordance with the relevant provisions of the MGCL, and, as soon as practicable on or after the Closing Date, shall make all other filings required under the MGCL or by the SDAT in connection with the Merger.  The Merger shall become effective at the time that the Articles of Merger have been duly filed with and accepted for record by the SDAT, or at such later time, not more than 30 days after the Articles of Merger are accepted for record by the SDAT, as Black & Decker, Stanley and Merger Sub shall agree and specify in the Articles of Merger (the time the Merger becomes effective being the ).
SECTION 1.03.  
.
Effective Time
SDAT
Articles of Merger
Effective Time
 
                        The Merger shall have the effects set forth in this Agreement and the applicable provisions of the MGCL.
SECTION 1.04.  
.
Effects
 
                        At the Effective Time, the charter of Black & Decker shall be amended and restated in its entirety as set forth on hereto and shall be the charter of the Surviving Company until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable Law.  The bylaws of the Surviving Company in effect from and after the Effective Time and until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable Law shall be in the form of the bylaws of Merger Sub as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, except that references to the name of Merger Sub shall be replaced by references to the name of the Surviving Company (the ).
SECTION 1.05.  
.
Charter and Bylaws
Exhibit A
Surviving Company Bylaws
 
                        The directors of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall become the directors of the Surviving Company as of the Effective Time until the earlier of their resignation or removal or their respective successors have been duly elected and qualified, as the case may be.  The officers of Black & Decker immediately prior to the Effective Time shall continue as the officers of the Surviving Company immediately following the Effective Time until the earlier of their resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly appointed and qualified.
SECTION 1.06.  
.
Board of Directors and Officers of Surviving Company
 
 
2
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
                      At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of Black & Decker, Stanley, Merger Sub or the holder of any shares of Black & Decker Common Stock or any shares of Merger Sub Common Stock:
SECTION 2.01.  
.
Effect on Stock
 
(a)    Each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Merger Sub (the ) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into and become one fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Company with the same rights, powers and privileges as the shares so converted and shall constitute the only outstanding shares of stock of the Surviving Company.  From and after the Effective Time, all certificates representing shares of Merger Sub Common Stock, if any, shall be deemed for all purposes to represent the number of shares of common stock of the Surviving Company into which they were converted in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence.
Conversion of Merger Sub Common Stock.
Merger Sub Common Stock
 
                    (b)    Each share of common stock, par value $0.50 per share, of Black & Decker (the ) that is owned by Stanley or Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and shall cease to exist, and no consideration shall be delivered in exchange therefor.
Cancellation of Stanley-Owned Stock.
Black & Decker Common Stock
 
(c)    Subject to Sections 2.01(b) and 2.02(f), each share of Black & Decker Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into the right to receive 1.275 (the ) fully paid and nonassessable shares of Stanley Common Stock, together with associated Stanley Rights (the ).  All such shares of Black & Decker Common Stock, when so converted, shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and shall cease to exist, and each holder of a certificate that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented any such shares of Black & Decker Common Stock (each, a 
Conversion of Black & Decker Common Stock.
Exchange Ratio
Merger Consideration
) and each holder of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock held in book-entry form shall, in each case, cease to have any rights with respect thereto, except the right to receive the Merger Consideration and any cash in lieu of fractional shares of Stanley Common Stock to be issued or paid in consideration therefor and any dividends or other distributions to which holders become entitled in accordance with Section 2.02, without interest.  For purposes of this Agreement,  means the common stock, par value $2.50 per share, of Stanley.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time the outstanding shares of Stanley Common Stock or Black & Decker Common Stock shall have been changed into a different number of shares or a different class, by reason of any stock dividend, subdivision, reclassification, recapitalization, split, combination or exchange of shares, or any similar event shall have occurred, then any number or amount contained herein which is based upon the number of shares of Stanley Common Stock or Black & Decker Common Stock, as the case may be, will be appropriately adjusted to provide to Stanley and the holders of Black & Decker Common Stock the same economic effect as contemplated by this Agreement prior to such event.  The right of any holder of Black & Decker Common Stock to receive the Merger Consideration shall be subject in all cases to the provisions of Section 2.02, and in accordance therewith shall be subject to and reduced by the amount of any withholding under applicable Tax Law.
Certificate
Stanley Common Stock
 
 
3
Table of Contents
 
                      (a)    Prior to the Effective Time, Stanley shall appoint a bank or trust company reasonably acceptable to Black & Decker to act as exchange agent (the 
SECTION 2.02.  
.
Exchange of Certificates; Book-Entry Shares
Exchange Agent.
) for the payment of the Merger Consideration.  At or prior to the Effective Time, Stanley shall deposit with the Exchange Agent, for the benefit of the holders of Black & Decker Common Stock, for exchange in accordance with this Article II through the Exchange Agent, certificates representing the shares of Stanley Common Stock to be issued as Merger Consideration and cash sufficient to make payments in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to Section 2.02(f).  All such shares of Stanley Common Stock and cash deposited with the Exchange Agent is hereinafter referred to as the 
Exchange Agent
.
Exchange Fund
 
(b)    As promptly as practicable after the Effective Time, and in any event not later than the second Business Day thereafter, Stanley shall cause the Exchange Agent to mail to each holder of record of Black & Decker Common Stock a form of letter of transmittal (the ) (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to any Certificates shall pass, only upon delivery of such Certificates to the Exchange Agent and shall be in such form and have such other provisions (including customary provisions with respect to delivery of an agents message with respect to shares held in book-entry form) as Stanley may specify subject to Black & Deckers reasonable approval), together with instructions thereto.
Letter of Transmittal.
Letter of Transmittal
 
(c)    Upon (i) in the case of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock represented by a Certificate, the surrender of such Certificate for cancellation to the Exchange Agent, or (ii) in the case of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock held in book-entry form, the receipt of an agents message by the Exchange Agent, in each case together with the associated Letter of Transmittal, duly, completely and validly executed in accordance with the instructions thereto, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Exchange Agent, the holder of such shares shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor (i) the Merger Consideration into which such shares of Black & Decker Common Stock have been converted pursuant to Section 2.01 and (ii) any cash in lieu of fractional shares which the holder has the right to receive pursuant to 2.02(f) and any dividends or other distributions which the holder has the right to receive pursuant to Section 2.02(d).  In the event of a transfer of ownership of Black & Decker Common Stock which is not registered in the transfer records of Black & Decker, a certificate representing the proper number of shares of Stanley Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.01 and cash in lieu of fractional shares which the holder has the right to receive pursuant to Section 2.02(f) and any dividends or other distributions which the holder has the right to receive pursuant to Section 2.02(d) may be issued to a transferee if the Certificate representing such Black & Decker Common Stock (or, if such Black & Decker Common Stock is held in book-entry form, proper evidence of such transfer) is presented to the Exchange Agent, accompanied by all documents required to evidence and effect such transfer and by evidence that any applicable stock transfer Taxes have been paid. Until surrendered as contemplated by this Section 2.02(c), each share of Black & Decker Common Stock, and any Certificate with respect thereto shall be deemed at any time from and after the Effective Time to represent only the right to receive upon such surrender the Merger Consideration which the holders of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock were entitled to receive in respect of such shares pursuant to Section 2.01 (and cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to Section 2.02(f) and any dividends or other distributions pursuant to Section 2.02(d)). No interest shall be paid or shall accrue on the cash payable upon surrender of any Certificate (or shares of Black & Decker Common Stock held in book-entry form).
Merger Consideration Received in Connection with Exchange.
 
4
Table of Contents
 
                        (d)    No dividends or other distributions declared or made with respect to Stanley Common Stock with a record date after the Effective Time shall be paid to the holder of any unsurrendered Certificate (or shares of Black & Decker Common Stock held in book-entry form) with respect to the shares of Stanley Common Stock issuable upon surrender thereof, and no cash payment in lieu of fractional shares shall be paid to any such holder pursuant to Section 2.02(f), until the surrender of such Certificate (or such shares of Black & Decker Common Stock held in book-entry form) in accordance with this Article II.  Subject to escheat, Tax or other applicable Law, following surrender of any such Certificate (or shares of Black & Decker Common Stock held in book-entry form), there shall be paid to the holder of the certificate representing whole shares of Stanley Common Stock issued in exchange therefor, without interest, (i) at the time of such surrender, the amount of any cash payable in lieu of a fractional share of Stanley Common Stock to which such holder is entitled pursuant to Section 2.02(f) and the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time theretofore paid with respect to such whole shares of Stanley Common Stock and (ii) at the appropriate payment date, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time but prior to such surrender and a payment date subsequent to such surrender payable with respect to such whole shares of Stanley Common Stock.
Treatment of Unexchanged Shares.
 
(e)    The Merger Consideration, any dividends or other distributions payable pursuant to Section 2.02(d) and cash in lieu of any fractional shares payable pursuant to Section 2.02(f) paid upon the surrender of Certificates (or shares of Black & Decker Common Stock held in book-entry form) in accordance with the terms of this Article II shall be deemed to have been issued and paid in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to the shares of Black & Decker Common Stock formerly represented by such Certificates (or shares of Black & Decker Common Stock held in book-entry form), , , to the Surviving Companys obligation to pay any dividends or make any other distributions with a record date prior to the Effective Time that may have been declared or made by Black & Decker on such shares of Black & Decker Common Stock and which remain unpaid at the Effective Time.  From and after the Effective Time, there shall be no further registration of transfers on the stock transfer books of the Surviving Company of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.  If, after the Effective Time, any Certificates formerly representing shares of Black & Decker Common Stock (or shares of Black & Decker Common Stock held in book-entry form) are presented to Stanley or the Exchange Agent for any reason, they shall be canceled and exchanged as provided in this Article II.
No Further Ownership Rights in Black & Decker Common Stock.
subject
however
 
5
Table of Contents
 
                    (f)    No certificates or scrip representing fractional shares of Stanley Common Stock shall be issued upon the conversion of Black & Decker Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.01, and such fractional share interests shall not entitle the owner thereof to vote or to any rights of a holder of Stanley Common Stock.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, each holder of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock converted pursuant to the Merger who, based on the Exchange Ratio, would have been entitled to receive a fraction of a share of Stanley Common Stock (after taking into account all shares of Black & Decker Common Stock exchanged by such holder) shall receive, in lieu thereof, cash (without interest) in an amount equal to such fractional amount multiplied by the closing sale price for Stanley Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the ) (as reported in The Wall Street Journal or, if not reported therein, in another authoritative source mutually selected by Stanley and Black & Decker) for the trading day immediately preceding the date of the Effective Time.
No Fractional Shares.
NYSE
 
(g)    Any portion of the Exchange Fund (including any interest received with respect thereto) that remains undistributed to the holders of Black & Decker Common Stock for one year after the Effective Time shall be delivered to Stanley, upon demand, and any holder of Black & Decker Common Stock who has not theretofore complied with this Article II shall thereafter look only to Stanley for payment of its claim for Merger Consideration, any cash in lieu of fractional shares and any dividends and distributions to which such holder is entitled pursuant to this Article II.
Termination of Exchange Fund.
 
(h)    None of Black & Decker, Stanley, Merger Sub or the Exchange Agent shall be liable to any Person in respect of any portion of the Exchange Fund delivered to a public official in compliance with any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Law.  Any portion of the Exchange Fund which remains undistributed to the holders of Certificates for two years after the Effective Time (or immediately prior to such earlier date on which the Exchange Fund otherwise would be required to escheat to, or become the property of, any Governmental Entity), shall, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, become the property of Stanley, free and clear of all claims or interest of any Person previously entitled thereto.
No Liability.
 
(i)    The Exchange Agent shall invest any cash in the Exchange Fund as directed by Stanley.  Any interest and other income resulting from such investments shall be paid to Stanley.
Investment of Exchange Fund.
 
                        (j)    Each of Stanley and the Exchange Agent (without duplication) shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable to any holder of Black & Decker Common Stock pursuant to this Agreement such amounts as may be required to be deducted and withheld with respect to the making of such payment under applicable Tax Law.  Amounts so withheld and paid over to the appropriate taxing authority shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of Black & Decker Common Stock in respect of which such deduction or withholding was made.
Withholding Rights.
 
(k)    If any Certificate shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the Person claiming such Certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed and, if required by Stanley, the posting by such Person of a bond, in such reasonable and customary amount as Stanley may direct, as indemnity against any claim that may be made against it with respect to such Certificate, the Exchange Agent shall issue, in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate, the Merger Consideration, any cash in lieu of fractional shares and any dividends and distributions on the Certificate deliverable in respect thereof pursuant to this Article II.
Lost Certificates.
 
6
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Stanley and Merger Sub jointly and severally represent and warrant to Black & Decker that the statements contained in this Article III are true and correct except as set forth in the Stanley SEC Documents filed and publicly available prior to the date of this Agreement (the ) (excluding any disclosures in the Filed Stanley SEC Documents under the heading Risk Factors and any other disclosures of risks that are predictive or forward-looking in nature) or in the disclosure letter delivered by Stanley to Black & Decker at or before the execution and delivery by Stanley and Merger Sub of this Agreement (the ).  The Stanley Disclosure Letter shall be arranged in numbered and lettered sections corresponding to the numbered and lettered sections contained in this Article III, and the disclosure in any section shall be deemed to qualify other sections in this Article III to the extent (and only to the extent) that it is reasonably apparent from the face of such disclosure that such disclosure also qualifies or applies to such other sections.
Filed Stanley SEC Documents
Stanley Disclosure Letter
 
                          Each of Stanley and each of Stanleys Subsidiaries (the ) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized (in the case of good standing, to the extent such jurisdiction recognizes such concept), except, in the case of the Stanley Subsidiaries, where the failure to be so organized, existing or in good standing, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.  Each of Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries has all requisite power and authority and possesses all governmental franchises, licenses, permits, authorizations, variances, exemptions, orders and approvals (collectively, ) necessary to enable it to own, lease or otherwise hold its properties and assets and to conduct its businesses as presently conducted (the ), except where the failure to have such power or authority or to possess Stanley Permits, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.  Each of Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries is duly qualified or licensed to do business in each jurisdiction where the nature of its business or the ownership or leasing of its properties makes such qualification necessary, other than in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.  Stanley has delivered or made available to Black & Decker, prior to execution of this Agreement, true and complete copies of (a) the certificate of incorporation of Stanley in effect as of the date of this Agreement (the ) and the bylaws of Stanley in effect as of the date of this Agreement (the ) and (b) the articles of incorporation and bylaws of Merger Sub in effect as of the date of this Agreement.
SECTION 3.01.  
.
Organization, Standing and Power
Stanley Subsidiaries
Permits
Stanley Permits
Stanley Articles
Stanley Bylaws
 
 
7
Table of Contents
 
                          (a)  All the outstanding shares of capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, each Stanley Subsidiary have been validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable and are (other than directors qualifying shares and shares held by natural persons pursuant to requirements of Law of non-U.S. jurisdictions) owned by Stanley, by another Stanley Subsidiary or by Stanley and another Stanley Subsidiary, free and clear of all pledges, liens, charges, mortgages, encumbrances and security interests of any kind or nature whatsoever (collectively, ), and free of any other restriction (including any restriction on the right to vote, sell or otherwise dispose of such capital stock, voting securities or other equity interests), except for restrictions imposed by applicable securities Laws.  Stanley has provided to Black & Decker a true and complete list of all Stanley Subsidiaries as of the date of this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02.  
.
Stanley Subsidiaries
Liens
 
(b)  Except for the capital stock and voting securities of, and other equity interests in, the Stanley Subsidiaries, neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary owns, directly or indirectly, any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, or any interest convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for, any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, any firm, corporation, partnership, company, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association or other entity.
 
                          (a)  The authorized capital stock of Stanley consists of 200,000,000 shares of Stanley Common Stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without par value (the  and, together with the Stanley Common Stock, the ).  250,000 shares of Stanley Preferred Stock have been designated Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, without par value (the ).  At the close of business on October 29, 2009, (i) 80,420,028 shares of Stanley Common Stock were issued and outstanding, (ii) no shares of Stanley Preferred Stock (including Stanley Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) were issued and outstanding, (iii) 11,923,382 shares of Stanley Common Stock comprise formerly issued shares which have been repurchased by Stanley, and which are accounted for as treasury stock in Stanleys consolidated financial statements,(iv) each share of Stanley Common Stock was accompanied by a right (each, a ) to purchase 1/200th of a share of Stanley Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, all such Stanley Rights having been issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement dated as of January 19, 2006, between Stanley and Computershare Investor Services L.L.C. (the ), (v) 250,000 shares of Stanley Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were reserved for issuance upon exercise of the Stanley Rights, (vi) 4,958,216 shares of Stanley Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of Stanleys convertible senior notes (the ) issued in connection with Stanleys equity units issued March 20, 2007 (the ), (vii) 5,895,936 shares of Stanley Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon the maturity of the share purchase contracts associated with the Stanley Equity Units, (viii) 4,938,624 shares of Stanley Common Stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to warrants issued in connection with the Stanley Equity Units, (ix) 12,086,500 shares of Stanley Common Stock were reserved and available for issuance pursuant to the Stanley Stock Plans, of which (A) 5,790,631 shares were issuable upon exercise of outstanding Stanley Stock Options, (B) 815,453 shares were subject to outstanding Stanley Restricted Stock Units and (C) 925,032 shares were subject to outstanding Stanley Performance Share Units (assuming settlement of outstanding awards based on maximum achievement of applicable performance goals) (together with outstanding Stanley Stock Options and Stanley Restricted Stock Units, ), (x) 3,161,978 shares of Stanley Common Stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to the Stanley Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the ) and (xi) 83,713 shares of Stanley Common Stock were payable pursuant to the Stanley Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors ().  Except as set forth in this Section 3.03(a), at the close of business on October 29, 2009, no shares of capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley were issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding.  From the close of business on October 29, 2009 to the date of this Agreement, there have been no issuances by Stanley of shares of capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley other than the issuance of Stanley Common Stock (and associated Rights) (A) upon the exercise of Stanley Stock Options or rights under the Stanley ESPP outstanding at the close of business on October 29, 2009, (B) upon the vesting of Stanley Restricted Stock Units or Stanley Performance Share Units outstanding at the close of business on October 29, 2009, or (C) pursuant to the Stanley Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, in each case in accordance with their terms in effect on October 29, 2009.
SECTION 3.03.  
.
Capital Structure
Stanley Preferred Stock
Stanley Capital Stock
Stanley Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
 
Stanley Right
Rights Agreement
Stanley Convertible Senior Notes
Stanley Equity Units
Stanley Stock-Based Awards
Stanley ESPP
Stanley Directors Deferred Compensation Plan
 
 
8
Table of Contents
 
(b)  All outstanding shares of Stanley Capital Stock and all such shares that may be issued pursuant to the instruments or plans described in Section 3.03(a) are, or will be when issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and not subject to, or issued in violation of, any purchase option, call option, right of first refusal, preemptive right, subscription right or any similar right under any provision of the Business Corporation Act of the State of Connecticut (the ), the Stanley Articles, the Stanley Bylaws or any Contract to which Stanley is a party or otherwise bound.  The shares of Stanley Common Stock constituting the Merger Consideration will be, when issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and not subject to, or issued in violation of, any purchase option, call option, right of first refusal, preemptive right, subscription right or any similar right under any provision of the CBCA, the Stanley Articles, the Stanley Bylaws or any Contract to which Stanley is a party or otherwise bound.  Except as set forth in this Section 3.03, as of the close of business on October 29, 2009, there are not issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding, and there are not any outstanding obligations of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, (i) any capital stock of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary or any securities of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, (ii) any warrants, calls, options or other rights to acquire from Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, or any other obligation of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, or (iii) any rights issued by or other obligations of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary that are linked in any way to the price of any class of Stanley Capital Stock or any shares of capital stock of any Stanley Subsidiary, the value of Stanley, any Stanley Subsidiary or any part of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary or any dividends or other distributions declared or paid on any shares of capital stock of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary.  Except as set forth above in this Section 3.03 or in connection with Stanley Stock-Based Awards, as of the close of business on October 29, 2009, there are not any outstanding obligations of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of capital stock or voting securities or other equity interests of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary or any securities, interests, warrants, calls, options or other rights referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence.  With respect to Stanley Stock Options, (A) each grant of a Stanley Stock Option was duly authorized no later than the date on which the grant of such Stanley Stock Option was by its terms to be effective (the ) by all necessary corporate action, including, as applicable, approval by the Board of Directors of Stanley (the ) (or a duly constituted and authorized committee thereof), and the award agreement governing such grant was duly executed and delivered by each party thereto, and (B) the per share exercise price of each Stanley Stock Option was at least equal to the fair market value of a share of Stanley Common Stock on the applicable Grant Date.  Except as set forth above in this Section 3.03, there are no bonds, debentures, notes or other Indebtedness of Stanley having the right to vote (or convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which shareholders of Stanley may vote ().  Neither Stanley nor any of the Stanley Subsidiaries is a party to any voting agreement with respect to the voting of any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley.  Except for this Agreement, neither Stanley nor any of the Stanley Subsidiaries is a party to any agreement pursuant to which any Person is entitled to elect, designate or nominate any director of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries.
CBCA
Grant Date
Stanley Board
Stanley Voting Debt
 
 
9
Table of Contents
 
                        (a)  Each of Stanley and Merger Sub has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, to perform its obligations hereunder and to consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, subject, in the case of the Share Issuance, to the receipt of the Stanley Shareholder Approval, and, in the case of the amendment of the Stanley Articles to increase the number of authorized shares of Stanley Common Stock in connection with the Share Issuance and to change the name of Stanley, each as described on (the ), to the receipt of the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval and, in the case of the Merger, to the approval of the Merger by Stanley as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub.  The Stanley Board has adopted resolutions, by a vote at a meeting duly called at which a quorum of directors of Stanley was present, (i) approving this Agreement, (ii) determining that entering into this Agreement is in the best interests of Stanley and its shareholders, (iii) declaring the Merger advisable, and (iv) adopting the Articles Amendment and recommending that Stanleys shareholders vote in favor of approval of the Articles Amendment and the issuance of Stanley Common Stock constituting the Merger Consideration (the ) and directing that the Articles Amendment and the Share Issuance be submitted to Stanleys shareholders for approval at a duly held meeting of such shareholders for such purpose ( the ).  Such resolutions have not been amended or withdrawn as of the date of this Agreement.  The Board of Directors of Merger Sub has adopted resolutions, by unanimous written consent, (i) approving this Agreement, (ii) declaring advisable the Merger on substantially the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and determining that the Merger is in the best interests of Merger Sub and Stanley, as its sole stockholder, and (iii) recommending that Stanley, as sole stockholder of Merger Sub, approve the Merger and directing that the Merger be submitted to Stanley, as sole stockholder of Merger Sub, for approval.  Such resolutions have not been amended or withdrawn as of the date of this Agreement.  Stanley, as sole stockholder of Merger Sub, will, immediately following the execution and delivery of this Agreement by each of the parties hereto, approve the Merger.  Except (A) solely in the case of the Share Issuance, for the approval of the Share Issuance by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of Stanley Common Stock represented in person or by proxy at the Stanley Shareholders Meeting, as required by Section 312.03 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual (the ), (B) solely in the case of the Articles Amendment, for the approval of the Articles Amendment by the affirmative vote of holders of a number of shares of Stanley Common Stock represented in person or by proxy at the Stanley Shareholder Meeting in excess of the number of shares of Stanley Common Stock represented in person or by proxy at the Stanley Shareholder Meeting held by holders casting a negative vote (the ) and (C) solely in the case of the Merger, for the approval of the Merger by Stanley as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, no other corporate proceedings on the part of Stanley or Merger Sub are necessary to authorize, adopt or approve, as applicable, this Agreement or to consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement (except for the execution and filing of the appropriate merger documents as required by the MGCL).  Each of Stanley and Merger Sub has duly executed and delivered this Agreement and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by Black & Decker, this Agreement constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 3.04.  
.
Authority; Execution and Delivery; Enforceability
Exhibit B
Articles Amendment
Share Issuance
Stanley Shareholders Meeting
Stanley Shareholder Approval
Stanley Articles Amendment Approval
 
 
10
Table of Contents
 
(b)  The Stanley Board has adopted such resolutions as are necessary to render inapplicable to any transaction occurring after the Effective Time the provisions of Section 33-844 of the CBCA to any holder of Black & Decker Common Stock that becomes an interested shareholder of Stanley (as defined in Section 33-843 of the CBCA) as a result of such holders receipt of the Merger Consideration.  No other interested shareholder, fair price, moratorium, control share acquisition or other similar antitakeover statute or similar statute or regulation, or similar provision or term of the Stanley Articles or Stanley Bylaws, applies with respect to Stanley or Merger Sub with respect to this Agreement, the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
(c)  Stanley will take all action necessary such that the consummation of the Merger and the Share Issuance shall be exempt from the terms of the Rights Agreement.  Neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary has in effect a poison pill, shareholder rights plan or other similar plan or agreement other than the Rights Agreement.
 
                     (a)  The execution and delivery by each of Stanley and Merger Sub of this Agreement does not, and the performance by it of its obligations hereunder and the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not, (i) conflict with or result in any violation of any provision of the Stanley Articles, the Stanley Bylaws or the comparable charter, bylaws or other organizational documents of any Stanley Subsidiary (assuming that the Stanley Shareholder Approval is obtained), (ii) conflict with, or result in any violation of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of, give rise to any obligation to make an offer to purchase or redeem any Indebtedness or capital stock or any loss of a material benefit under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary under, any legally binding contract, lease, license, indenture, note, bond, agreement, concession, franchise or other instrument (a ) to which Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary is a party or by which any of their respective properties or assets is bound or any Stanley Permit or (iii) subject to the filings and other matters referred to in Section 3.05(b), conflict with or result in any violation of any judgment, order or decree () or statute, law (including common law), ordinance, rule or regulation (), in each case, applicable to Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary or their respective properties or assets (assuming that the Stanley Shareholder Approval is obtained), other than, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, any matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect and would not prevent or materially impede, interfere with, hinder or delay the consummation of the Merger.
 SECTION 3.05.  
.
No Conflicts; Consents
Contract
Judgment
Law
 
11
Table of Contents
 
(b)  No consent, approval, clearance, waiver, waiting period expiration, Permit or order () of or from, or registration, declaration, notice or filing made to or with any Federal, national, state, provincial or local, whether domestic or foreign, government or any court of competent jurisdiction, administrative agency or commission or other governmental authority or instrumentality, whether domestic, foreign or supranational (a ), is required to be obtained or made by or with respect to Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or its performance of its obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, other than (i) (A) the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ) of the Joint Proxy Statement in definitive form, (B) the filing with the SEC, and declaration of effectiveness under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), of the registration statement on Form S-4 in connection with the issuance by Stanley of the Merger Consideration, in which the Joint Proxy Statement will be included as a prospectus (the ), and (C) the filing with the SEC of such reports under, and such other compliance with, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ), and the Securities Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder, as may be required in connection with this Agreement, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) compliance with and filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the ), and such other Consents, registrations, declarations, notices or filings as are required to be made or obtained under any foreign antitrust, competition, trade regulation or similar Laws, (iii) the filing of the Articles of Merger with, and acceptance for record by, the SDAT and appropriate documents with the relevant authorities of the other jurisdictions in which Stanley and Black & Decker are qualified to do business, (iv) such Consents, registrations, declarations, notices or filings as are required to be made or obtained under the securities or blue sky laws of various states in connection with the issuance of the Merger Consideration, (v) such Consents from, or registrations, declarations, notices or filings made to or with, any Governmental Entities (other than with respect to securities, antitrust, competition, trade regulation or similar Laws), in each case as may be required in connection with this Agreement, the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (vi) such filings with and approvals of the NYSE as are required to permit the listing of the Merger Consideration and (vii) such other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect and would not prevent or materially impede, interfere with, hinder or delay the consummation of the Merger.
Consent
Governmental Entity
SEC
Securities Act
Form S-4
Exchange Act
HSR Act
 
                          (a)  Stanley has furnished or filed all reports, schedules, forms, statements and other documents (including exhibits and other information incorporated therein) required to be furnished or filed by Stanley with the SEC since December 30, 2007 (such documents, together with any documents filed with or furnished to the SEC during such period by Stanley on a voluntary basis on a Current Report on Form 8-K, but excluding the Joint Proxy Statement and the Form S-4, being collectively referred to as the ).
SECTION 3.06.  
.
SEC Documents; Undisclosed Liabilities
Stanley SEC Documents
 
12
Table of Contents
 
(b)  Each Stanley SEC Document (i) at the time filed, complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 () and the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, as the case may be, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to such Stanley SEC Document and (ii) did not at the time it was filed (or if amended or superseded by a filing or amendment prior to the date of this Agreement, then at the time of such filing or amendment) contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Each of the consolidated financial statements of Stanley included in the Stanley SEC Documents complied at the time it was filed as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, was prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles () (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and fairly presented in all material respects the consolidated financial position of Stanley and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods shown (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments).
SOX
GAAP
 
(c)  Neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary has any liabilities or obligations of any nature (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise) that, individually or in the aggregate, have had or would reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.
 
(d)  Each of the chief executive officer of Stanley and the chief financial officer of Stanley (or each former chief executive officer of Stanley and each former chief financial officer of Stanley, as applicable) has made all applicable certifications required by Rule 13a-14 or 15d-14 under the Exchange Act and Sections 302 and 906 of SOX with respect to the Stanley SEC Documents, and the statements contained in such certifications are true and accurate.  For purposes of this Agreement, chief executive officer and chief financial officer shall have the meanings given to such terms in SOX.  None of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries has outstanding, or has arranged any outstanding, extensions of credit to directors or executive officers within the meaning of Section 402 of SOX.
 
(e)  Stanley maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) sufficient to provide reasonable assurance (i) that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP, consistently applied, (ii) that transactions are executed only in accordance with the authorization of management and (iii) regarding prevention or timely detection of the unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Stanleys properties or assets.
 
(f)  The disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) utilized by Stanley are reasonably designed to ensure that all information (both financial and non-financial) required to be disclosed by Stanley in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC and that all such information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to the management of Stanley, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and to enable the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of Stanley to make the certifications required under the Exchange Act with respect to such reports.
 
 
13
Table of Contents
 
(g)  Neither Stanley nor any of the Stanley Subsidiaries is a party to, or has any commitment to become a party to, any joint venture, off-balance sheet partnership or any similar Contract (including any Contract or arrangement relating to any transaction or relationship between or among Stanley and any of the Stanley Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and any unconsolidated Affiliate, including any structured finance, special purpose or limited purpose entity or Person, on the other hand, or any off-balance-sheet arrangements (as defined in Item 303(a) of Regulation S-K under the Exchange Act)), where the result, purpose or intended effect of such Contract is to avoid disclosure of any material transaction involving, or material liabilities of, Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries in Stanleys or such Stanley Subsidiarys published financial statements or other Stanley SEC Documents.
 
(h)  Since January 4, 2009, none of Stanley, Stanleys independent accountants, the Stanley Board or the audit committee of the Stanley Board has received any oral or written notification of any (i) significant deficiency in the internal controls over financial reporting of Stanley, (ii) material weakness in the internal controls over financial reporting of Stanley or (iii) fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees of Stanley who have a significant role in the internal controls over financial reporting of Stanley.  For purposes of this Agreement, the terms significant deficiency and material weakness shall have the meanings assigned to them in Auditing Standard No. 5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
 
(i)  None of the Stanley Subsidiaries is, or has at any time since December 30, 2007 been, subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
                          None of the information supplied or to be supplied by Stanley or Merger Sub for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (i) the Form S-4 will, at the time the Form S-4 is filed with the SEC, at any time it is amended or supplemented or at the time it is declared effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) the Joint Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to each of Stanleys shareholders and Black & Deckers stockholders or at the time of each of the Stanley Shareholders Meeting and the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.  The Form S-4 will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, except that no representation is made by Stanley or Merger Sub with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by Black & Decker for inclusion or incorporation by reference therein.  The Joint Proxy Statement will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, except that no representation is made by Stanley or Merger Sub with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by Black & Decker for inclusion or incorporation by reference therein.
SECTION 3.07.  
.
Information Supplied
 
 
14
Table of Contents
 
                          From January 4, 2009 to the date of this Agreement, each of Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries has conducted its respective business in the ordinary course in all material respects, and during such period there has not occurred:
SECTION 3.08.  
.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
 
(a)  any event or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect;
 
(b)  any authorization, declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, stock or property or any combination thereof) in respect of any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley or the capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, any of the Stanley Subsidiaries (other than (i) regular quarterly cash dividends in an amount not exceeding $0.33 per share of Stanley Common Stock and (ii) dividends or other distributions by a direct or indirect wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary to its shareholders or other equity holders) or any repurchase for value by Stanley of any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley or the capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, any of the Stanley Subsidiaries;
 
(c)  any split, reverse split, combination, subdivision or reclassification of any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley, securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley or any issuance or the authorization of any issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley;
 
(d)  any incurrence of material Indebtedness for borrowed money or any guarantee of such Indebtedness for another Person (other than Stanley or a wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary), or any issue or sale of debt securities, warrants or other rights to acquire any debt security of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary other than Indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(e)  (i) any transfer, lease, license, sale, mortgage, pledge or other disposal or encumbrance of any of Stanleys or Stanleys Subsidiaries property or assets outside of the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice with a fair market value in excess of (in the aggregate, for all such transactions) $25,000,000 or (ii) any acquisitions of businesses, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of property or assets or otherwise;
 
(f)  except as required to comply with applicable Law or to comply with any Stanley Benefit Plan (including any award agreement thereunder) in effect as of January 4, 2009, any (i) establishing, adopting, entering into, terminating or amending, or taking of any action to accelerate the vesting or payment of, any compensation or benefits under, any material collective bargaining agreement or Stanley Benefit Plan (or any award thereunder); , that with respect to the amendment of a Stanley Benefit Plan that is an employee welfare benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA), this clause (i) shall apply only to material amendments of such plan, (ii) increasing in any material respect the compensation or benefits of, or paying any discretionary bonus of any kind or amount whatsoever to, any current or former director, officer, employee or independent contractor of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, except for increases in regular cash compensation in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice for employees of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary who are not executive officers, (iii) paying of any benefit or amount not required under any Stanley Benefit Plan as in effect January 4, 2009, (iv) granting or paying of any change in control, retention, severance or termination compensation or benefits, (v) taking of any action to fund or in any other way secure the payment of compensation or benefits under any Stanley Benefit Plan, (vi) changing of any actuarial or other assumption used to calculate funding obligations with respect to any Stanley Pension Plan or (vii) changing the manner in which contributions to any Stanley Pension Plan are made or the basis on which such contributions are determined;
provided
 
 
15
Table of Contents
 
(g)  any change in accounting methods, principles or practices by Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, except insofar as may have been required by a change in GAAP; or
 
(h)  (i) any material election with respect to Taxes, (ii) any changes to any such election or existing election, or (iii) any settlement or compromise by Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary of any material Tax liability or refund, other than, in each case, in the ordinary course of business.
 
                          (a)  (i)  Each of Stanley and each Stanley Subsidiary has timely filed, taking into account any extensions, all material Tax Returns required to have been filed and such Tax Returns are accurate and complete in all material respects; (ii) each of Stanley and each Stanley Subsidiary has paid all material Taxes required to have been paid by it other than Taxes that are not yet due or that are being contested in good faith in appropriate proceedings; and (iii) no deficiency for any Tax has been asserted or assessed by a taxing authority against Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary which deficiency has not been paid or is not being contested in good faith in appropriate proceedings.
SECTION 3.09.  
.
Taxes
 
(b)  No Tax Return of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary is under audit or examination by any taxing authority, and no written (or, to the Knowledge of Stanley, oral) notice of such an audit or examination has been received by Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary.  No deficiencies for any Taxes have been proposed, asserted or assessed against Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, and no requests for waivers of the time to assess any such Taxes are pending.  No other procedure, proceeding or contest of any refund or deficiency in respect of Taxes is pending in or on appeal from any Governmental Entity.
 
(c)  Each of Stanley and each Stanley Subsidiary has complied with all applicable Laws relating to the withholding and paying over of Taxes.
 
(d)  Neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary is a party to or is otherwise bound by any material Tax sharing, allocation or indemnification agreement or arrangement (other than such an agreement or arrangement exclusively between or among Stanley and wholly owned Stanley Subsidiaries).
 
 
16
Table of Contents
 
(e)  Within the past three years, neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary has been a distributing corporation or a controlled corporation in a distribution intended to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code.
 
(f)  Neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary has participated in or been a party to a transaction that, as of the date of this Agreement, constitutes a listed transaction for purposes of Section 6011 of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder (or a similar provision of state law).
 
(g)  Neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary has taken any action or knows of any fact that would reasonably be expected to prevent the Merger from qualifying for the Intended Tax Treatment.
 
(h)  No disallowance of a deduction under Section 162(m) or 280G of the Code for any amount paid or payable by Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary as employee compensation, whether under any contract, plan, program or arrangement, understanding or otherwise, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.
 
                      (a)  Stanley has delivered or made available to Black & Decker true and complete copies of (i) all material Stanley Benefit Plans or, in the case of any unwritten material Stanley Benefit Plan, a description thereof, including any amendment thereto, (ii) the most recent annual report on Form 5500 or such similar report, statement or information return required to be filed with or delivered to any Governmental Entity, if any, in each case, with respect to each material Stanley Benefit Plan, (iii) each trust, insurance, annuity or other funding Contract relating to any material Stanley Benefit Plan and (iv) the most recent financial statements and actuarial or other valuation reports for each Stanley Benefit Plan (if any).  For purposes of this Agreement,  means, collectively (A) all employee pension benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ()) (), employee welfare benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA) and all other material bonus, pension, profit sharing, retirement, deferred compensation, incentive compensation, equity or equity-based compensation, severance, retention, termination, change in control, disability, vacation, death benefit, hospitalization, medical or other material compensation or benefit plans, arrangements, policies, programs or understandings providing compensation or benefits (other than foreign or domestic statutory programs), in each case, sponsored, maintained, contributed to or required to be maintained or contributed to by Stanley, any Stanley Subsidiary or any other person or entity that, together with Stanley is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code (each, a ) for the benefit of any current or former directors, officers, employees, independent contractors or consultants of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary and (B) all material employment, consulting, bonus, incentive compensation, deferred compensation, equity or equity-based compensation, indemnification, severance, retention, change of control or termination agreements or arrangements (including collective bargaining agreements) between Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary and any current or former directors, officers, employees, independent contractors or consultants of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary.
SECTION 3.10.  
.
Benefits Matters; ERISA Compliance
Stanley Benefit Plans
ERISA
Stanley Pension Plans
Stanley Commonly Controlled Entity
 
 
17
Table of Contents
 
(b)  All Stanley Pension Plans have been the subject of, have timely applied for or have not been eligible to apply for, as of the date of this Agreement, determination letters or opinion letters (as applicable) from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the ) or a non-U.S. Governmental Entity (as applicable) to the effect that such Stanley Pension Plans and the trusts created thereunder are qualified and exempt from Taxes under Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Code or other applicable Law, and no such determination letter or opinion letter has been revoked nor, to the Knowledge of Stanley, has revocation been threatened, nor has any such Stanley Pension Plan been amended since the date of its most recent determination letter or opinion letter (or application therefor) in any respect that would adversely affect its qualification.
IRS
 
(c)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, (i) no Stanley Pension Plan, other than any Stanley Pension Plan that is a multiemployer plan within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA (a ), had, as of the respective last annual valuation date for each such Stanley Pension Plan, an unfunded benefit liability (within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA), based on actuarial assumptions that have been furnished to Black & Decker, (ii) none of the Stanley Pension Plans has failed to meet any minimum funding standards (as such term is defined in Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code), whether or not waived, (iii) none of such Stanley Benefit Plans or related trusts is the subject of any proceeding or investigation by any Person, including any Governmental Entity, that could be reasonably expected to result in a termination of such Stanley Benefit Plan or trust or any other material liability to Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, (iv) there has not been any reportable event (as that term is defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and as to which the notice requirement under Section 4043 of ERISA has not been waived) with respect to any Stanley Benefit Plan during the last six years and (v) none of Stanley, any Stanley Subsidiary or any Stanley Commonly Controlled Entity has, or within the past six years had, contributed to, been required to contribute to, or has any liability (including withdrawal liability within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA) with respect to, any Stanley Multiemployer Pension Plan.
Stanley Multiemployer Pension Plan
 
(d)  With respect to each material Stanley Benefit Plan that is an employee welfare benefit plan, such Stanley Benefit Plan (including any Stanley Benefit Plan covering retirees or other former employees) may be amended to reduce benefits or limit the liability of Stanley or the Stanley Subsidiaries or terminated, in each case, without material liability to Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries on or at any time after the Effective Time.
 
(e)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, no Stanley Benefit Plan provides health, medical or other welfare benefits after retirement or other termination of employment (other than for continuation coverage required under Section 4980(B)(f) of the Code or applicable Law).
 
(f)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, (i) each Stanley Benefit Plan and its related trust, insurance contract or other funding vehicle has been administered in accordance with its terms and is in compliance with ERISA, the Code and all other Laws applicable to such Stanley Benefit Plan and (ii) Stanley and each of the Stanley Subsidiaries is in compliance with ERISA, the Code and all other Laws applicable to the Stanley Benefit Plans.
 
 
18
Table of Contents
 
(g)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, all contributions or other amounts payable by Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary with respect to each Stanley Benefit Plan have been paid or accrued in accordance with the terms of such Stanley Benefit Plan, GAAP and Section 412 of the Code (or any comparable provision under applicable non-U.S. Laws).  Except as fully accrued or reserved against on Stanleys financial statements in accordance with GAAP, there are no material unfunded liabilities, solvency deficiencies or wind-up liabilities, where applicable, with respect to any Stanley Benefit Plan.
 
(h)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, there are no pending or, to the Knowledge of Stanley, threatened claims, suits or proceedings by or on behalf of any participant in any of the Stanley Benefit Plans, or otherwise involving any such Stanley Benefit Plan or the assets of any Stanley Benefit Plan, other than routine claims for benefits payable in the ordinary course.
 
(i)  None of the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the obtaining of the Stanley Shareholder Approval or the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval or the consummation of the Merger or any other transaction contemplated by this Agreement (alone or in conjunction with any other event, including any termination of employment on or following the Effective Time) will (i) entitle any current or former director, officer, employee, independent contractor or consultant of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries to any compensation or benefit, (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting, or trigger any payment or funding, of any compensation or benefits or trigger any other material obligation under any Stanley Benefit Plan or (iii) result in any breach or violation of, default under or limit Stanleys right to amend, modify or terminate any Stanley Benefit Plan.  No director, officer, employee or independent contractor of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary is entitled to receive any gross-up or additional payment in respect of any Taxes (including without limitation the Taxes required under Section 409A or Section 4999 of the Code) being imposed on such Person.
 
                          There is no suit, action or other proceeding pending or, to the Knowledge of Stanley, threatened against or affecting Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, nor is there any Judgment outstanding against or, to the Knowledge of Stanley, any investigation by any Governmental Entity involving Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary or any of their respective properties or assets that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.11.  
.
Litigation
 
                      Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable Laws and Stanley Permits, including all applicable rules, regulations, directives or policies of any Governmental Entity.  To the Knowledge of Stanley, except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, no material action, demand or investigation by or before any Governmental Entity is pending or threatened alleging that Stanley or a Stanley Subsidiary is not in compliance with any applicable Law or Stanley Permit or which challenges or questions the validity of any rights of the holder of any Stanley Permit.  This section does not relate to Tax matters, employee benefits matters, environmental matters or Intellectual Property Rights matters.
SECTION 3.12.  
.
Compliance with Applicable Laws
 
 
19
Table of Contents
 
                      (a)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect:
SECTION 3.13.  
.
Environmental Matters
 
(i)  Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries are in compliance with all Environmental Laws, and neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary has received any written communication from a Governmental Entity that alleges that Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary is in violation of, or has liability under, any Environmental Law or any Permit issued pursuant to Environmental Law;
 
(ii)  Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries have obtained and are in compliance with all Permits issued pursuant to Environmental Law necessary for their respective operations as currently conducted, all such Permits are valid and in good standing and neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary has been advised in writing by any Governmental Entity of any actual or potential change in the status or terms and conditions of any such Permits;
 
(iii)  there are no Environmental Claims pending or, to the Knowledge of Stanley, threatened, against Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries;
 
(iv)  there have been no Releases of any Hazardous Material that could reasonably be expected to form the basis of any Environmental Claim against Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries or against any Person whose liabilities for such Environmental Claims Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries has, or may have, retained or assumed, either contractually or by operation of Law; and
 
(v)  neither Stanley nor any of the Stanley Subsidiaries has retained or assumed, either contractually or by operation of Law, any Known liabilities or obligations that could reasonably be expected to form the basis of any Environmental Claim against Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries.
 
                         (b)  As used herein:
 
(i)   means any administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, orders, demands, directives, claims, liens, investigations, proceedings or written or oral notices of noncompliance or violation by or from any Person alleging liability of whatever kind or nature arising out of, based on or resulting from (A) the presence or Release of, or exposure to, any Hazardous Materials at any location; or (B) the failure to comply with any Environmental Law or any Permit issued pursuant to Environmental Law.
Environmental Claim
 
20
Table of Contents
 
(ii)   means all applicable Federal, national, state, provincial or local Laws, Judgments, or Contracts issued, promulgated or entered into by or with any Governmental Entity, relating to pollution, natural resources or protection of endangered or threatened species, climate, human health or the environment (including ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata).
Environmental Laws
 
(iii)   means (A) any petroleum or petroleum products, explosive or radioactive materials or wastes, asbestos in any form, and polychlorinated biphenyls; and (B) any other chemical, material, substance or waste that is prohibited, limited or regulated under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
 
(iv)   means any actual or threatened release, spill, emission, leaking, dumping, injection, pouring, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching or migration into or through the environment (including ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or within any building, structure, facility or fixture.
Release
 
                          (a)  As of the date of this Agreement, neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary is a party to any Contract required to be filed by Stanley pursuant to Item 601(b)(2), (b)(4), (b)(9) or (b)(10) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act (a ) that has not been so filed.
SECTION 3.14.  
.
Contracts
Filed Stanley Contract
 
(b)  Section 3.14 of the Stanley Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date of this Agreement, a true and complete list, and Stanley has made available to Black & Decker true and complete copies, of (i) each agreement, understanding or undertaking to which Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries is a party that restricts in any material respect the ability of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries to compete in any business or with any Person in any geographical area, (ii) each loan and credit agreement, note, debenture, bond, indenture or other similar agreement pursuant to which any Indebtedness of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries is outstanding or may be incurred, other than any such agreement between or among Stanley and the wholly owned Stanley Subsidiaries and (iii) each partnership, joint venture or similar agreement or understanding to which Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries is a party relating to the formation, creation, operation, management or control of any partnership or joint venture material to Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.  Each agreement, understanding or undertaking of the type described in this Section 3.14(b) and each Filed Stanley Contract is referred to herein as a .
Stanley Material Contract
 
(c)  Except for matters which, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, (i) each Stanley Material Contract (including, for purposes of this Section 3.14(c), any Contract entered into after the date of this Agreement that would have been a Stanley Material Contract if such Contract existed on the date of this Agreement) is a valid, binding and legally enforceable obligation of Stanley or one of the Stanley Subsidiaries, as the case may be, and, to the Knowledge of Stanley, of the other parties thereto, except, in each case, as enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar Laws affecting creditors rights generally and by general principles of equity, (ii) each such Stanley Material Contract is in full force and effect and (iii) none of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries is (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) in breach or default under any such Stanley Material Contract and, to the Knowledge of Stanley, no other party to any such Stanley Material Contract is (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) in breach or default thereunder.
 
 
21
Table of Contents
 
                         (a)  Stanley and each Stanley Subsidiary has good and valid title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all their respective properties and assets, except in respects that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.  All such properties and assets, other than properties and assets in which Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries has leasehold interests, are free and clear of all Liens, except for Liens that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.  This Section 3.15 does not relate to Intellectual Property Rights matters, which are the subject of Section 3.16.
 SECTION 3.15.  
.
Properties
 
(b)  Stanley and each of the Stanley Subsidiaries has complied with the terms of all leases to which it is a party, and all leases to which Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary is a party and under which it is in possession are in full force and effect, except for such noncompliance or failure to be in full force and effect that, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.  Stanley and each Stanley Subsidiary is in possession of the properties or assets purported to be leased under all its leases, except for such failures to have such possession as, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.
 
                          Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries own, or are validly licensed or otherwise have the right to use, all patents, patent applications, patent rights, trademarks, trademark rights, trade names, trade name rights, service marks, service mark rights, copyrights and other proprietary intellectual property rights and any such rights in computer programs (collectively, ) as used in their business as presently conducted, except where the failure to have the right to use such Intellectual Property Rights, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.  No actions, suits or other proceedings are pending or, to the Knowledge of Stanley, threatened that Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries is infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the rights of any Person with regard to any Intellectual Property Right, except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.  To the Knowledge of Stanley, no Person is infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the rights of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries with respect to any Intellectual Property Right owned by Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries, except for such infringement, misappropriation or violation that, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.16.  
.
Intellectual Property
Intellectual Property Rights
 
                         Section 3.17 of the Stanley Disclosure Letter sets forth a true and complete list of all material collective bargaining or other labor union Contracts applicable to any employees of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries.  Neither Stanley nor any of the Stanley Subsidiaries has breached or otherwise failed to comply with any provision of any collective bargaining agreement or other labor union Contract applicable to any employees of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries, except for any breaches, failures to comply or disputes that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, (a) there is not any, and during the past three years there has not been any, labor strike, dispute, work stoppage or lockout pending, or, to the Knowledge of Stanley, threatened, against or affecting Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary; (b) to the Knowledge of Stanley, no union organizational campaign is in progress with respect to the employees of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary and no question concerning representation of such employees exists; (c) neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary is engaged in any unfair labor practice; (d) there are not any unfair labor practice charges or complaints against Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary pending, or, to the Knowledge of Stanley, threatened, before the National Labor Relations Board; (e) there are not any pending, or, to the Knowledge of Stanley, threatened, union grievances against Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary that reasonably could be expected to result in an adverse determination; (f) Stanley and each Stanley Subsidiary is in compliance with all applicable Laws with respect to labor relations, employment and employment practices, occupational safety and health standards, terms and conditions of employment, payment of wages, classification of employees, immigration, visa, work status, pay equity and workers compensation; and (g) neither Stanley nor any Stanley Subsidiary has received written or oral communication during the past three years of the intent of any Governmental Entity responsible for the enforcement of labor or employment laws to conduct an investigation of or affecting Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary and, to the Knowledge of Stanley, no such investigation is in progress.
SECTION 3.17.  
.
Labor Matters
 
 
22
Table of Contents
 
                          No broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other Person, other than Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Goldman Sachs & Co. (the ), the fees and expenses of which will be paid by Stanley, is entitled to any brokers, finders, financial advisors or other similar fee or commission in connection with the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Stanley.  Stanley has furnished to Black & Decker true and complete copies of all agreements between or among Stanley and/or Merger Sub and the Stanley Financial Advisors relating to the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
SECTION 3.18.  
.
Brokers Fees and Expenses
Stanley Financial Advisors
 
                          Stanley has received an opinion from each of the Stanley Financial Advisors, in each case dated the date of this Agreement, to the effect that, as of such date, the Exchange Ratio is fair to Stanley from a financial point of view.
SECTION 3.19.  
.
Opinions of Financial Advisors
 
                          Stanley is the sole stockholder of Merger Sub.  Since its date of incorporation, Merger Sub has not carried on any business nor conducted any operations other than the execution of this Agreement, the performance of its obligations hereunder and matters ancillary thereto.
SECTION 3.20.  
.
Merger Sub
 
                          Except for the representations and warranties contained in this Article III, Black & Decker acknowledges that none of Stanley, the Stanley Subsidiaries or any other Person on behalf of Stanley makes any other express or implied representation or warranty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
SECTION 3.21.  
.
No Other Representations or Warranties
 
 
23
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Black & Decker represents and warrants to Stanley and Merger Sub that the statements contained in this Article IV are true and correct except as set forth in the Black & Decker SEC Documents filed and publicly available prior to the date of this Agreement (the ) (excluding any disclosures in the Filed Black & Decker SEC Documents under the heading Risk Factors and any other disclosures of risks that are predictive or forward-looking in nature) or in the disclosure letter delivered by Black & Decker to Stanley at or before the execution and delivery by Black & Decker of this Agreement (the ).  The Black & Decker Disclosure Letter shall be arranged in numbered and lettered sections corresponding to the numbered and lettered sections contained in this Article IV, and the disclosure in any section shall be deemed to qualify other sections in this Article IV to the extent (and only to the extent) that it is reasonably apparent from the face of such disclosure that such disclosure also qualifies or applies to such other sections.
Filed Black & Decker SEC Documents
Black & Decker Disclosure Letter
 
                          Each of Black & Decker and each of Black & Deckers Subsidiaries (the ) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized (in the case of good standing, to the extent such jurisdiction recognizes such concept), except, in the case of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, where the failure to be so organized, existing or in good standing, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.  Each of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries has all requisite power and authority and possesses all Permits necessary to enable it to own, lease or otherwise hold its properties and assets and to conduct its businesses as presently conducted (the ), except where the failure to have such power or authority or to possess Black & Decker Permits, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.  Each of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is duly qualified or licensed to do business in each jurisdiction where the nature of its business or the ownership or leasing of its properties make such qualification necessary, other than in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.  Black & Decker has delivered or made available to Stanley, prior to execution of this Agreement, true and complete copies of the charter of Black & Decker in effect as of the date of this Agreement (the ) and the bylaws of Black & Decker in effect as of the date of this Agreement (the ).
SECTION 4.01.  
.
Organization, Standing and Power
Black & Decker Subsidiaries
Black & Decker Permits
Black & Decker Articles
Black & Decker Bylaws
 
                          (a)  All the outstanding shares of capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, each Black & Decker Subsidiary have been validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable and are (other than directors qualifying shares and shares held by natural persons pursuant to requirements of Law of non-U.S. jurisdictions) owned by Black & Decker, by another Black & Decker Subsidiary or by Black & Decker and another Black & Decker Subsidiary, free and clear of all Liens, and free of any other restriction (including any restriction on the right to vote, sell or otherwise dispose of such capital stock, voting securities or other equity interests), except for restrictions imposed by applicable securities Laws.  Black & Decker has provided to Stanley a true and complete list of all Black & Decker Subsidiaries as of the date of this Agreement.
SECTION 4.02.  
.
Black & Decker Subsidiaries
 
 
24
Table of Contents
 
(b)  Except for the capital stock and voting securities of, and other equity interests in, the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary owns, directly or indirectly, any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, or any interest convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for, any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, any firm, corporation, partnership, company, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association or other entity.
 
                          (a)  The authorized stock of Black & Decker consists of 150,000,000 shares of Black & Decker Common Stock and 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  and, together with the Black & Decker Common Stock, the ).  At the close of business on October 28, 2009, (i) 60,233,702 shares of Black & Decker Common Stock were issued and outstanding, of which 671,408 were Black & Decker Restricted Shares, (ii) no shares of Black & Decker Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding, (iii) 8,308,247 shares of Black & Decker Common Stock were reserved and available for issuance pursuant to the Black & Decker Stock Plans, of which (A) 5,967,957 shares were issuable upon exercise of outstanding Black & Decker Stock Options, (B) no shares were subject to outstanding Black & Decker LSARs, (C) 627,425 shares were subject to outstanding Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units and (D) no shares were subject to outstanding Black & Decker Performance Share Units (assuming settlement of outstanding awards based on maximum achievement of applicable performance goals) (together with outstanding Black & Decker Restricted Shares, Black & Decker LSARs, Black & Decker Stock Options and Black & Decker Performance Share Units, ), and (iv) 136,984 shares of Black & Decker Common Stock were payable pursuant to the Black & Decker Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors ().  Except as set forth in this Section 4.03(a), at the close of business on October 28, 2009, no shares of stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker were issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding.  From the close of business on October 28, 2009 to the date of this Agreement, there have been no issuances by Black & Decker of shares of stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker, other than the issuance of Black & Decker Common Stock (A) upon the exercise of Black & Decker Stock Options outstanding at the close of business on October 28, 2009, (B) upon the vesting of Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units or Black & Decker Performance Share Units outstanding at the close of business on October 28, 2009 or (C) pursuant to the Black & Decker Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, in each case in accordance with their terms in effect on October 28, 2009.
SECTION 4.03.  
.
Capital Structure
Black & Decker Preferred Stock
Black & Decker Capital Stock
Black & Decker Stock-Based Awards
Black & Decker Directors Deferred Compensation Plan
 
(b)  All outstanding shares of Black & Decker Capital Stock are, and, at the time of issuance, all such shares that may be issued upon the exercise of Black & Decker Stock Options or upon the vesting of Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units or Black & Decker Performance Share Units or pursuant to the Black & Decker Directors Deferred Compensation Plan will be, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and not subject to, or issued in violation of, any purchase option, call option, right of first refusal, preemptive right, subscription right or any similar right under any provision of the MGCL, the Black & Decker Articles, the Black & Decker Bylaws or any Contract to which Black & Decker is a party or otherwise bound.  Except as set forth in this Section 4.03, as of the close of business on October 28, 2009, there are not issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding, and there are not any outstanding obligations of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, (i) any capital stock of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any securities of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, (ii) any warrants, calls, options or other rights to acquire from Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, or any other obligation of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary or (iii) any rights issued by or other obligations of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary that are linked in any way to the price of any class of Black & Decker Capital Stock or any shares of capital stock of any Black & Decker Subsidiary, the value of Black & Decker, any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any part of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any dividends or other distributions declared or paid on any shares of capital stock of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary.  Except as set forth above in this Section 4.03 or in connection with Black & Decker Stock-Based Awards, as of the close of business on October 28, 2009, there are not any outstanding obligations of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of capital stock or voting securities or other equity interests of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any securities, interests, warrants, calls, options or other rights referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence.  With respect to Black & Decker Stock Options, (A) each grant of a Black & Decker Stock Option was duly authorized no later than the Grant Date for such option by all necessary corporate action, including, as applicable, approval by the Board of Directors of Black & Decker (the ) (or a duly constituted and authorized committee thereof), and the award agreement governing such grant was duly executed and delivered by each party thereto, and (B) the per share exercise price of each Black & Decker Stock Option was at least equal to the fair market value of a share of Black & Decker Common Stock on the applicable Grant Date.  There are no debentures, bonds, notes or other Indebtedness of Black & Decker having the right to vote (or convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which stockholders of Black & Decker may vote ().  Neither Black & Decker nor any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is a party to any voting agreement with respect to the voting of any stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker.  Except for this Agreement, neither Black & Decker nor any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is a party to any agreement pursuant to which any Person is entitled to elect, designate or nominate any director of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries.
Black & Decker Board
Black & Decker Voting Debt
 
 
25
Table of Contents
 
                          (a)  Black & Decker has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, to perform its obligations hereunder and to consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, subject, in the case of the Merger, to the receipt of the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval.  The Black & Decker Board, by a vote at a meeting duly called at which a quorum of directors of Black & Decker was present, adopted resolutions (i) approving this Agreement, (ii) declaring advisable the Merger on substantially the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and determining that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement are in the best interests of Black & Decker and its stockholders, (iii) recommending that Black & Deckers stockholders approve the Merger and directing that the Merger be submitted to Black & Deckers stockholders for approval at a duly held meeting of such stockholders for such purpose (the ) and (iv) approving, effective as of the Effective Time, the amendment and restatement of the Black & Decker Articles, and such resolutions have not been amended or withdrawn as of the date of this Agreement.  Except for the approval of the Merger by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of Black & Decker Common Stock at the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting (the ), no other corporate proceedings on the part of Black & Decker are necessary to authorize or adopt this Agreement or to consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement (except for the filing of the appropriate merger documents as required by the MGCL).  Black & Decker has duly executed and delivered this Agreement and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by each of Stanley and Merger Sub, this Agreement constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 4.04.  
.
Authority; Execution and Delivery; Enforceability
Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting
Black & Decker Stockholder Approval
 
 
26
Table of Contents
 
(b)  The Black & Decker Board has adopted a resolution to exempt the Merger provided for by this Agreement from Title 3, Subtitle 6 of the MGCL.  No other interested stockholder fair price, moratorium, control share acquisition or other similar antitakeover statute or similar statute or regulation (including Title 3, Subtitle 7 of the MGCL), or similar provision or term of the Black & Decker Articles or Black & Decker Bylaws, applies with respect to Black & Decker with respect to this Agreement, the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
(c)  Neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary has in effect a poison pill, stockholder rights plan or other similar plan or agreement.
 
                          (a)  The execution and delivery by Black & Decker of this Agreement does not, and the performance by it of its obligations hereunder and the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not, (i) conflict with or result in any violation of any provision of the Black & Decker Articles, the Black & Decker Bylaws or the comparable charter, bylaws or other organizational documents of any Black & Decker Subsidiary (assuming that the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval is obtained), (ii) conflict with, result in any violation of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of, give rise to any obligation to make an offer to purchase or redeem any Indebtedness or capital stock or any loss of a material benefit under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary under, any legally binding Contract to which Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary is a party or by which any of their respective properties or assets is bound or any Black & Decker Permit or (iii) subject to the filings and other matters referred to in Section 4.05(b), conflict with or result in any violation of any Judgment or Law, in each case, applicable to Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary or their respective properties or assets (assuming that the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval is obtained), other than, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, any matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect and would not prevent or materially impede, interfere with, hinder or delay the consummation of the Merger.
SECTION 4.05.  
.
No Conflicts; Consents
 
 
27
Table of Contents
 
(b)  No Consent of or from, or registration, declaration, notice or filing made to or with any Governmental Entity is required to be obtained or made by or with respect to Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or its performance of its obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, other than (i) (A) the filing with the SEC of the Joint Proxy Statement in definitive form, (B) the filing with the SEC, and declaration of effectiveness under the Securities Act, of the Form S-4, and (C) the filing with the SEC of such reports under, and such other compliance with, the Exchange Act and the Securities Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder, as may be required in connection with this Agreement, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) compliance with and filings under the HSR Act, and such other Consents, registrations, declarations, notices or filings as are required to be made or obtained under any foreign antitrust, competition, trade regulation or similar Laws, (iii) the filing of the Articles of Merger with, and acceptance for record by, the SDAT and appropriate documents with the relevant authorities of the other jurisdictions in which Stanley and Black & Decker are qualified to do business, (iv) such Consents, registrations, declarations, notices or filings as are required to be made or obtained under the securities or blue sky laws of various states in connection with the issuance of the Merger Consideration, (v) such Consents from, or registrations, declarations, notices or filings made to or with, any Governmental Entities (other than with respect to securities, antitrust, competition, trade regulation or similar Laws), in each case as may be required in connection with this Agreement, the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (vi) such filings with and approvals of the NYSE as are required to permit the listing of the Merger Consideration and (vii) such other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect and would not prevent or materially impede, interfere with, hinder or delay the consummation of the Merger.
 
                          (a)  Black & Decker has furnished or filed all reports, schedules, forms, statements and other documents (including exhibits and other information incorporated therein) required to be furnished or filed by Black & Decker with the SEC since January 1, 2008 (such documents, together with any documents filed with or furnished to the SEC during such period by Black & Decker on a voluntary basis on a Current Report on Form 8-K, but excluding the Joint Proxy Statement and the Form S-4, being collectively referred to as the ).
SECTION 4.06.  
.
SEC Documents; Undisclosed Liabilities
Black & Decker SEC Documents
 
(b)  Each Black & Decker SEC Document (i) at the time filed, complied in all material respects with the requirements of SOX and the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, as the case may be, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to such Black & Decker SEC Document and (ii) did not at the time it was filed (or if amended or superseded by a filing or amendment prior to the date of this Agreement, then at the time of such filing or amendment) contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Each of the consolidated financial statements of Black & Decker included in the Black & Decker SEC Documents complied at the time it was filed as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, was prepared in accordance with GAAP (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and fairly presented in all material respects the consolidated financial position of Black & Decker and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods shown (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments).
 
28
Table of Contents
 
(c)  Neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary has any liabilities or obligations of any nature (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise) that, individually or in the aggregate, have had or would reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.
 
(d)  Each of the chief executive officer of Black & Decker and the chief financial officer of Black & Decker (or each former chief executive officer of Black & Decker and each former chief financial officer of Black & Decker, as applicable) has made all applicable certifications required by Rule 13a-14 or 15d-14 under the Exchange Act and Sections 302 and 906 of SOX with respect to the Black & Decker SEC Documents, and the statements contained in such certifications are true and accurate.  None of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries has outstanding, or has arranged any outstanding, extensions of credit to directors or executive officers within the meaning of Section 402 of SOX.
 
(e)  Black & Decker maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) sufficient to provide reasonable assurance (i) that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP, consistently applied, (ii) that transactions are executed only in accordance with the authorization of management and (iii) regarding prevention or timely detection of the unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Black & Deckers properties or assets.
 
(f)  The disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) utilized by Black & Decker are reasonably designed to ensure that all information (both financial and non-financial) required to be disclosed by Black & Decker in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC and that all such information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to the management of Black & Decker, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and to enable the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of Black & Decker to make the certifications required under the Exchange Act with respect to such reports.
 
(g)  Neither Black & Decker nor any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is a party to, or has any commitment to become a party to, any joint venture, off-balance sheet partnership or any similar Contract (including any Contract or arrangement relating to any transaction or relationship between or among Black & Decker and any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and any unconsolidated Affiliate, including any structured finance, special purpose or limited purpose entity or Person, on the other hand, or any off-balance sheet arrangements (as defined in Item 303(a) of Regulation S-K under the Exchange Act)), where the result, purpose or intended effect of such Contract is to avoid disclosure of any material transaction involving, or material liabilities of, Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries in Black & Deckers or such Black & Decker Subsidiarys published financial statements or other Black & Decker SEC Documents.
 
29
Table of Contents
 
(h)  Since January 1, 2009, none of Black & Decker, Black & Deckers independent accountants, the Black & Decker Board or the audit committee of the Black & Decker Board has received any oral or written notification of any (i) significant deficiency in the internal controls over financial reporting of Black & Decker, (ii) material weakness in the internal controls over financial reporting of Black & Decker or (iii) fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees of Black & Decker who have a significant role in the internal controls over financial reporting of Black & Decker.
 
(i)  None of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is, or has at any time since January 1, 2008 been, subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
                         None of the information supplied or to be supplied by Black & Decker for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (i) the Form S-4 will, at the time the Form S-4 is filed with the SEC, at any time it is amended or supplemented or at the time it is declared effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) the Joint Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to each of Stanleys shareholders and Black & Deckers stockholders or at the time of each of the Stanley Shareholders Meeting and the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.  The Joint Proxy Statement will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, except that no representation is made by Black & Decker with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by Stanley or Merger Sub for inclusion or incorporation by reference therein.
 SECTION 4.07.  
.
Information Supplied
 
                          From January 1, 2009 to the date of this Agreement, each of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries has conducted its respective business in the ordinary course in all material respects, and during such period there has not occurred:
SECTION 4.08.  
.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
 
(a)  any event or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect;
 
 
30
Table of Contents
 
(b)  any authorization, declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, stock or property or any combination thereof) in respect of any stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker or the capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries (other than (i) regular quarterly cash dividends in an amount not exceeding $0.42 per share of Black & Decker Common Stock in the first calendar quarter of 2009 and $0.12 per share of Black & Decker Common Stock in any calendar quarter thereafter and (ii) dividends or other distributions by a direct or indirect wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary to its shareholders or other equity holders) or any repurchase for value by Black & Decker of any stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker or the capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries;
 
(c)  any split, reverse split, combination, subdivision or reclassification of any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker, securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker or any issuance or the authorization of any issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker;
 
(d)  any incurrence of material Indebtedness for borrowed money or any guarantee of such Indebtedness for another Person (other than Black & Decker or a wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary), or any issue or sale of debt securities, warrants or other rights to acquire any debt security of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary other than Indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(e)  (i) any transfer, lease, license, sale, mortgage, pledge or other disposal or encumbrance of any of Black & Deckers or Black & Deckers Subsidiaries property or assets outside of the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice with a fair market value in excess of (in the aggregate, for all such transactions) $25,000,000 or (ii) any acquisitions of businesses, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of property or assets or otherwise;
 
(f)  except as required to comply with applicable Law or to comply with any Black & Decker Benefit Plan (including any award agreement thereunder) in effect as of January 1, 2009, any (i) establishing, adopting, entering into, terminating or amending, or taking of any action to accelerate the vesting or payment of, any compensation or benefits under, any material collective bargaining agreement or Black & Decker Benefit Plan (or any award thereunder); , that with respect to the amendment of a Black & Decker Benefit Plan that is an employee welfare benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA), this clause (i) shall apply only to material amendments of such plan, (ii) increasing in any material respect the compensation or benefits of, or paying any discretionary bonus of any kind or amount whatsoever to, any current or former director, officer, employee or independent contractor of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, except for increases in regular cash compensation in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice for employees of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary who are not executive officers, (iii) paying of any benefit or amount not required under any Black & Decker Benefit Plan as in effect January 1, 2009, (iv) granting or paying of any change in control, retention, severance or termination compensation or benefits, (v) taking of any action to fund or in any other way secure the payment of compensation or benefits under any Black & Decker Benefit Plan, (vi) changing of any actuarial or other assumption used to calculate funding obligations with respect to any Black & Decker Pension Plan or (vii) changing the manner in which contributions to any Black & Decker Pension Plan are made or the basis on which such contributions are determined;
provided
 
 
31
Table of Contents
 
(g)  any change in accounting methods, principles or practices by Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, except insofar as may have been required by a change in GAAP; or
 
(h)  (i) any material election with respect to Taxes, (ii) any changes to any such election or existing election, or (iii) any settlement or compromise by Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary of any material Tax liability or refund, other than, in each case, in the ordinary course of business.
 
                          (a)  (i)  Each of Black & Decker and each Black & Decker Subsidiary has timely filed, taking into account any extensions, all material Tax Returns required to have been filed and such Tax Returns are accurate and complete in all material respects; (ii) each of Black & Decker and each Black & Decker Subsidiary has paid all material Taxes required to have been paid by it other than Taxes that are not yet due or that are being contested in good faith in appropriate proceedings; and (iii) no deficiency for any Tax has been asserted or assessed by a taxing authority against Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary which deficiency has not been paid or is not being contested in good faith in appropriate proceedings.
SECTION 4.09.  
Taxes.
 
(b)  No Tax Return of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary is under audit or examination by any taxing authority, and no written (or, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, oral) notice of such an audit or examination has been received by Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary.  No deficiencies for any Taxes have been proposed, asserted or assessed against Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, and no requests for waivers of the time to assess any such Taxes are pending.  No other procedure, proceeding or contest of any refund or deficiency in respect of Taxes is pending in or on appeal from any Governmental Entity.
 
(c)  Each of Black & Decker and each Black & Decker Subsidiary has complied with all applicable Laws relating to the withholding and paying over of Taxes.
 
(d)  Neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary is a party to or is otherwise bound by any material Tax sharing, allocation or indemnification agreement or arrangement (other than such an agreement or arrangement exclusively between or among Black & Decker and wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiaries).
 
(e)  Within the past three years, neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary has been a distributing corporation or a controlled corporation in a distribution intended to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code.
 
(f)  Neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary has participated in or been a party to a transaction that, as of the date of this Agreement, constitutes a listed transaction for purposes of Section 6011 of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder (or a similar provision of state law).
 
 
32
Table of Contents
 
(g)  Neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary has taken any action or knows of any fact that would reasonably be expected to prevent the Merger from qualifying for the Intended Tax Treatment.
 
(h)  No disallowance of a deduction under Section 162(m) or 280G of the Code for any amount paid or payable by Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary as employee compensation, whether under any contract, plan, program or arrangement, understanding or otherwise, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.
 
                          (a)  Black & Decker has delivered or made available to Stanley true and complete copies of (i) all material Black & Decker Benefit Plans or, in the case of any unwritten material Black & Decker Benefit Plan, a description thereof, including any amendment thereto, (ii) the most recent annual report on Form 5500 or such similar report, statement or information return required to be filed with or delivered to any Governmental Entity, if any, in each case, with respect to each material Black & Decker Benefit Plan, (iii) each trust, insurance, annuity or other funding Contract relating to any material Black & Decker Benefit Plan and (iv) the most recent financial statements and actuarial or other valuation reports for each Black & Decker Benefit Plan (if any).  For purposes of this Agreement,  means, collectively (A) all employee pension benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA) (), employee welfare benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA) and all other material bonus, pension, profit sharing, retirement, deferred compensation, incentive compensation, equity or equity-based compensation, severance, retention, termination, change in control, disability, vacation, death benefit, hospitalization, medical or other material compensation or benefit plans, arrangements, policies, programs or understandings providing compensation or benefits (other than foreign or domestic statutory programs), in each case, sponsored, maintained, contributed to or required to be maintained or contributed to by Black & Decker, any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any other person or entity that, together with Black & Decker is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code (each, a ) for the benefit of any current or former directors, officers, employees, independent contractors or consultants of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary and (B) all material employment, consulting, bonus, incentive compensation, deferred compensation, equity or equity-based compensation, indemnification, severance, retention, change of control or termination agreements or arrangements (including collective bargaining agreements) between Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary and any current or former directors, officers, employees, independent contractors or consultants of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary.
SECTION 4.10.  
.
Benefits Matters; ERISA Compliance
Black & Decker Benefit Plans
Black & Decker Pension Plans
Black & Decker Commonly Controlled Entity
 
(b)  All Black & Decker Pension Plans have been the subject of, have timely applied for or have not been eligible to apply for, as of the date of this Agreement, determination letters or opinion letters (as applicable) from the IRS or a non-U.S. Governmental Entity (as applicable) to the effect that such Black & Decker Pension Plans and the trusts created thereunder are qualified and exempt from Taxes under Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Code or other applicable Law, and no such determination letter or opinion letter has been revoked nor, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, has revocation been threatened, nor has any such Black & Decker Pension Plan been amended since the date of its most recent determination letter or opinion letter (or application therefor) in any respect that would adversely affect its qualification.
 
33
Table of Contents
 
(c)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, (i) no Black & Decker Pension Plan, other than any Black & Decker Pension Plan that is a multiemployer plan within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA (a ), had, as of the respective last annual valuation date for each such Black & Decker Pension Plan, an unfunded benefit liability (within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA), based on actuarial assumptions that have been furnished to Stanley, (ii) none of the Black & Decker Pension Plans has failed to meet any minimum funding standards (as such term is defined in Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code), whether or not waived, (iii) none of such Black & Decker Benefit Plans or related trusts is the subject of any proceeding or investigation by any Person, including any Governmental Entity, that could be reasonably expected to result in a termination of such Black & Decker Benefit Plan or trust or any other material liability to Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, (iv) there has not been any reportable event (as that term is defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and as to which the notice requirement under Section 4043 of ERISA has not been waived) with respect to any Black & Decker Benefit Plan during the last six years and (v) none of Black & Decker, any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any Black & Decker Commonly Controlled Entity has, or within the past six years had, contributed to, been required to contribute to, or has any liability (including withdrawal liability within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA) with respect to, any Black & Decker Multiemployer Pension Plan.
Black & Decker Multiemployer Pension Plan
 
(d)  With respect to each material Black & Decker Benefit Plan that is an employee welfare benefit plan, such Black & Decker Benefit Plan (including any Black & Decker Benefit Plan covering retirees or other former employees) may be amended to reduce benefits or limit the liability of Black & Decker or the Black & Decker Subsidiaries or terminated, in each case, without material liability to Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries on or at any time after the Effective Time.
 
(e)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, no Black & Decker Benefit Plan provides health, medical or other welfare benefits after retirement or other termination of employment (other than for continuation coverage required under Section 4980(B)(f) of the Code or applicable Law).
 
(f)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, (i) each Black & Decker Benefit Plan and its related trust, insurance contract or other funding vehicle has been administered in accordance with its terms and is in compliance with ERISA, the Code and all other Laws applicable to such Black & Decker Benefit Plan and (ii) Black & Decker and each of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is in compliance with ERISA, the Code and all other Laws applicable to the Black & Decker Benefit Plans.
 
34
Table of Contents
 
(g)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, all contributions or other amounts payable by Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary with respect to each Black & Decker Benefit Plan have been paid or accrued in accordance with the terms of such Black & Decker Benefit Plan, GAAP and Section 412 of the Code (or any comparable provision under applicable non-U.S. Laws).  Except as fully accrued or reserved against on Black & Deckers financial statements in accordance with GAAP, there are no material unfunded liabilities, solvency deficiencies or wind-up liabilities, where applicable, with respect to any Black & Decker Benefit Plan.
 
(h)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, there are no pending or, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, threatened claims, suits or proceedings by or on behalf of any participant in any of the Black & Decker Benefit Plans, or otherwise involving any such Black & Decker Benefit Plan or the assets of any Black & Decker Benefit Plan, other than routine claims for benefits payable in the ordinary course.
 
(i)  None of the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the obtaining of the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval or the consummation of the Merger or any other transaction contemplated by this Agreement (alone or in conjunction with any other event, including any termination of employment on or following the Effective Time) will (i) entitle any current or former director, officer, employee, independent contractor or consultant of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries to any compensation or benefit, (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting, or trigger any payment or funding, of any compensation or benefits or trigger any other material obligation under any Black & Decker Benefit Plan or (iii) result in any breach or violation of, default under or limit Black & Deckers right to amend, modify or terminate any Black & Decker Benefit Plan.
 
(j)  Other than the Specified Parachute Payments, no amount or other entitlement that could be received as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby (alone or in conjunction with any other event) by any individual listed in Section 4.10(j) of the Black & Decker Disclosure Letter will constitute an excess parachute payment (as defined in Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code).  Section 4.10(j) of the Black & Decker Disclosure Letter sets forth, with respect to each such individual, (i) such Persons name, title and base amount (as defined in Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code) and (ii) a calculation of the aggregate present value of the parachute payments (as defined in Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) such Person could receive (collectively, the ).  No director, officer, employee or independent contractor of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary is entitled to receive any gross-up or additional payment in respect of any Taxes (including, without limitation, the Taxes required under Section 409A or Section 4999 of the Code) being imposed on such Person.
Specified Parachute Payments
 
                          There is no suit, action or other proceeding pending or, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, threatened against or affecting Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, nor is there any Judgment outstanding against or, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, any investigation by any Governmental Entity involving Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any of their respective properties or assets that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 4.11.  
.
Litigation
 
35
Table of Contents
 
                          Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable Laws and Black & Decker Permits, including all applicable rules, regulations, directives or policies of any Governmental Entity.  To the Knowledge of Black & Decker, except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, no material action, demand or investigation by or before any Governmental Entity is pending or threatened alleging that Black & Decker or a Black & Decker Subsidiary is not in compliance with any applicable Law or Black & Decker Permit or which challenges or questions the validity of any rights of the holder of any Black & Decker Permit.  This section does not relate to Tax matters, employee benefits matters, environmental matters or Intellectual Property Rights matters.
SECTION 4.12.  
.
Compliance with Applicable Laws
 
                          (a)  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect:
SECTION 4.13.  
.
Environmental Matters
 
(i)  Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries are in compliance with all Environmental Laws, and neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary has received any written communication from a Governmental Entity that alleges that Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary is in violation of, or has liability under, any Environmental Law or any Permit issued pursuant to Environmental Law;
 
(ii)  Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries have obtained and are in compliance with all Permits issued pursuant to Environmental Law necessary for their respective operations as currently conducted, all such Permits are valid and in good standing and neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary has been advised in writing by any Governmental Entity of any actual or potential change in the status or terms and conditions of any such Permits;
 
(iii)  there are no Environmental Claims pending or, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, threatened against Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries;
 
(iv)  there have been no Releases of any Hazardous Material that could reasonably be expected to form the basis of any Environmental Claim against Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries or against any Person whose liabilities for such Environmental Claims Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries has, or may have, retained or assumed, either contractually or by operation of Law; and
 
36
Table of Contents
 
(v)  neither Black & Decker nor any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries has retained or assumed, either contractually or by operation of Law, any Known liabilities or obligations that could reasonably be expected to form the basis of any Environmental Claim against Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries.
 
                         (a)  As of the date of this Agreement, neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary is a party to any Contract required to be filed by Black & Decker pursuant to Item 601(b)(2), (b)(4), (b)(9) or (b)(10) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act (a ) that has not been so filed.
 SECTION 4.14.  
.
Contracts
Filed Black & Decker Contract
 
(b)  Section 4.14 of the Black & Decker Disclosure Letter  sets forth, as of the date of this Agreement, a true and complete list, and Black & Decker has made available to Stanley true and complete copies, of (i) each agreement, understanding or undertaking to which Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is a party that restricts in any material respect the ability of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries to compete in any business or with any Person in any geographical area, (ii) each loan and credit agreement, note, debenture, bond, indenture or other similar agreement pursuant to which any Indebtedness of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is outstanding or may be incurred, other than any such agreement between or among Black & Decker and the wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiaries and (iii) each partnership, joint venture or similar agreement or understanding to which Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is a party relating to the formation, creation, operation, management or control of any partnership or joint venture material to Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.  Each agreement, understanding or undertaking of the type described in this Section 4.14(b) and each Filed Black & Decker Contract is referred to herein as a .
Black & Decker Material Contract
 
(c)  Except for matters which, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, (i) each Black & Decker Material Contract (including, for purposes of this Section 4.14(c), any Contract entered into after the date of this Agreement that would have been a Black & Decker Material Contract if such Contract existed on the date of this Agreement) is a valid, binding and legally enforceable obligation of Black & Decker or one of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, as the case may be, and, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, of the other parties thereto, except, in each case, as enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar Laws affecting creditors rights generally and by general principles of equity, (ii) each such Black & Decker Material Contract is in full force and effect and (iii) none of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) in breach or default under any such Black & Decker Material Contract and, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, no other party to any such Black & Decker Material Contract is (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) in breach or default thereunder.
 
                          (a)  Black & Decker and each Black & Decker Subsidiary has good and valid title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all their respective properties and assets, except in respects that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.  All such properties and assets, other than properties and assets in which Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries has leasehold interests, are free and clear of all Liens, except for Liens that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.  This Section 4.15 does not relate to Intellectual Property Rights matters, which are the subject of Section 4.16.
SECTION 4.15.  
.
Properties
 
37
Table of Contents
 
(b)  Black & Decker and each of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries has complied with the terms of all leases to which it is a party, and all leases to which Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary is a party and under which it is in possession are in full force and effect, except for such noncompliance or failure to be in full force and effect that, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.  Black & Decker and each Black & Decker Subsidiary is in possession of the properties or assets purported to be leased under all its leases, except for such failures to have such possession as, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.
 
                          Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries own, or are validly licensed or otherwise have the right to use, all Intellectual Property Rights as used in their business as presently conducted, except where the failure to have the right to use such Intellectual Property Rights, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.  No actions, suits or other proceedings are pending or, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, threatened that Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries is infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the rights of any Person with regard to any Intellectual Property Right, except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.  To the Knowledge of Black & Decker, no Person is infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the rights of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries with respect to any Intellectual Property Right owned by Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, except for such infringement, misappropriation or violation that, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 4.16.  
.
Intellectual Property
 
                          Section 4.17 of the Black & Decker Disclosure Letter sets forth a true and complete list of all material collective bargaining or other labor union Contracts applicable to any employees of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries.  Neither Black & Decker nor any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries has breached or otherwise failed to comply with any provision of any collective bargaining agreement or other labor union Contract applicable to any employees of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, except for any breaches, failures to comply or disputes that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.  Except for matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, (a) there is not any, and during the past three years there has not been any, labor strike, dispute, work stoppage or lockout pending, or, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, threatened, against or affecting Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary; (b) to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, no union organizational campaign is in progress with respect to the employees of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary and no question concerning representation of such employees exists; (c) neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary is engaged in any unfair labor practice; (d) there are not any unfair labor practice charges or complaints against Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary pending, or, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, threatened, before the National Labor Relations Board; (e) there are not any pending, or, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, threatened, union grievances against Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary that reasonably could be expected to result in an adverse determination; (f) Black & Decker and each Black & Decker Subsidiary is in compliance with all applicable Laws with respect to labor relations, employment and employment practices, occupational safety and health standards, terms and conditions of employment, payment of wages, classification of employees, immigration, visa, work status, pay equity and workers compensation; and (g) neither Black & Decker nor any Black & Decker Subsidiary has received written or oral communication during the past three years of the intent of any Governmental Entity responsible for the enforcement of labor or employment laws to conduct an investigation of or affecting Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary and, to the Knowledge of Black & Decker, no such investigation is in progress.
SECTION 4.17.  
.
Labor Matters
 
38
Table of Contents
 
                          No broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other Person, other than J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (the ), the fees and expenses of which will be paid by Black & Decker, is entitled to any brokers, finders, financial advisors or other similar fee or commission in connection with the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Black & Decker.  Black & Decker has furnished to Stanley true and complete copies of all agreements between Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Financial Advisor relating to the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
SECTION 4.18.  
.
Brokers Fees and Expenses
Black & Decker Financial Advisor
 
                          Black & Decker has received the opinion of the Black & Decker Financial Advisor dated the date of this Agreement, to the effect that, as of such date, the Exchange Ratio is fair, from a financial point of view, to the holders of Black & Decker Common Stock.
SECTION 4.19.  
.
Opinion of Financial Advisor
 
                          Except for the representations and warranties contained in this Article IV, Stanley acknowledges that none of Black & Decker, the Black & Decker Subsidiaries or any other Person on behalf of Black & Decker makes any other express or implied representation or warranty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
SECTION 4.20.  
.
No Other Representations or Warranties
 
 
 
 
                          (a)    Except for matters set forth in the Stanley Disclosure Letter or otherwise expressly permitted or expressly contemplated by this Agreement or with the prior written consent of Black & Decker (which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, Stanley shall, and shall cause each Stanley Subsidiary to, conduct its business in the ordinary course in all material respects and use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact its business organization and advantageous business relationships.  In addition, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except for matters set forth in the Stanley Disclosure Letter or otherwise expressly permitted or expressly contemplated by this Agreement or with the prior written consent of Black & Decker (which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, Stanley shall not, and shall not permit any Stanley Subsidiary to, do any of the following:
SECTION 5.01.  
.
Conduct of Business
Conduct of Business by Stanley.
 
39
Table of Contents
 
(i)  (A) declare, set aside or pay any dividends on, or make any other distributions (whether in cash, stock or property or any combination thereof) in respect of, any of its capital stock, other equity interests or voting securities, other than (1) regular quarterly cash dividends payable by Stanley in respect of shares of Stanley Common Stock not exceeding $0.33 per share of Stanley Common Stock with (subject to Section 5.01(f)) usual declaration, record and payment dates and in accordance with Stanleys current dividend policy and (2) dividends and distributions by a direct or indirect wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary to its stockholders or other equity holders, (B) other than with respect to a wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary, split, combine, subdivide or reclassify any of its capital stock, other equity interests or voting securities, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for capital stock or other equity interests or voting securities or issue or authorize the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for its capital stock, other equity interests or voting securities, other than as permitted by Section 5.01(a)(ii), or (C) repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, or offer to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, any capital stock or voting securities of, or equity interests in, Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary or any securities of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for capital stock or voting securities of, or equity interests in, Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, or any warrants, calls, options or other rights to acquire any such capital stock, securities or interests, except pursuant to the Stanley Stock Options, the Stanley ESPP, Stanley Restricted Stock Units and Stanley Performance Share Units, in each case, pursuant to their terms or thereafter granted as permitted by the provisions of Section 5.01(a)(ii) or any such transaction by Stanley or a wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary in respect of such capital stock, securities or interests in a wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary;
 
(ii)  issue, deliver, sell, grant, pledge or otherwise encumber or subject to any Lien (A) any shares of capital stock of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary (other than the issuance of Stanley Common Stock (1) upon the exercise of Stanley Stock Options or vesting of Stanley Restricted Stock Units or Stanley Performance Share Units, in each case, outstanding at the close of business on the date of this Agreement and in accordance with their terms in effect at such time or thereafter granted as permitted by the provisions of this Section 5.01(a)(ii) and (2) pursuant to the Stanley ESPP and the Stanley Directors Deferred Compensation Plan in accordance with their respective terms, or the issuance of shares of capital stock of a wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary to Stanley or to another wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary), (B) any other equity interests or voting securities of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, other than in the case of a Stanley Subsidiary, an issuance, delivery or sale to Stanley or any wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary, (C) any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, other than in the case of a Stanley Subsidiary, an issuance, delivery or sale to Stanley or any wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary, (D) any warrants, calls, options or other rights to acquire any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, other than in the case of a Stanley Subsidiary, an issuance, delivery or sale to Stanley or any wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary, (E) any rights issued by Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary that are linked in any way to the price of any class of Stanley Capital Stock or any shares of capital stock of any Stanley Subsidiary, the value of Stanley, any Stanley Subsidiary or any part of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary or any dividends or other distributions declared or paid on any shares of capital stock of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, other than in the case of a Stanley Subsidiary, an issuance, delivery or sale to Stanley or any wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary, or (F) any Stanley Voting Debt, other than, in the case of each of clauses (A) through (F), for (1) grants of purchase rights under the Stanley ESPP in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (2) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, deferrals of compensation by directors under the Stanley Directors Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement and (3) grants of Stanley Stock Options and issuances of Stanley Restricted Stock Units and Stanley Performance Share Units under the Stanley Benefit Plans as in effect on the date of this Agreement, in each case under clause (3) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice (I) to any officer or employee of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary in the context of promotions based on job performance or workplace requirements, (II) in connection with new hires, (III) to respond to offers of employment made to existing employees by third parties, and (IV) in connection with normal annual grants to any director, officer or employee of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary in accordance with Section 5.01(a)(ii) of the Stanley Disclosure Letter;
 
40
Table of Contents
 
(iii)  (A) amend the Stanley Articles (other than to amend the Stanley Articles to give effect to the Articles Amendment); (B) amend the Stanley Bylaws; or (C) amend the charter or organizational documents of any Stanley Subsidiary in a manner which would be reasonably likely to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect or to prevent or materially impede, interfere with, hinder or delay the consummation by Stanley of the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except, in the case of each of the foregoing clauses (B) and (C), as may be required by Law or the rules and regulations of the SEC or the NYSE;
 
(iv)  except as required to comply with applicable Law or to comply with any Stanley Benefit Plan (including any award agreement thereunder) in effect as of the date of this Agreement, (A) establish, adopt, enter into, terminate or amend, or take any action to accelerate the vesting or payment of, any compensation or benefits under, any collective bargaining agreement or Stanley Benefit Plan (or any award thereunder), (B) increase in any material respect the compensation or benefits of, or pay any discretionary bonus of any kind or amount whatsoever to, any current or former director, officer, employee or independent contractor of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, except for increases in regular cash compensation in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice for employees of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary who are not officers, (C) pay any benefit or amount not required under any Stanley Benefit Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement, (D) grant or pay any change in control, retention, severance or termination compensation or benefits, (E) take any action to fund or in any other way secure the payment of compensation or benefits under any Stanley Benefit Plan, (F) change any actuarial or other assumption used to calculate funding obligations with respect to any Stanley Pension Plan, except to the extent required by GAAP, or (G) change the manner in which contributions to any Stanley Pension Plan are made or the basis on which such contributions are determined;
 
 
41
Table of Contents
 
(v)  make any change in financial accounting methods, principles or practices, except insofar as may have been required by a change in GAAP (after the date of this Agreement);
 
(vi)  (A) make any material election with respect to Taxes, (B) make any changes to any such election or existing election, or (C) settle or compromise any material Tax liability or refund, other than, in each case, in the ordinary course of business.
 
(vii)  file or amend any Tax Return other than in the ordinary course of business and on a basis consistent with past practices and applicable Law, or fail to pay any Taxes due and payable;
 
(viii)  directly or indirectly acquire or agree to acquire in any transaction any equity interest in or business of any firm, corporation, partnership, company, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association or other entity or division thereof or any material properties or assets if the aggregate amount of the consideration paid or transferred by Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries in connection with all such transactions would exceed $100,000,000;
 
(ix)  sell, lease (as lessor), license (as licensor), mortgage, sell and leaseback or otherwise encumber or subject to any Lien, or otherwise dispose of any properties or assets or any interests therein that, individually or in the aggregate, have a fair market value in excess of $25,000,000, except in relation to mortgages, liens and pledges to secure Indebtedness for borrowed money permitted to be incurred under Section 5.01(a)(x);
 
            (x)  incur any Indebtedness, except for (A) Indebtedness used to finance an acquisition permitted by Section 5.01(a)(viii), (B) Indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business, (C) Indebtedness in replacement of existing Indebtedness, (D) Indebtedness of a Stanley Subsidiary payable to Stanley or a wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary, or (E) guarantees by Stanley of Indebtedness of any wholly owned Stanley Subsidiary;
 
(xi)  make, or agree or commit to make, any capital expenditures except (A) in 2009, in accordance with the capital plans for 2009 set forth in Section 5.01(a)(xi) of the Stanley Disclosure Letter, and (B) in 2010, in an amount up to $150,000,000 (pro rated on a quarterly basis);
 
42
Table of Contents
 
(xii)  enter into or amend any Contract, or take any other action, if such Contract, amendment of a Contract or action would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially impede, interfere with, hinder or delay the consummation of the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement or adversely affect in a material respect the expected benefits (taken as a whole) of the Merger;
 
(xiii)  enter into or amend any material Contract to the extent consummation of the Merger or compliance by Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary with the provisions of this Agreement would reasonably be expected to conflict with, or result in a violation of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of, give rise to any obligation to make an offer to purchase or redeem any Indebtedness or capital stock or any loss of a material benefit under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the material properties or assets of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary under, or require Stanley, Black & Decker or any of their respective Subsidiaries to license or transfer any of its material properties or assets under, or give rise to any increased, additional, accelerated, or guaranteed right or entitlements of any third party under, or result in any material alteration of, any provision of such Contract or amendment;
 
(xiv)  settle any material claim or material litigation, in each case made or pending against Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, other than (A) the settlement of disputes, claims or litigation in respect of: health care insurance, products and services; group disability, life and accident insurance; workers compensation case management and related services; products liability claims; and commutations of reinsurance agreements and resolutions of disputes concerning reinsurance agreements; in each case in the ordinary course of business, (B) the settlement of other claims or litigation in an amount not to exceed, in the aggregate for all such settlements under this clause (B), $25,000,000 and (C) the settlement of claims or litigation disclosed, reflected or reserved against in the most recent financial statements (or the notes thereto) of Stanley included in the Filed Stanley SEC Documents for an amount not materially in excess of the amount so disclosed, reflected or reserved;
 
(xv)  cancel any material Indebtedness owed to Stanley or a Stanley Subsidiary or waive any claims or rights of substantial value, in each case other than in the ordinary course of business;
 
(xvi)  enter into, modify, amend or terminate any collective bargaining or other labor union Contract applicable to the employees of Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries, other than (A) the entry into new collective bargaining or other labor union Contracts in the ordinary course of business required to be entered into by any non-US Law, (B) modifications, amendments, renewals or terminations of such Contracts in the ordinary course of business or (C) any modification, amendment, renewal or termination of any collective bargaining agreement to the extent required by applicable Law; or
 
43
Table of Contents
 
(xvii)  authorize any of, or commit, resolve or agree to take any of, or participate in any negotiations or discussions with any other Person regarding any of, the foregoing actions.
 
                      (b)    Except for matters set forth in the Black & Decker Disclosure Letter or otherwise expressly permitted or expressly contemplated by this Agreement or with the prior written consent of Stanley (which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, Black & Decker shall, and shall cause each Black & Decker Subsidiary to, conduct its business in the ordinary course in all material respects and use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact its business organization and advantageous business relationships.  In addition, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except for matters set forth in the Black & Decker Disclosure Letter or otherwise expressly permitted or expressly contemplated by this Agreement or with the prior written consent of Stanley (which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, Black & Decker shall not, and shall not permit any Black & Decker Subsidiary to, do any of the following:
Conduct of Business by Black & Decker.
 
(i)  (A) declare, set aside or pay any dividends on, or make any other distributions (whether in cash, stock or property or any combination thereof) in respect of, any of its capital stock, other equity interests or voting securities, other than (1) regular quarterly cash dividends payable by Black & Decker in respect of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock not exceeding $0.12 per share of Black & Decker Common Stock with (subject to Section 5.01(f)) usual declaration, record and payment dates and in accordance with Black & Deckers current dividend policy and (2) dividends and distributions by a direct or indirect wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary to its stockholders or other equity holders, (B) other than with respect to any wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary, split, combine, subdivide or reclassify any of its capital stock, other equity interests or voting securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for capital stock or other equity interests or voting securities or issue or authorize the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for its capital stock, other equity interests or voting securities, other than as permitted by Section 5.01(b)(ii), or (C) repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, or offer to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, any capital stock or voting securities of, or equity interests in, Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any securities of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for capital stock or voting securities of, or equity interests in, Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, or any warrants, calls, options or other rights to acquire any such capital stock, securities or interests, except pursuant to the Black & Decker Stock Options, Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units, Black & Decker Performance Share Units and Black & Decker Restricted Shares, in each case, pursuant to their terms or thereafter granted as permitted by the provisions of Section 5.01(b)(ii) or any such transaction by Black & Decker or a wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary in respect of such capital stock, securities or interests in a wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary;
 
44
Table of Contents
 
(ii)  issue, deliver, sell, grant, pledge or otherwise encumber or subject to any Lien (A) any shares of capital stock of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, other than the issuance of Black & Decker Common Stock (1) upon the exercise of Black & Decker Stock Options and upon the vesting of Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units and Black & Decker Performance Share Units, in each case, outstanding at the close of business on the date of this Agreement and in accordance with their terms in effect at such time or thereafter granted as permitted by the provisions of this Section 5.01(b)(ii) and (2) pursuant to the Black & Decker Directors Deferred Compensation Plan in accordance with its terms, or the issuance of shares of capital stock of a wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary to Black & Decker or another wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary, (B) any other equity interests or voting securities of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, other than in the case of a Black & Decker Subsidiary, an issuance, delivery or sale to Black & Decker or any wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary, (C) any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, other than in the case of a Black & Decker Subsidiary, an issuance, delivery or sale to Black & Decker or any wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary, (D) any warrants, calls, options or other rights to acquire any capital stock or voting securities of, or other equity interests in, Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, other than in the case of a Black & Decker Subsidiary, an issuance, delivery or sale to Black & Decker or any wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary, (E) any rights issued by Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary that are linked in any way to the price of any class of Black & Decker Capital Stock or any shares of capital stock of any Black & Decker Subsidiary, the value of Black & Decker, any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any part of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary or any dividends or other distributions declared or paid on any shares of capital stock of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, other than in the case of a Black & Decker Subsidiary, an issuance, delivery or sale to Black & Decker or any wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary, or (F) any Black & Decker Voting Debt, other than, in the case of each of clauses (A) through (F), for (1) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, deferrals of compensation by directors under the Black & Decker Directors Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement and (2) grants of Black & Decker Stock Options with an exercise price per share of Black & Decker Common Stock no less than the fair value of a share of Black & Decker Common Stock as of the relevant date of grant and issuances of Black & Decker LSARs, Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units, Black & Decker Performance Share Units and Black & Decker Restricted Shares under the Black & Decker Benefit Plans as in effect on the date of this Agreement, in each case under clause (2) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice (I) to any officer or employee of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary in the context of promotions based on job performance or workplace requirements, (II) in connection with new hires, (III) to respond to offers of employment made to existing employees by third parties, and (IV) in connection with normal annual grants to any director, officer or employee of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary in accordance with Section 5.01(b)(ii) of the Black & Decker Disclosure Letter;
 
45
Table of Contents
 
(iii)  (A) amend the Black & Decker Articles, (B) amend the Black & Decker Bylaws or (C) amend the charter or organizational documents of any Black & Decker Subsidiary in a manner which would be reasonably likely to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect or to prevent or materially impede, interfere with, hinder or delay the consummation by Black & Decker of the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except, in the case of each of the foregoing clauses (B) and (C), as may be required by Law or the rules and regulations of the SEC or the NYSE;
 
(iv)  except as required to comply with applicable Law or to comply with any Black & Decker Benefit Plan (including any award agreement thereunder) in effect as of the date of this Agreement, (A) establish, adopt, enter into, terminate or amend, or take any action to accelerate the vesting or payment of, any compensation or benefits under, any collective bargaining agreement or Black & Decker Benefit Plan (or any award thereunder), (B) increase in any material respect the compensation or benefits of, or pay any discretionary bonus of any kind or amount whatsoever to, any current or former director, officer, employee or independent contractor of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, except for increases in regular cash compensation in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice for employees of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary who are not officers, (C) pay any benefit or amount not required under any Black & Decker Benefit Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement, (D) grant or pay any change in control, retention, severance or termination compensation or benefits, (E) take any action to fund or in any other way secure the payment of compensation or benefits under any Black & Decker Benefit Plan, (F) change any actuarial or other assumption used to calculate funding obligations with respect to any Black & Decker Pension Plan, except to the extent required by GAAP, or (G) change the manner in which contributions to any Black & Decker Pension Plan are made or the basis on which such contributions are determined;
 
(v)  make any change in financial accounting methods, principles or practices, except insofar as may have been required by a change in GAAP (after the date of this Agreement);
 
(vi)  (A) make any material election with respect to Taxes, (B) make any changes to any such election or existing election, or (C) settle or compromise any material Tax liability or refund, other than, in each case, in the ordinary course of business.
 
(vii)  file or amend any Tax Return other than in the ordinary course of business and on a basis consistent with past practices and applicable Law, or fail to pay any Taxes due and payable;
 
(viii)  directly or indirectly acquire or agree to acquire in any transaction any equity interest in or business of any firm, corporation, partnership, company, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association or other entity or division thereof or any material properties or assets if the aggregate amount of the consideration paid or transferred by Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries in connection with all such transactions would exceed $100,000,000;
 
46
Table of Contents
 
(ix)  sell, lease (as lessor), license (as licensor), mortgage, sell and leaseback or otherwise encumber or subject to any Lien, or otherwise dispose of any properties or assets or any interests therein that, individually or in the aggregate, have a fair market value in excess of $25,000,000, except in relation to mortgages, liens and pledges to secure Indebtedness for borrowed money permitted to be incurred under Section 5.01(b)(x);
 
(x)  incur any Indebtedness, except for (A) Indebtedness used to finance an acquisition permitted by Section 5.01(b)(viii), (B) Indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business, (C) Indebtedness in replacement of existing Indebtedness, (D) Indebtedness of a Black & Decker Subsidiary payable to Black & Decker or a wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary, or (E) guarantees by Black & Decker of Indebtedness of any wholly owned Black & Decker Subsidiary;
 
(xi)  make, or agree or commit to make, any capital expenditures except (A) in 2009, in accordance with the capital plans for 2009 set forth in Section 5.01(b)(xi) of the Black & Decker Disclosure Letter, and (B) in 2010, in an amount up to $150,000,000 (pro rated on a quarterly basis);
 
(xii)  enter into or amend any Contract or take any other action if such Contract, amendment of a Contract or action would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially impede, interfere with, hinder or delay the consummation of the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement or adversely affect in a material respect the expected benefits (taken as a whole) of the Merger;
 
(xiii)  enter into or amend any material Contract to the extent consummation of the Merger or compliance by Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary with the provisions of this Agreement would reasonably be expected to conflict with, or result in a violation of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of, give rise to any obligation to make an offer to purchase or redeem any Indebtedness or capital stock or any loss of a material benefit under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the material properties or assets of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary under, or require Stanley, Black & Decker or any of their respective Subsidiaries to license or transfer any of its material properties or assets under, or give rise to any increased, additional, accelerated, or guaranteed right or entitlements of any third party under, or result in any material alteration of, any provision of such Contract or amendment;
 
(xiv)  settle any material claim or material litigation, in each case made or pending against Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, other than (A) the settlement of disputes, claims or litigation in respect of:  health care insurance, products and services; group disability, life and accident insurance; workers compensation case management and related services; products liability claims; and commutations of reinsurance agreements and resolutions of disputes concerning reinsurance agreements; in each case in the ordinary course of business, (B) the settlement of other claims or litigation in an amount not to exceed, in the aggregate for all such settlements under this clause (B), $25,000,000 and (C) the settlement of claims or litigation disclosed, reflected or reserved against in the most recent financial statements (or the notes thereto) of Black & Decker included in the Filed Black & Decker SEC Documents for an amount not materially in excess of the amount so disclosed, reflected or reserved;
 
47
Table of Contents
 
(xv)  cancel any material Indebtedness owed to Black & Decker or a Black & Decker Subsidiary or waive any claims or rights of substantial value, in each case other than in the ordinary course of business;
 
(xvi)  enter into, modify, amend or terminate any collective bargaining or other labor union Contract applicable to the employees of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, other than (A) the entry into new collective bargaining or other labor union Contracts in the ordinary course of business required to be entered into by any non-US Law, (B) modifications, amendments, renewals or terminations of such Contracts in the ordinary course of business or (C) any modification, amendment, renewal or termination of any collective bargaining agreement to the extent required by applicable Law; or
 
(xvii)  authorize any of, or commit, resolve or agree to take any of, or participate in any negotiations or discussions with any other Person regarding any of, the foregoing actions.
 
                      (c)    Black & Decker acknowledges and agrees that (i) nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to give Black & Decker, directly or indirectly, the right to control or direct the operations of Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary prior to the Effective Time and (ii) prior to the Effective Time, Stanley shall exercise, consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, complete control and supervision over its and the Stanley Subsidiaries respective operations.
No Control of Stanleys Business.
 
  (d)    Stanley acknowledges and agrees that (i) nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to give Stanley, directly or indirectly, the right to control or direct the operations of Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary prior to the Effective Time and (ii) prior to the Effective Time, Black & Decker shall exercise, consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, complete control and supervision over its and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries respective operations.
No Control of Black & Deckers Business.
 
  (e)    Stanley and Black & Decker shall promptly advise the other orally and in writing of any change or event that, individually or in the aggregate with all past changes and events, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to such Person.
Advice of Changes.
 
  (f)    Stanley and Black & Decker shall each set the declaration, record and payment dates of their regular quarterly dividends such that holders of Black & Decker Common Stock do not, with respect to any calendar quarter, become entitled to receive both (i) a dividend on their shares of Black & Decker Common Stock declared by Black & Decker with respect to such quarter and (ii) a dividend on their shares of Stanley Common Stock received as Merger Consideration declared by Stanley with respect to such quarter.
Coordination of Quarterly Dividends.
 
48
Table of Contents
 
                      (a)  Stanley shall not, nor shall it authorize or permit any of its Affiliates or any of its or their respective directors, officers or employees or any of its or their respective investment bankers, accountants, attorneys or other advisors, agents or representatives (collectively, ) to, (i) directly or indirectly solicit, initiate or knowingly encourage, induce or facilitate any Stanley Takeover Proposal or any inquiry or proposal that may reasonably be expected to lead to a Stanley Takeover Proposal or (ii) directly or indirectly participate in any discussions or negotiations with any Person regarding, or furnish to any Person any information with respect to, any Stanley Takeover Proposal or any inquiry or proposal that may reasonably be expected to lead to a Stanley Takeover Proposal.  Stanley shall, and shall cause its Affiliates and its and their respective Representatives to, immediately cease and cause to be terminated all existing discussions or negotiations with any Person conducted heretofore with respect to any Stanley Takeover Proposal, or any inquiry or proposal that may reasonably be expected to lead to a Stanley Takeover Proposal, request the prompt return or destruction of all confidential information previously furnished in connection therewith and immediately terminate all physical and electronic dataroom access previously granted to any such Person or its Representatives.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to obtaining the Stanley Shareholder Approval and the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval, in response to a written Stanley Takeover Proposal that the Stanley Board determines in good faith (after consultation with outside counsel and a financial advisor of nationally recognized reputation) constitutes or is reasonably likely to lead to a Superior Stanley Proposal, and which Stanley Takeover Proposal was made after the date of this Agreement and did not otherwise result from a breach of the non-solicitation provisions of this Section 5.02(a), Stanley may (and may authorize and permit its Affiliates and its and their Representatives to), subject to compliance with Section 5.02(c), (A) furnish information with respect to Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries to the Person making such Stanley Takeover Proposal (and its Representatives) ( that all such information has previously been provided to Black & Decker or is provided to Black & Decker prior to or substantially concurrent with the time it is provided to such Person) pursuant to a customary confidentiality agreement not less restrictive of such Person than the Confidentiality Agreement (other than with respect to standstill provisions), and (B) participate in discussions regarding the terms of such Stanley Takeover Proposal and the negotiation of such terms with, and only with, the Person making such Stanley Takeover Proposal (and such Persons Representatives).  Without limiting the foregoing, it is agreed that any violation of the restrictions set forth in this Section 5.02(a) by any Representative of Stanley or any of its Affiliates shall constitute a breach of this Section 5.02(a) by Stanley.
SECTION 5.02.  
.
No Solicitation by Stanley; Stanley Board Recommendation
Representatives
provided
 
(b)  Except as set forth below, neither the Stanley Board nor any committee thereof shall (i) (A) withdraw (or modify in any manner adverse to Black & Decker), or propose publicly to withdraw (or modify in any manner adverse to Black & Decker), the approval, recommendation or declaration of advisability by the Stanley Board or any such committee thereof with respect to this Agreement, including the Articles Amendment and the Share Issuance, or (B) adopt, recommend or declare advisable, or propose publicly to adopt, recommend or declare advisable, any Stanley Takeover Proposal (any action in this clause (i) being referred to as a ) or (ii) adopt, recommend or declare advisable, or propose publicly to adopt, recommend or declare advisable, or allow Stanley or any of its Affiliates to execute or enter into, any letter of intent, memorandum of understanding, agreement in principle, merger agreement, acquisition agreement, option agreement, joint venture agreement, alliance agreement, partnership agreement or other similar agreement or arrangement (an ) constituting or related to, or that is intended to or would reasonably be expected to lead to, any Stanley Takeover Proposal, or requiring, or reasonably expected to cause, Stanley or Merger Sub to abandon, terminate, delay or fail to consummate, or that would otherwise impede, interfere with or be inconsistent with, the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or requiring, or reasonably expected to cause, Stanley or Merger Sub to fail to comply with this Agreement (other than a confidentiality agreement referred to in Section 5.02(a)).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to obtaining the Stanley Shareholder Approval and the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval, the Stanley Board may make a Stanley Adverse Recommendation Change if Stanley receives a Superior Stanley Proposal or the Stanley Board determines in good faith (after consultation with outside counsel and a financial advisor of nationally recognized reputation) that the failure to do so would be inconsistent with its duties under applicable Law; , , that Stanley shall not be entitled to exercise its right to make a Stanley Adverse Recommendation Change until after the fifth Business Day following Black & Deckers receipt of written notice (a ) from Stanley advising Black & Decker that the Stanley Board intends to take such action and specifying the reasons therefor, including in the case of a Superior Stanley Proposal the terms and conditions of such Superior Stanley Proposal that is the basis of the proposed action by the Stanley Board (it being understood and agreed that any amendment to any material term of such Superior Stanley Proposal shall require a new Stanley Notice of Recommendation Change and a new five Business Day period).  In determining whether to make a Stanley Adverse Recommendation Change, the Stanley Board shall take into account any changes to the terms of this Agreement proposed by Black & Decker in response to a Stanley Notice of Recommendation Change or otherwise.
Stanley Adverse Recommendation Change
Acquisition Agreement
provided
however
Stanley Notice of Recommendation Change
 
49
Table of Contents
 
(c)  In addition to the obligations of Stanley set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 5.02, Stanley shall promptly advise Black & Decker orally and in writing of any Stanley Takeover Proposal, the material terms and conditions of any such Stanley Takeover Proposal (including any changes thereto) and the identity of the Person making any such Stanley Takeover Proposal.  Stanley shall (i) keep Black & Decker informed in all material respects of the status and details (including any change to the terms thereof) of any Stanley Takeover Proposal, and (ii) provide to Black & Decker as soon as practicable after receipt or delivery thereof copies of all correspondence and other written material exchanged between Stanley or any of its Subsidiaries and any Person that describes any of the terms or conditions of any Stanley Takeover Proposal.
 
(d)  Nothing contained in this Section 5.02 shall prohibit Stanley from (i) issuing a stop-look-and-listen communication pursuant to Rule 14d-9(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act or taking and disclosing to its shareholders positions required by Rule 14d-9 or Rule 14e-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act, in each case after the commencement of a tender offer (within the meaning of Rule 14d-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act), (ii) issuing a statement in connection with a Stanley Takeover Proposal that does not involve the commencement of a tender offer (within the meaning of Rule 14d-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act), so long as the statement includes no more information than would be required for a stop-look-and-listen communication under Rule 14d-9(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act if such provision was applicable, or (iii) making any disclosure to the shareholders of Stanley if, in the good faith judgment of the Stanley Board (after consultation with outside counsel) failure to so disclose would be inconsistent with its duties under applicable Law; , , that in no event shall Stanley or the Stanley Board or any committee thereof take, or agree or resolve to take, any action prohibited by Section 5.02(b).
provided
however
 
50
Table of Contents
 
(e)  For purposes of this Agreement:
 
 means any proposal or offer (whether or not in writing), with respect to any (i) merger, consolidation, share exchange, other business combination or similar transaction involving Stanley, (ii) sale, lease, contribution or other disposition, directly or indirectly (including by way of merger, consolidation, share exchange, other business combination, partnership, joint venture, sale of capital stock of or other equity interests in a Stanley Subsidiary or otherwise) of any business or assets of Stanley or the Stanley Subsidiaries representing 10% or more of the consolidated revenues, net income or assets of Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (iii) issuance, sale or other disposition, directly or indirectly, to any Person (or the stockholders of any Person) or group of securities (or options, rights or warrants to purchase, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for, such securities) representing 10% or more of the voting power of Stanley, (iv) transaction in which any Person (or the stockholders of any Person) shall acquire, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership, or the right to acquire beneficial ownership, or formation of any group which beneficially owns or has the right to acquire beneficial ownership of, 10% or more of the Stanley Common Stock or (v) any combination of the foregoing (in each case, other than the Merger).
Stanley Takeover Proposal
 
 means any binding bona fide written offer made by a third party or group pursuant to which such third party (or, in a merger, consolidation or statutory share exchange involving such third party, the stockholders of such third party) or group would acquire, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the Stanley Common Stock or substantially all of the assets of Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, which the Stanley Board determines in good faith (after consultation with outside counsel and a financial advisor of nationally recognized reputation) is (i) on terms more favorable from a financial point of view to the holders of Stanley Common Stock than the Merger, taking into account all the terms and conditions of such proposal and this Agreement (including any changes proposed by Black & Decker to the terms of this Agreement), and (ii) reasonably likely to be completed, taking into account all financial, regulatory, legal and other aspects of such proposal.
Superior Stanley Proposal
 
                      (a)  Black & Decker shall not, nor shall it authorize or permit any of its Affiliates or any of its or their respective Representatives to, (i) directly or indirectly solicit, initiate or knowingly encourage, induce or facilitate any Black & Decker Takeover Proposal or any inquiry or proposal that may reasonably be expected to lead to a Black & Decker Takeover Proposal or (ii) directly or indirectly participate in any discussions or negotiations with any Person regarding, or furnish to any Person any information with respect to, any Black & Decker Takeover Proposal or any inquiry or proposal that may reasonably be expected to lead to a Black & Decker Takeover Proposal.  Black & Decker shall, and shall cause its Affiliates and its and their respective Representatives to, immediately cease and cause to be terminated all existing discussions or negotiations with any Person conducted heretofore with respect to any Black & Decker Takeover Proposal, or any inquiry or proposal that may reasonably be expected to lead to a Black & Decker Takeover Proposal, request the prompt return or destruction of all confidential information previously furnished in connection therewith and immediately terminate all physical and electronic dataroom access previously granted to any such Person or its Representatives.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to obtaining the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval, in response to a written Black & Decker Takeover Proposal that the Black & Decker Board determines in good faith (after consultation with outside counsel and a financial advisor of nationally recognized reputation) constitutes or is reasonably likely to lead to a Superior Black & Decker Proposal, and which Black & Decker Takeover Proposal was made after the date of this Agreement and did not otherwise result from a breach of the non-solicitation provisions of this Section 5.03(a), Black & Decker may (and may authorize and permit its Affiliates and its and their Representatives to), subject to compliance with Section 5.03(c), (A) furnish information with respect to Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries to the Person making such Black & Decker Takeover Proposal (and its Representatives) ( that all such information has previously been provided to Stanley or is provided to Stanley prior to or substantially concurrent with the time it is provided to such Person) pursuant to a customary confidentiality agreement not less restrictive of such Person than the Confidentiality Agreement (other than with respect to standstill provisions), and (B) participate in discussions regarding the terms of such Black & Decker Takeover Proposal and the negotiation of such terms with, and only with, the Person making such Black & Decker Takeover Proposal (and such Persons Representatives).  Without limiting the foregoing, it is agreed that any violation of the restrictions set forth in this Section 5.03(a) by any Representative of Black & Decker or any of its Affiliates shall constitute a breach of this Section 5.03(a) by Black & Decker.
SECTION 5.03.  
.
No Solicitation by Black & Decker; Black & Decker Board Recommendation
provided
 
51
Table of Contents
 
(b)  Except as set forth below, neither the Black & Decker Board nor any committee thereof shall (i) (A) withdraw (or modify in any manner adverse to Stanley), or propose publicly to withdraw (or modify in any manner adverse to Stanley), the approval, recommendation or declaration of advisability by the Black & Decker Board or any such committee thereof with respect to this Agreement or the Merger or (B) adopt, recommend or declare advisable, or propose publicly to adopt, recommend or declare advisable, any Black & Decker Takeover Proposal (any action in this clause (i) being referred to as a ) or (ii) adopt, recommend or declare advisable, or propose publicly to adopt, recommend or declare advisable, or allow Black & Decker or any of its Affiliates to execute or enter into, any Acquisition Agreement constituting or related to, or that is intended to or would reasonably be expected to lead to, any Black & Decker Takeover Proposal, or requiring, or reasonably expected to cause, Black & Decker to abandon, terminate, delay or fail to consummate, or that would otherwise impede, interfere with or be inconsistent with, the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or requiring, or reasonably expected to cause, Black & Decker to fail to comply with this Agreement (other than a confidentiality agreement referred to in Section 5.03(a)).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to obtaining the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval, the Black & Decker Board may make a Black & Decker Adverse Recommendation Change if Black & Decker receives a Superior Black & Decker Proposal or the Black & Decker Board determines in good faith (after consultation with outside counsel and a financial advisor of nationally recognized reputation) that the failure to do so would be inconsistent with its duties under applicable Law; , , that Black & Decker shall not be entitled to exercise its right to make a Black & Decker Adverse Recommendation Change until after the fifth Business Day following Stanleys receipt of written notice (a ) from Black & Decker advising Stanley that the Black & Decker Board intends to take such action and specifying the reasons therefor, including in the case of a Superior Black & Decker Proposal the terms and conditions of such Superior Black & Decker Proposal that is the basis of the proposed action by the Black & Decker Board (it being understood and agreed that any amendment to any material term of such Superior Black & Decker Proposal shall require a new Black & Decker Notice of Recommendation Change and a new five Business Day period).  In determining whether to make a Black & Decker Adverse Recommendation Change, the Black & Decker Board shall take into account any changes to the terms of this Agreement proposed by Stanley in response to a Black & Decker Notice of Recommendation Change or otherwise.
Black & Decker Adverse Recommendation Change
provided
however
Black & Decker Notice of Recommendation Change
 
52
Table of Contents
 
(c)  In addition to the obligations of Black & Decker set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 5.03, Black & Decker shall promptly advise Stanley orally and in writing of any Black & Decker Takeover Proposal, the material terms and conditions of any such Black & Decker Takeover Proposal (including any changes thereto) and the identity of the Person making any such Black & Decker Takeover Proposal.  Black & Decker shall (i) keep Stanley informed in all material respects of the status and details (including any change to the terms thereof) of any Black & Decker Takeover Proposal, and (ii) provide to Stanley as soon as practicable after receipt or delivery thereof copies of all correspondence and other written material exchanged between Black & Decker or any of its Subsidiaries and any Person that describes any of the terms or conditions of any Black & Decker Takeover Proposal.
 
(d)  Nothing contained in this Section 5.03 shall prohibit Black & Decker from (i) issuing a stop-look-and-listen communication pursuant to Rule 14d-9(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act or taking and disclosing to its stockholders positions required by Rule 14d-9 or Rule 14e-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act, in each case after the commencement of a tender offer (within the meaning of Rule 14d-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act), (ii) issuing a statement in connection with a Black & Decker Takeover Proposal that does not involve the commencement of a tender offer (within the meaning of Rule 14d-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act), so long as the statement includes no more information than would be required for a stop-look-and-listen communication under Rule 14d-9(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act if such provision was applicable, or (iii) making any disclosure to the stockholders of Black & Decker if, in the good faith judgment of the Black & Decker Board (after consultation with outside counsel) failure to so disclose would be inconsistent with its duties under applicable Law; , , that in no event shall Black & Decker or the Black & Decker Board or any committee thereof take, or agree or resolve to take, any action prohibited by Section 5.03(b).
provided
however
 
(e)  For purposes of this Agreement:
 
 means any proposal or offer (whether or not in writing), with respect to any (i) merger, consolidation, share exchange, other business combination or similar transaction involving Black & Decker, (ii) sale, lease, contribution or other disposition, directly or indirectly (including by way of merger, consolidation, share exchange, other business combination, partnership, joint venture, sale of capital stock of or other equity interests in a Black & Decker Subsidiary or otherwise) of any business or assets of Black & Decker or the Black & Decker Subsidiaries representing 10% or more of the consolidated revenues, net income or assets of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (iii) issuance, sale or other disposition, directly or indirectly, to any Person (or the stockholders of any Person) or group of securities (or options, rights or warrants to purchase, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for, such securities) representing 10% or more of the voting power of Black & Decker, (iv) transaction in which any Person (or the stockholders of any Person) shall acquire, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership, or the right to acquire beneficial ownership, or formation of any group which beneficially owns or has the right to acquire beneficial ownership of, 10% or more of the Black & Decker Common Stock or (v) any combination of the foregoing (in each case, other than the Merger).
Black & Decker Takeover Proposal
 
53
Table of Contents
 
 means any binding bona fide written offer made by a third party or group pursuant to which such third party (or, in a merger, consolidation or statutory share-exchange involving such third party, the stockholders of such third party) or group would acquire, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the Black & Decker Common Stock or substantially all of the assets of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, which the Black & Decker Board determines in good faith (after consultation with outside counsel and a financial advisor of nationally recognized reputation) is (i) on terms more favorable from a financial point of view to the holders of Black & Decker Common Stock than the Merger, taking into account all the terms and conditions of such proposal and this Agreement (including any changes proposed by Stanley to the terms of this Agreement), and (ii) reasonably likely to be completed, taking into account all financial, regulatory, legal and other aspects of such proposal.
Superior Black & Decker Proposal
 
 
 
 
                          (a)  As promptly as practicable following the date of this Agreement, Stanley and Black & Decker shall jointly prepare and cause to be filed with the SEC a joint proxy statement to be sent to the shareholders of Stanley and the stockholders of Black & Decker relating to the Stanley Shareholders Meeting and the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting (together with any amendments or supplements thereto, the ) and Stanley and Black & Decker shall jointly prepare and Stanley shall cause to be filed with the SEC the Form S-4, in which the Joint Proxy Statement will be included as a prospectus, and Stanley and Black & Decker shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to have the Form S-4 declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable after such filing.  Each of Black & Decker and Stanley shall furnish all information concerning such Person and its Affiliates to the other, and provide such other assistance, as may be reasonably requested in connection with the preparation, filing and distribution of the Form S-4 and Joint Proxy Statement, and the Form S-4 and Joint Proxy Statement shall include all information reasonably requested by such other party to be included therein.  Stanley shall also take any action (other than qualifying to do business in any jurisdiction in which it is not now so qualified) required to be taken under any applicable state securities laws in connection with the issuance of Stanley Common Stock in the Merger and under the Black & Decker Stock Plans, and each of Stanley and Black & Decker shall furnish all information concerning itself, its Affiliates and the holders of Stanley Capital Stock (and rights to acquire Stanley Capital Stock pursuant to Black & Decker Stock Plans or Stanley Stock Plans, as applicable) as may be reasonably requested in connection therewith.  Each of Black & Decker and Stanley shall promptly notify the other upon the receipt of any comments from the SEC or any request from the SEC for amendments or supplements to the Form S-4 or Joint Proxy Statement and shall provide the other with copies of all correspondence between it and its Representatives, on the one hand, and the SEC, on the other hand.  Each of Black & Decker and Stanley shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to respond as promptly as practicable to any comments from the SEC with respect to the Form S-4 or Joint Proxy Statement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to filing the Form S-4 (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or mailing the Joint Proxy Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or responding to any comments of the SEC with respect thereto, each of Black & Decker and Stanley (i) shall provide the other an opportunity to review and comment on such document or response (including the proposed final version of such document or response), (ii) shall include in such document or response all comments reasonably proposed by the other and (iii) shall not file or mail such document or respond to the SEC prior to receiving the approval of the other, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.  Each of Black & Decker and Stanley shall advise the other, promptly after receipt of notice thereof, of the time of effectiveness of the Form S-4, the issuance of any stop order relating thereto or the suspension of the qualification of the Merger Consideration for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, and each of Black & Decker and Stanley shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to have any such stop order or suspension lifted, reversed or otherwise terminated.  Each of Black & Decker and Stanley shall also take any other action (other than qualifying to do business in any jurisdiction in which it is not now so qualified) required to be taken under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, any applicable foreign or state securities or blue sky laws and the rules and regulations thereunder in connection with the Merger and the issuance of the Merger Consideration.
SECTION 6.01.  
.
Preparation of the Form S-4 and the Joint Proxy Statement; Stockholders Meetings
Joint Proxy Statement
 
54
Table of Contents
 
(b)  If prior to the Effective Time, any event occurs with respect to Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary, or any change occurs with respect to other information supplied by Stanley for inclusion in the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4, which is required to be described in an amendment of, or a supplement to, the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4, Stanley shall promptly notify Black & Decker of such event, and Stanley and Black & Decker shall cooperate in the prompt filing with the SEC of any necessary amendment or supplement to the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4 and, as required by Law, in disseminating the information contained in such amendment or supplement to Stanleys shareholders and Black & Deckers stockholders.  Nothing in this Section 6.01(b) shall limit the obligations of any party under Section 6.01(a).
 
(c)  If prior to the Effective Time, any event occurs with respect to Black & Decker or any Black & Decker Subsidiary, or any change occurs with respect to other information supplied by Black & Decker for inclusion in the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4, which is required to be described in an amendment of, or a supplement to, the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4, Black & Decker shall promptly notify Stanley of such event, and Black & Decker and Stanley shall cooperate in the prompt filing with the SEC of any necessary amendment or supplement to the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4 and, as required by Law, in disseminating the information contained in such amendment or supplement to Stanleys shareholders and Black & Deckers stockholders.  Nothing in this Section 6.01(c) shall limit the obligations of any party under Section 6.01(a).
 
55
Table of Contents
 
(d)  Stanley shall, as soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, duly call, give notice of, convene and hold the Stanley Shareholders Meeting for the sole purpose of seeking the Stanley Shareholder Approval and the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval.  Stanley shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to (i) cause the Joint Proxy Statement to be mailed to Stanleys shareholders and to hold the Stanley Shareholders Meeting as soon as practicable after the Form S-4 is declared effective under the Securities Act and (ii) solicit the Stanley Shareholder Approval and Stanley Articles Amendment Approval.  Stanley shall, through the Stanley Board, recommend to its shareholders that they give the Stanley Shareholder Approval and Stanley Articles Amendment Approval and shall include such recommendation in the Joint Proxy Statement, except to the extent that the Stanley Board shall have made a Stanley Adverse Recommendation Change as permitted by Section 5.02(b).  Except as expressly contemplated by the foregoing sentence, Stanley agrees that its obligations pursuant to this Section 6.01 shall not be affected by the commencement, public proposal, public disclosure or communication to Stanley of any Stanley Takeover Proposal or by the making of any Stanley Adverse Recommendation Change by the Stanley Board.
 
(e)  Black & Decker shall, as soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, duly call, give notice of, convene and hold the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting for the sole purpose of seeking the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval.  Black & Decker shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to (i) cause the Joint Proxy Statement to be mailed to Black & Deckers stockholders as promptly as practicable after the Form S-4 is declared effective under the Securities Act and to hold the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting as soon as practicable after the Form S-4 becomes effective and (ii) solicit the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval.  Black & Decker shall, through the Black & Decker Board, recommend to its stockholders that they give the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval and shall include such recommendation in the Joint Proxy Statement, except to the extent that the Black & Decker Board shall have made a Black & Decker Adverse Recommendation Change as permitted by Section 5.03(b).  Except as expressly contemplated by the foregoing sentence, Black & Decker agrees that its obligations pursuant to this Section 6.01 shall not be affected by the commencement, public proposal, public disclosure or communication to Black & Decker of any Black & Decker Takeover Proposal or by the making of any Black & Decker Adverse Recommendation Change by the Black & Decker Board.
 
(f)  Stanley and Black & Decker shall each use their commercially reasonable efforts to hold the Stanley Shareholders Meeting and Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting on the same day at the same time.
 
                          Subject to applicable Law, each of Stanley and Black & Decker shall, and shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries to, afford to the other party and to the Representatives of such other party reasonable access during the period prior to the Effective Time to all their respective properties, books, contracts, commitments, personnel and records and, during such period, each of Stanley and Black & Decker shall, and shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries to, furnish promptly to the other party (a) a copy of each report, schedule, registration statement and other document filed by it during such period pursuant to the requirements of Federal or state securities laws and (b) all other information concerning its business, properties and personnel as such other party may reasonably request; , , that either party may withhold any document or information that is subject to the terms of a confidentiality agreement with a third party ( that the withholding party shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the required consent of such third party to such access or disclosure) or subject to any attorney-client privilege ( that the withholding party shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to allow for such access or disclosure (or as much of it as possible) in a manner that does not result in a loss of attorney-client privilege).  If any material is withheld by such party pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, such party shall inform the other party as to the general nature of what is being withheld.  All information exchanged pursuant to this Section 6.02 shall be subject to the confidentiality agreement dated July 22, 2009, between Stanley and Black & Decker (the ).
SECTION 6.02.  
.
Access to Information; Confidentiality
provided
however
provided
provided
Confidentiality Agreement
 
 
56
Table of Contents
 
                         (a)  Subject to the terms hereof, including Section 6.03(c), Stanley and Black & Decker shall each use reasonable best efforts to (i) take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and do, or cause to be done, and to assist and cooperate with the other party in doing, all things necessary, proper or advisable to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated hereby as promptly as practicable, (ii) as promptly as practicable, obtain from any Governmental Entity or any other third party any consents, licenses, permits, waivers, approvals, authorizations or orders required to be obtained or made by Stanley or Black & Decker or any of their respective Subsidiaries in connection with the authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, (iii) defend any lawsuits or other legal proceedings, whether judicial or administrative, challenging this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, including seeking to have any stay or temporary restraining order entered by any court or other Governmental Entity vacated or reversed, (iv) as promptly as practicable, make all necessary filings, and thereafter make any other required submissions, with respect to this Agreement and the Merger required under (A) the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, and any other applicable Federal or state securities laws, and (B) any other applicable Law and (v) execute or deliver any additional instruments necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated by, and to fully carry out the purposes of, this Agreement.  Stanley and Black & Decker shall cooperate with each other in connection with the making of all such filings, including providing copies of all such documents to the non-filing party and its advisors prior to filing and, if requested, accepting all reasonable additions, deletions or changes suggested in connection therewith.  Stanley and Black & Decker shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to furnish to each other all information required for any application or other filing to be made pursuant to any applicable Law in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
SECTION 6.03.  
.
Required Actions
 
(b)  In connection with and without limiting Section 6.03(a), Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Board and Stanley and the Stanley Board shall (i) take all action reasonably appropriate to ensure that no state takeover statute or similar statute or regulation is or becomes applicable to this Agreement or any transaction contemplated by this Agreement and (ii) if any state takeover statute or similar statute or regulation becomes applicable to this Agreement or any transaction contemplated by this Agreement, take all action reasonably appropriate to ensure that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated by this Agreement.
 
57
Table of Contents
 
(c)  Upon the terms and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Stanley and Black & Decker agree, and shall cause each of their respective Subsidiaries, to cooperate and to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain any Consents of any Governmental Entity, and to make any registrations, declarations, notices or filings, if any, necessary for Closing under the HSR Act, and any other Federal, state or foreign Law designed to prohibit, restrict or regulate actions for the purpose or effect of monopolization, restraint of trade or regulation of foreign investment (collectively ), to respond to any requests of any Governmental Entity for information under any Antitrust Law, to secure the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period, to resolve any objections asserted with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement raised by any Governmental Entity and to contest and resist any action, including any legislative, administrative or judicial action, and to prevent the entry of any court order and to have vacated, lifted, reversed or overturned any Judgment (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) that restricts, prevents or prohibits the consummation of the Merger or any other transactions contemplated by this Agreement under any Antitrust Law.  The parties hereto will consult and cooperate with one another, and consider in good faith the views of one another, in connection with any analyses, appearances, presentations, memoranda, briefs, responses, arguments, opinions and proposals made or submitted by or on behalf of any party hereto in connection with proceedings under or relating to any Antitrust Law.  Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Agreement, Stanley and Black & Decker shall not be required to agree to Divestitures of any assets of Stanley or Black & Decker; , , that notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.01, Stanley and Black & Decker shall agree to Divestitures, to the extent necessary, of assets that individually or in the aggregate would not be material in relation to the Black & Decker Power Tools and Accessories segment (or, with respect to any Stanley assets proposed to be subject to Divestiture, comparably sized assets of Stanley).  No actions taken pursuant to this Section 6.03(c) shall be considered for purposes of determining whether a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect or Stanley Material Adverse Effect has occurred.
Antitrust Laws
provided
however
 
                        (a)  As soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, the Black & Decker Board (or, if appropriate, any committee administering the Black & Decker Stock Plans) shall adopt such resolutions or take such other actions (including obtaining any required Consents) as may be required to effect the following (except, with regard to Nolan D. Archibald, as may be set forth in the Executive Chairman Agreement):
 SECTION 6.04.  
.
Stock Awards
 
(i)  adjust the terms of each outstanding Black & Decker Stock Option to provide that, at the Effective Time, each such Black & Decker Stock Option (and, if applicable, related Black & Decker LSAR), whether vested or unvested, outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into, and shall constitute, an option to acquire, on the same terms and conditions as were applicable to such Black & Decker Stock Option immediately prior to the Effective Time, the number of shares of Stanley Common Stock (rounded down to the nearest whole share) determined by multiplying the number of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock subject to such Black & Decker Stock Option by the Exchange Ratio, at an exercise price per share of Stanley Common Stock, rounded up to the nearest whole cent, equal to (A) the per share exercise price for the shares of Black & Decker Common Stock otherwise purchasable pursuant to such Black & Decker Stock Option divided by (B) the Exchange Ratio (each, as so adjusted, an );
Adjusted Option
 
 
58
Table of Contents
 
(ii)  adjust the terms of all outstanding Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units to provide that, at the Effective Time, each Black & Decker Restricted Stock Unit outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time that did not become fully vested and converted into Black & Decker Common Stock upon execution of this Agreement shall be deemed to be fully vested and converted into the number of shares of Stanley Common Stock, rounded down to the nearest whole share, determined by multiplying the number of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock subject to such Black & Decker Restricted Stock Unit by the Exchange Ratio, which shares of Stanley Common Stock shall be delivered to the holders of Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units at or as soon as practicable following the Effective Time;
 
(iii)  adjust the terms of all outstanding Black & Decker Restricted Shares to provide that, at the Effective Time, each Black & Decker Restricted Share outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time that did not become fully vested and converted into Black & Decker Common Stock upon execution of this Agreement shall be deemed to be fully vested immediately prior to the Effective Time; and
 
(iv)  each participant in the Black & Decker Directors Deferred Compensation Plan shall be paid his or her account balance thereunder within 60 days following the Effective Time.
 
(b)  All adjustments to Black & Decker Options and Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Section 6.04 shall be in accordance with, and no amounts shall be payable in respect thereto prior to the time permissible under, the requirements under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
 
(c)  At the Effective Time, Stanley shall assume all of the obligations of Black & Decker under the Black & Decker Stock Plans and the agreements evidencing the grants thereof.  As soon as practicable after the Effective Time, Stanley shall deliver to the holders of Black & Decker Stock Options appropriate notices setting forth such holders rights pursuant to the respective Black & Decker Stock Plans, and the agreements evidencing the grants of such Black & Decker Stock Options shall continue in effect on the same terms and conditions (subject to the adjustments required by this Section 6.04 after giving effect to the Merger).  Stanley shall comply with the terms of the Black & Decker Stock Plans and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure, to the extent required by, and subject to the provisions of, such Black & Decker Stock Plans, that the Black & Decker Stock Options that qualified as incentive stock options (within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code) prior to the Effective Time continue to qualify as incentive stock options (within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code) after the Effective Time.
 
(d)  All amounts payable pursuant to this Section 6.04 shall be subject to any required withholding of Taxes and shall be paid without interest.
 
59
Table of Contents
 
(e)  Stanley shall take all corporate action necessary to reserve for issuance a sufficient number of shares of Stanley Common Stock for delivery (i) with respect to the Black & Decker Restricted Shares and Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units and (ii) in connection with the exercise of the Adjusted Options.  Prior to the Effective Time, Stanley shall cause to be filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-8 (or another appropriate form) registering (to the extent permitted under applicable Law) a number of shares of Stanley Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Stanley Common Stock subject to the Adjusted Options and that will be received by holders of Black & Decker Restricted Shares and Black & Decker Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 6.04(a).  Stanley shall use reasonable efforts to maintain (to the extent permitted under applicable Law) the effectiveness of such registration statement (and maintain the current status of the prospectus or prospectuses contained therein) for so long as any Adjusted Options remain outstanding.  Black & Decker shall cooperate with, and assist Stanley in the preparation of, such registration statement.
 
                          (a)  Stanley agrees that all rights to indemnification, advancement of expenses and exculpation from liabilities for acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Effective Time now existing in favor of the current or former directors or officers of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries (each, an ) as provided in their respective charters or bylaws (or comparable organizational documents) and any indemnification or other similar agreements of Black & Decker or any of the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, in each case as in effect on the date of this Agreement, shall be assumed by Stanley in the Merger, without further action, as of the Effective Time and shall survive the Merger and shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with their terms, and for a period of six years from and after the Effective Time shall not be amended, repealed or otherwise modified in any manner that would adversely affect any right thereunder of any such Indemnified Person.  Stanley shall cause (i) the Surviving Company to honor all such obligations and (ii) the charter and bylaws of the Surviving Company to contain provisions no less favorable with respect to indemnification, advancement of expenses and exculpation of current and former directors and officers of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries than are presently set forth in the Black & Decker Articles and Black & Decker Bylaws, and such provisions shall not be amended, repealed or otherwise modified in any manner that would adversely affect any right thereunder of any person benefited by such provisions.
SECTION 6.05.  
.
Indemnification, Exculpation and Insurance
Indemnified Person
 
(b)  In the event that Stanley or any of its successors or assigns (i) consolidates with or merges into any other Person and is not the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) transfers or conveys all or substantially all of its assets to any Person, then, and in each such case, Stanley shall cause proper provision to be made so that the successors and assigns of Stanley assume the obligations set forth in this Section 6.05 contemporaneous with the closing of any such consolidation, merger, transfer or conveyance.
 
(c)  At or prior to the Effective Time, Stanley shall purchase a tail directors and officers liability insurance policy for Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries and their current and former directors, officers and employees who are currently covered by the directors and officers liability insurance coverage currently maintained by Black & Decker or the Black & Decker Subsidiaries in a form reasonably acceptable to Black & Decker that shall provide such directors, officers and employees with coverage for six years following the Effective Time of not less than the existing coverage and have other terms not less favorable to the insured persons than the directors and officers liability insurance coverage currently maintained by Black & Decker or the Black & Decker Subsidiaries.  Stanley shall maintain such policy in full force and effect, and continue to honor the obligations thereunder.
 
60
Table of Contents
 
(d)  The provisions of this Section 6.05 (i) shall survive consummation of the Merger, (ii) are intended to be for the benefit of, and will be enforceable by, each indemnified or insured party, his or her heirs and his or her representatives and (iii) are in addition to, and not in substitution for, any other rights to indemnification or contribution that any such Person may have by contract or otherwise, including under the terms of the respective charters or bylaws or comparable organizational documents of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries.
 
                          (a)  Except as provided below, all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be paid by the party incurring such fees or expenses, whether or not such transactions are consummated.
SECTION 6.06.  
.
Fees and Expenses
 
(b)  Stanley shall pay to Black & Decker a fee of $125,000,000 (the ) if:
Stanley Termination Fee
 
(i)  Black & Decker terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01(e); or
 
(ii)  (A) prior to the Stanley Shareholders Meeting, a Stanley Takeover Proposal shall have been made to Stanley and shall have become publicly known or shall have been made directly to the shareholders of Stanley generally or shall otherwise become publicly known or any Person shall have publicly announced an intention (whether or not conditional) to make a Stanley Takeover Proposal, (B) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(i) (only to the extent that the Stanley Shareholders Meeting has not been held) or Section 8.01(b)(iii) and (C) within 12 months of such termination Stanley enters into a definitive Contract to consummate a Stanley Takeover Proposal or any Stanley Takeover Proposal is consummated.  For the purposes of Section 6.06(b)(ii)(C) only, the term Stanley Takeover Proposal shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 5.02(e) except that all references to 10% therein shall be deemed to be references to 50%.
 
Any Stanley Termination Fee due under this Section 6.06(b) shall be paid by wire transfer of same-day funds (x) in the case of clause (i) above, on the Business Day immediately following the date of termination of this Agreement and (y) in the case of clause (ii) above, on the date of the first to occur of the events referred to in clause (ii)(C) above.
 
(c)  Black & Decker shall pay to Stanley a fee of $125,000,000 (the ) if:
Black & Decker Termination Fee
 
(i)  Stanley terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01(f); or
 
(ii)  (A) prior to the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting, a Black & Decker Takeover Proposal shall have been made to Black & Decker and shall have become publicly known or shall have been made directly to the stockholders of Black & Decker generally or shall otherwise become publicly known or any Person shall have publicly announced an intention (whether or not conditional) to make a Black & Decker Takeover Proposal, (B) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(i) (only to the extent that the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting has not been held) or Section 8.01(b)(iv) and (C) within 12 months of such termination Black & Decker enters into a definitive Contract to consummate a Black & Decker Takeover Proposal or a Black & Decker Takeover Proposal is consummated.  For the purposes of Section 6.06(c)(ii)(C) only, the term Black & Decker Takeover Proposal shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 5.03(e) except that all references to 10% therein shall be deemed to be references to 50%.
 
61
Table of Contents
 
Any Black & Decker Termination Fee due under this Section 6.06(c) shall be paid by wire transfer of same-day funds (x) in the case of clause (i) above, on the Business Day immediately following the date of termination of this Agreement and (y) in the case of clause (ii) above, on the date of the first to occur of the events referred to in clause (ii)(C) above.
 
(d)  Stanley and Black & Decker acknowledge and agree that the agreements contained in Sections 6.06(b) and 6.06(c) are an integral part of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and that, without these agreements, neither Black & Decker nor Stanley would enter into this Agreement.  Accordingly, if Stanley fails promptly to pay the amount due pursuant to Section 6.06(b) or Black & Decker fails promptly to pay the amount due pursuant to Section 6.06(c), and, in order to obtain such payment, the Person owed such payment commences a suit, action or other proceeding that results in a Judgment in its favor for such payment, the Person owing such payment shall pay to the Person owed such payment its costs and expenses (including attorneys fees and expenses) in connection with such suit, action or other proceeding, together with interest on the amount of such payment from the date such payment was required to be made until the date of payment at the rate of 3-month LIBOR as of the date such payment was required to be made plus 1%.
 
                          (a)  Black & Decker, Stanley and Merger Sub shall each use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Merger to qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment, including by (i) not taking any action that such party knows is reasonably likely to prevent such qualification and (ii) executing such amendments to this Agreement as may be reasonably required in order to obtain such qualification (it being understood that no party will be required to agree to any such amendment).  Each of Black & Decker and Stanley will report the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement in a manner consistent with the Intended Tax Treatment.
SECTION 6.07.  
.
Certain Tax Matters
 
(b)  Black & Decker, Stanley and Merger Sub shall each use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the Tax opinions described in Sections 7.02(d) and 7.03(d), including by making representations and covenants requested by Tax counsel in order to render such Tax opinions.  Each of Black & Decker, Stanley and Merger Sub shall use its commercially reasonable efforts not to take or cause to be taken any action that would cause to be untrue (or fail to take or cause not to be taken any action which inaction would cause to be untrue) any of the representations and covenants made to Tax counsel in furtherance of such Tax opinions.
 
62
Table of Contents
 
                          Black & Decker shall give Stanley the opportunity to participate in the defense or settlement of any stockholder litigation against Black & Decker or its directors relating to the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and no such settlement shall be agreed to without the prior written consent of Stanley, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.  Stanley shall give Black & Decker the opportunity to participate in the defense or settlement of any shareholder litigation against Stanley or its directors relating to the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and no such settlement shall be agreed to without the prior written consent of Black & Decker, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.
SECTION 6.08.  
.
Transaction Litigation
 
                          Prior to the Effective Time, Black & Decker, Stanley and Merger Sub each shall take all such steps as may be required to cause (a) any dispositions of Black & Decker Common Stock (including derivative securities with respect to Black & Decker Common Stock) resulting from the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, by each individual who will be subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to Black & Decker immediately prior to the Effective Time, to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act and (b) any acquisitions of Stanley Common Stock (including derivative securities with respect to Stanley Common Stock) resulting from the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, by each individual who may become or is reasonably expected to become subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to Stanley immediately following the Effective Time, to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
SECTION 6.09.  
.
Section 16 Matters
 
                          Black & Decker and Stanley shall cause the matters set forth on to occur.
SECTION 6.10.  
.
Governance Matters
Exhibit C
 
                          Except with respect to any Black & Decker Adverse Recommendation Change or Stanley Adverse Recommendation Change made in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Stanley and Black & Decker shall consult with each other before issuing, and give each other the opportunity to review and comment upon, any press release or other public statements with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Merger, and shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement prior to such consultation, except as such party may reasonably conclude may be required by applicable Law, court process or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with any national securities exchange or national securities quotation system.  Black & Decker and Stanley agree that the initial press release to be issued with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be in the form heretofore agreed to by the parties.
SECTION 6.11.  
.
Public Announcements
 
                          Stanley shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the shares of Stanley Common Stock to be issued in the Merger and any shares of Stanley Common Stock issuable following the Effective Time in respect of rights under the Black & Decker Stock Plans to be approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance, prior to the Closing Date.
SECTION 6.12.  
Stock Exchange Listing.
 
63
Table of Contents
 
                          (a)  From the Effective Time through December 31, 2010, the employees of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries who remain in the employment of Stanley and the Stanley Subsidiaries (including Black & Decker and any Black & Decker Subsidiary) (the ) shall receive compensation and benefits that are comparable in the aggregate to the compensation and benefits provided to such employees of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries immediately prior to the Effective Time.
SECTION 6.13.  
.
Employee Matters
Continuing Employees
 
(b)  With respect to any employee benefit plan maintained by Stanley or any of the Stanley Subsidiaries in which Continuing Employees and their eligible dependents will be eligible to participate from and after the Effective Time, for all purposes, including determining eligibility to participate, level of benefits including benefit accruals (other than benefit accruals under defined benefit plans) and vesting service recognized by Black & Decker and any Black & Decker Subsidiary immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be treated as service with Stanley or the Stanley Subsidiaries; , , that such service need not be recognized to the extent that such recognition would result in any duplication of benefits.
provided
however
 
(c)  With respect to any welfare plan maintained by Stanley or any Stanley Subsidiary in which Continuing Employees are eligible to participate after the Effective Time, Stanley or such Stanley Subsidiary shall (i) waive all limitations as to preexisting conditions and exclusions with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to such employees to the extent such conditions and exclusions were satisfied or did not apply to such employees under the welfare plans of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries prior to the Effective Time and (ii) provide each Continuing Employee with credit for any co-payments and deductibles paid and for out-of-pocket maximums incurred prior to the Effective Time in satisfying any analogous deductible or out-of-pocket requirements to the extent applicable under any such plan.
 
(d)  Stanley shall, and shall cause the Stanley Subsidiaries to, honor, in accordance with its terms, each Black & Decker Benefit Plan and all obligations thereunder, including any rights or benefits arising as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby (either alone or in combination with any other event), and Stanley hereby acknowledges that, if and to the extent a change of control or change in control is not deemed to have occurred as of the execution of this Agreement, the consummation of the Merger constitutes a change of control or a change in control, as the case may be, for all purposes under such Black & Decker Benefit Plans.
 
(e)  Nothing contained herein shall be construed as requiring, and Black & Decker shall take no action that would have the effect of requiring, Stanley to continue any specific plans or to continue the employment of any specific person.  Furthermore, no provision of this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting or limiting the ability of Stanley to amend, modify or terminate any plans, programs, policies, arrangements, agreements or understandings of Stanley or Black & Decker. Without limiting the scope of Section 9.07, nothing in this Section 6.13 shall confer any rights or remedies of any kind or description upon any Continuing Employee or any other person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
 
64
Table of Contents
 
                        .  Stanley shall cause Merger Sub to perform its obligations under this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement.
SECTION 6.14.  
Obligations of Merger Sub
 
                          Black & Decker shall cooperate with Stanley in connection with any action taken by Stanley related to the replacement of any credit facility or other Indebtedness of Black & Decker that will not continue after the Effective Time, including any increase in the size of, or any other amendment to, Stanleys credit facilities.  In connection therewith, Black & Decker shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to, among other things (a) provide information relating to itself and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries reasonably requested by Stanley, (b) participate in a reasonable number of meetings and sessions with rating agencies and potential financing sources, and (c) assist Stanley in seeking to obtain benefits from the existing lending relationships of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries.
SECTION 6.15.  
.
Assistance in Financing Efforts of Stanley
 
                          Black & Decker shall take or cause to be taken all corporate action necessary for the Surviving Company Bylaws to be the bylaws of the Surviving Company from and after the Effective Time in accordance with Section 1.05.
SECTION 6.16.  
.
Bylaws of the Surviving Company
 
 
 
 
                          The respective obligation of each party to effect the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
SECTION 7.01.  
.
Conditions to Each Partys Obligation to Effect the Merger
 
(a)    The Stanley Shareholder Approval, the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval and the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval shall have been obtained.
Shareholder and Stockholder Approvals.
 
(b)    The shares of Stanley Common Stock issuable as Merger Consideration pursuant to this Agreement, and any shares of Stanley Common Stock issuable following the Effective Time in respect of rights under the Black & Decker Stock Plans, shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance.
Listing.
 
(c)    All authorizations, consents, orders or approvals of, or declarations or filings with, or expirations of waiting periods imposed by, any Governmental Entity necessary under any Antitrust Law in connection with the Merger and the consummation of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, if any, shall have been filed, been obtained or occurred.
Antitrust.
 
(d)    No applicable Law and no Judgment, preliminary, temporary or permanent, or other legal restraint or prohibition (collectively, the ) shall be in effect that prevents the consummation of the Merger or that would reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in (i) any prohibition or limitation on the ownership or operation by Black & Decker, Stanley or any of their respective Subsidiaries of any portion of the business, properties or assets of Black & Decker, Stanley or any of their respective Subsidiaries, (ii) Black & Decker, Stanley or any of their respective Subsidiaries being compelled to dispose of or hold separate any portion of the business, properties or assets of Black & Decker, Stanley or any of their respective Subsidiaries, in each case as a result of the Merger, (iii) any prohibition or limitation on the ability of Stanley to acquire or hold, or exercise full right of ownership of, any shares of the capital stock of the Surviving Company or the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, including the right to vote, or (iv) any prohibition or limitation on Stanley effectively controlling the business or operations of Black & Decker and the Black & Decker Subsidiaries, other than, in each of clauses (i) through (iv), with respect to any assets of Stanley or Black & Decker that individually or in the aggregate would not be material in relation to the Black & Decker Power Tools and Accessories segment (or, with respect to any Stanley assets that are the subject of the foregoing clauses, comparably sized assets of Stanley).
No Legal Restraints.
Legal Restraints
 
65
Table of Contents
 
(e)    The Form S-4 shall have become effective under the Securities Act and shall not be the subject of any stop order or proceedings seeking a stop order, and Stanley shall have received all state securities or blue sky authorizations necessary for the issuance of the Merger Consideration.
Form S-4.
 
                          The obligation of Black & Decker to consummate the Merger is further subject to the following conditions:
SECTION 7.02.  
.
Conditions to Obligations of Black & Decker
 
(a)    The representations and warranties of Stanley and Merger Sub contained in this Agreement (except for the representations and warranties contained in Section 3.03) shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to materiality or Stanley Material Adverse Effect set forth therein) at and as of the date of this Agreement and at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of such time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to materiality or Stanley Material Adverse Effect set forth therein), individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect, and the representations and warranties of Stanley and Merger Sub contained in Section 3.03 shall be true and correct in all material respects at and as of the date of this Agreement and at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of such time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date).  Black & Decker shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of each of Stanley and Merger Sub by an executive officer of each of Stanley and Merger Sub, respectively, to such effect.
Representations and Warranties.
 
(b)    Stanley and Merger Sub shall have performed in all material respects all material obligations required to be performed by them under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and Black & Decker shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of each of Stanley and Merger Sub by an executive officer of each of Stanley and Merger Sub, respectively, to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of Stanley and Merger Sub.
 
66
Table of Contents
 
(c)    Since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred any event or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Stanley Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Stanley Material Adverse Effect.
 
(d)    Black & Decker shall have received the opinion of Hogan & Hartson LLP, or such other nationally recognized Tax counsel reasonably satisfactory to Black & Decker, as of the date on which the Form S-4 is declared effective and as of the Closing Date to the effect that the Merger will qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment.  In rendering the opinion described in this Section 7.02(d), the Tax counsel rendering such opinion may require and rely upon (and may incorporate by reference) reasonable and customary representations and covenants, including those contained in certificates of officers of Black & Decker, Stanley and Merger Sub.
Tax Opinion.
 
                          The obligation of Stanley and Merger Sub to consummate the Merger is further subject to the following conditions:
SECTION 7.03.  
.
Conditions to Obligation of Stanley
 
(a)    The representations and warranties of Black & Decker contained in this Agreement (except for the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.03) shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to materiality or Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect set forth therein) at and as of the date of this Agreement and at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of such time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to materiality or Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect set forth therein), individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect, and the representations and warranties of Black & Decker contained in Section 4.03 shall be true and correct in all material respects at and as of the date of this Agreement and at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of such time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date).  Stanley shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Black & Decker by an executive officer of Black & Decker to such effect.
Representations and Warranties.
 
(b)    Black & Decker shall have performed in all material respects all material obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and Stanley shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Black & Decker by an executive officer of Black & Decker to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of Black & Decker.
 
(c)    Since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred any event or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect.
 
(d)    Stanley shall have received the opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, or such other nationally recognized Tax counsel reasonably satisfactory to Stanley, as of thedate on which the Form S-4 is declared effective and as of the Closing Date to the effect that the Merger will qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment.  In rendering the opinion described in this Section 7.03(d), the Tax counsel rendering such opinion may require and rely upon (and may incorporate by reference) reasonable and customary representations and covenants, including those contained in certificates of officers of Black & Decker, Stanley and Merger Sub.
Tax Opinion.
 
 
 
67
Table of Contents
 
 
 
                       This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after receipt of the Stanley Shareholder Approval, the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval or the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval:
  SECTION 8.01.  
.
Termination
 
(a)  by mutual written consent of Black & Decker and Stanley;
 
(b)  by either Black & Decker or Stanley:
 
(i)  if the Merger is not consummated on or before the End Date.  The  shall mean June 30, 2010; , , that if on June 30, 2010 the conditions to Closing set forth in any or all of Section 7.01(c) or 7.01(d) shall not have been satisfied or waived but all other conditions to Closing shall have been satisfied or waived (or in the case of conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, shall be capable of being satisfied on such date), then the End Date shall be automatically extended to September 30, 2010; and , that the right to terminate this Agreement under this Section 8.01(b)(i) shall not be available to any party if such failure of the Merger to occur on or before the End Date is the result of a breach of this Agreement by such party (including, in the case of Stanley, Merger Sub) or the failure of any representation or warranty of such party (including, in the case of Stanley, Merger Sub) contained in this Agreement to be true and correct;
End Date
provided
however
provided
further
 
(ii)  if the condition set forth in Section 7.01(d) is not satisfied and the Legal Restraint giving rise to such non-satisfaction shall have become final and non-appealable; that the terminating party shall have complied with its obligations to use its reasonable best efforts pursuant to Section 6.03;
provided
 
(iii)  if the Stanley Shareholder Approval or the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval is not obtained at the Stanley Shareholders Meeting duly convened (unless such Stanley Shareholders Meeting has been adjourned, in which case at the final adjournment thereof); or
 
(iv)  if the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval is not obtained at the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting duly convened (unless such Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting has been adjourned, in which case at the final adjournment thereof);
 
(c)  by Black & Decker, if Stanley or Merger Sub breaches or fails to perform any of its covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement, or if any of the representations or warranties of Stanley or Merger Sub contained herein fails to be true and correct, which breach or failure (i) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in Section 7.02(a) or 7.02(b) and (ii) is not reasonably capable of being cured by the End Date or, if reasonably capable of being cured, Stanley or Merger Sub, as the case may be, is not diligently attempting, or has ceased to diligently attempt, to cure such breach or failure after receiving written notice from Black & Decker ( that Black & Decker is not then in breach of any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement and no representation or warranty of Black & Decker contained herein then fails to be true and correct such that the conditions set forth in Section 7.03(a) or 7.03(b) could not then be satisfied);
provided
 
68
Table of Contents
 
(d)  by Stanley, if Black & Decker breaches or fails to perform any of its covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement, or if any of the representations or warranties of Black & Decker contained herein fails to be true and correct, which breach or failure (i) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in Section 7.03(a) or 7.03(b) and (ii) is not reasonably capable of being cured by the End Date or, if reasonably capable of being cured, Black & Decker is not diligently attempting, or has ceased to diligently attempt, to cure such breach or failure after receiving written notice from Stanley ( that Stanley or Merger Sub is not then in breach of any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement and no representation or warranty of Stanley or Merger Sub contained herein then fails to be true and correct such that the conditions set forth in Section 7.02(a) or 7.02(b) could not then be satisfied);
provided
 
(e)  by Black & Decker, in the event that a Stanley Adverse Recommendation Change shall have occurred; that Black & Decker shall no longer be entitled to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 8.01(e) if the Stanley Shareholder Approval and the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval are obtained at the Stanley Shareholders Meeting; or
provided
 
(f)  by Stanley, in the event that a Black & Decker Adverse Recommendation Change shall have occurred; that Stanley shall no longer be entitled to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 8.01(f) if the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval is obtained at the Black & Decker Stockholders Meeting.
provided
 
                          In the event of termination of this Agreement by either Stanley or Black & Decker as provided in Section 8.01, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and have no effect, without any liability or obligation on the part of Black & Decker, Stanley or Merger Sub, other than Section 3.18, Section 4.18, the last sentence of Section 6.02, Section 6.06, this Section 8.02 and Article IX, which provisions shall survive such termination indefinitely, and except in the case of fraud or any willful and material breach by a party of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement set forth in this Agreement.  For purposes of this Agreement, willful and material breach means a deliberate act or failure to act, which act or failure to act constitutes in and of itself a material breach of this Agreement that the breaching party is aware would or would reasonably be expected to breach its obligations under this Agreement.
SECTION 8.02.  
.
Effect of Termination
 
                      This Agreement may be amended by the parties at any time before or after receipt of the Stanley Shareholder Approval, the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval or the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval; , , that (i) after receipt of the Stanley Shareholder Approval and the Stanley Articles Amendment Approval, there shall be made no amendment that by Law requires further approval by the shareholders of Stanley without the further approval of such shareholders, (ii) after receipt of the Black & Decker Stockholder Approval, there shall be made no amendment that by Law requires further approval by the stockholders of Black & Decker without the further approval of such stockholders, (iii) no amendment shall be made to this Agreement after the Effective Time and (iv) except as provided above, no amendment of this Agreement shall require the approval of the shareholders of Stanley or the stockholders of Black & Decker.  This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed on behalf of each of the parties.
SECTION 8.03.  
.
Amendment
provided
however
 
69
Table of Contents
 
                      At any time prior to the Effective Time, the parties may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of the other parties, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties contained in this Agreement or in any document delivered pursuant to this Agreement, (c) waive compliance with any covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement or (d) waive the satisfaction of any of the conditions contained in this Agreement.  No extension or waiver by Stanley shall require the approval of the shareholders of Stanley unless such approval is required by Law and no extension or waiver by Black & Decker shall require the approval of the stockholders of Black & Decker unless such approval is required by Law.  Any agreement on the part of a party to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such party.  The failure of any party to this Agreement to assert any of its rights under this Agreement or otherwise shall not constitute a waiver of such rights.
SECTION 8.04.  
.
Extension; Waiver
 
                      A termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01, an amendment of this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.03 or an extension or waiver pursuant to Section 8.04 shall, in order to be effective, require, in the case of Black & Decker, Stanley or Merger Sub, action by its Board of Directors, or the duly authorized designee of its Board of Directors.  Termination of this Agreement prior to the Effective Time shall not require the approval of the shareholders of Stanley or the stockholders of Black & Decker.
SECTION 8.05.  
.
Procedure for Termination, Amendment, Extension or Waiver
 
 
 
 
                      None of the representations and warranties in this Agreement or in any instrument delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall survive the Effective Time.  This Section 9.01 shall not limit any covenant or agreement of a party which by its terms contemplates performance after the Effective Time.
SECTION 9.01.  
.
Nonsurvival of Representations and Warranties
 
                     All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon receipt by the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
 SECTION 9.02.  
.
Notices
 
 
70
Table of Contents
 
 
if to Black & Decker, to:
The Black & Decker Corporation
701 East Joppa Road
Towson, Maryland 21286
Facsimile:  (410) 716-2660
Attention:  Charles E. Fenton, Senior Vice President and General Counsel
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Hogan & Hartson LLP
Harbor East
100 International Drive, Suite 2000
Baltimore, Maryland 21202
Facsimile:  (410) 659-2701
Attention:  Glenn C. Campbell, Esq.
if to Stanley or Merger Sub, to:
The Stanley Works
1000 Stanley Drive
New Britain, Connecticut 06053
Facsimile:  860-827-3911
Attention:  Bruce H. Beatt, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
Worldwide Plaza
825 Eighth Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Facsimile:  (212) 474-3700
Attention:  Robert I. Townsend, III, Esq.
                    Mark I. Greene, Esq.
                          For purposes of this Agreement:
SECTION 9.03.  
.
Definitions
 
An  of any Person means another Person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such first Person.
Affiliate
 
 means any limited tandem stock appreciation rights granted under a Black & Decker Stock Plan.
Black & Decker LSARs
 
 means a Material Adverse Effect with respect to Black & Decker.
Black & Decker Material Adverse Effect
 
 
71
Table of Contents
 
 means any restricted stock unit that is subject to performance-based vesting or whose value is determined with reference to the value of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock, and granted under any Black & Decker Stock Plan.
Black & Decker Performance Share Unit
 
 means any award of Black & Decker Common Stock that is subject to restrictions based on performance or continuing service and granted under any Black & Decker Stock Plan.
Black & Decker Restricted Share
 
 means any restricted stock unit payable in shares of Black & Decker Common Stock or whose value is determined with reference to the value of shares of Black & Decker Common Stock and granted under any Black & Decker Stock Plan.
Black & Decker Restricted Stock Unit
 
 means any option to purchase Black & Decker Common Stock granted under any Black & Decker Stock Plan.
Black & Decker Stock Option
 
 means the Black & Decker 2003 Stock Option Plan, the Black & Decker 1996 Stock Option Plan, the Black & Decker 1992 Stock Option Plan, the Black & Decker 1989 Stock Option Plan, the Black & Decker 2008 Restricted Stock Plan, the Black & Decker 2004 Restricted Stock Plan, the Black & Decker Performance Equity Plan, the Black & Decker 1995 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, and the Black & Decker Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan.
Black & Decker Stock Plans
 
 means any day other than (i) a Saturday or a Sunday or (ii) a day on which banking and savings and loan institutions are authorized or required by Law to be closed in New York City.
Business Day
 
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
A  of any asset means (i) any sale, transfer, license, separate holding, divestiture or other disposition, or any prohibition of, or any limitation on, the acquisition, ownership, operation, effective control or exercise of full rights of ownership, of such asset or (ii) the termination or amendment of any existing relationships or contractual rights.
Divestiture
 
 means, with respect to any Person, without duplication, (i) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, or with respect to unearned advances of any kind to such Person, (ii) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (iii) all capitalized lease obligations of such Person, (iv) all guarantees and arrangements having the economic effect of a guarantee of such Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person, and (v) all obligations or undertakings of such Person to maintain or cause to be maintained the financial position of others or to purchase the obligations of others.
Indebtedness
 
The  of (a) Black & Decker means, with respect to any matter in question, the actual knowledge of the following officers of Black & Decker:  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Senior Vice President  Human Resources and Corporate Initiatives; Vice President  Business Development; Vice President  Investor Relations; and Treasurer and Vice President  Taxes, and (b) Stanley or Merger Sub means, with respect to any matter in question, the actual knowledge of any of the following officers of Stanley:  Chief Executive Officer; Chief Operating Officer; Chief Financial Officer; Treasurer; General Counsel; Vice President  Corporate Tax; Vice President  Business Development; and Vice President  Human Resources.  A fact is  to a Person if that Person has Knowledge of the fact.
Knowledge
Known
 
72
Table of Contents
 
 with respect to any Person means any event or development that materially and adversely affects the business, properties, financial condition or results of operations of such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, excluding any effect that is attributable to, results from or arises in connection with (a) changes or conditions generally affecting the industries in which such Person and any of its Subsidiaries operate, except to the extent such effect has a materially disproportionate effect on such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, relative to others in the industries in which such Person and any of its Subsidiaries operate, (b) announcement of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any loss of customers or revenues in connection therewith), (c) the outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any acts of war, sabotage or terrorism, or any earthquake, hurricane, tornado or other natural disaster, except to the extent such effect has a materially disproportionate effect on such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, relative to others in the industries in which such Person and any of its Subsidiaries operate, (d)  general economic or regulatory, legislative or political conditions or securities, credit, financial or other capital markets conditions, in each case in the United States or any foreign jurisdiction, except to the extent such effect has a materially disproportionate effect on such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, relative to others in the industries in which such Person and any of its Subsidiaries operate, or (e) any failure, in and of itself, to meet projections, forecasts, estimates or predictions in respect of revenues, earnings or other financial or operating metrics for any period (it being understood that the underlying facts or occurrences giving rise to or contributing to such failure shall be taken into account in determining whether there has been a Material Adverse Effect (except to the extent such underlying facts or occurrences are excluded from being taken into account by clauses (a) through (d) of this definition)).
Material Adverse Effect
 
 means any natural person, firm, corporation, partnership, company, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, Governmental Entity or other entity.
Person
 
 means a Material Adverse Effect with respect to Stanley.
Stanley Material Adverse Effect
 
 means any restricted stock unit that is subject to performance-based vesting and whose value is determined with reference to the value of shares of Stanley Common Stock, and granted under any Stanley Stock Plan.
Stanley Performance Share Unit
 
 means any restricted stock unit payable in shares of Stanley Common Stock or whose value is determined with reference to the value of shares of Stanley Common Stock and granted under any Stanley Stock Plan.
Stanley Restricted Stock Unit
 
 means any option to purchase Stanley Common Stock granted under any Stanley Stock Plan.
Stanley Stock Option
 
73
Table of Contents
 
                       means the Stanley 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Stanley 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Stanley 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Stanley 1990 Stock Option Plan, and the Stanley Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
Stanley Stock Plans
 
                      A  of any Person means another Person, an amount of the voting securities, other voting ownership or voting partnership interests of which is sufficient to elect at least a majority of its Board of Directors or other governing body (or, if there are no such voting interests, more than 50% of the equity interests of which) is owned directly or indirectly by such first Person.
Subsidiary
 
 means all taxes, customs, tariffs, imposts, levies, duties, fees or other like assessments or charges of any kind imposed by a Governmental Entity, together with all interest, penalties and additions imposed with respect to such amounts.
Taxes
 
 means all Tax returns, declarations, statements, reports, schedules, forms and information returns and any amended Tax return relating to Taxes.
Tax Return
 
                          When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or a Section, such reference shall be to an Article or a Section of this Agreement unless otherwise indicated.  The table of contents, index of defined terms and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.  Any capitalized term used in any Exhibit but not otherwise defined therein shall have the meaning assigned to such term in this Agreement.  Whenever the words include, includes or including are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words without limitation.  The words hereof, hereto, hereby, herein and hereunder and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement.  The term or is not exclusive.  The word extent in the phrase to the extent shall mean the degree to which a subject or other thing extends, and such phrase shall not mean simply if.  The word will shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word shall.  The words assets and properties shall be deemed to have the same meaning, and to refer to all assets and properties, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible.  The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms.  Any agreement, instrument or Law defined or referred to herein means such agreement, instrument or Law as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, unless otherwise specifically indicated.  References to a person are also to its permitted successors and assigns.  Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all references to dollars and $ will be deemed references to the lawful money of the United States of America.
SECTION 9.04.  
.
Interpretation
 
                          If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule of Law, or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as either the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party or such party waives its rights under this Section 9.05 with respect thereto.  Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner to the end that the transactions contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the extent possible.
SECTION 9.05.  
.
Severability
 
74
Table of Contents
 
                          This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic image scan transmission shall be effective as delivery of an original counterpart hereof.
SECTION 9.06.  
.
Counterparts
 
                         This Agreement, taken together with the Stanley Disclosure Letter and the Black & Decker Disclosure Letter and the Confidentiality Agreement, (a) constitutes the entire agreement, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties with respect to the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and (b) except for Section 6.05, is not intended to confer upon any Person other than the parties any rights or remedies.
 SECTION 9.07.  
.
Entire Agreement; No Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
                          THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, REGARDLESS OF THE LAWS THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE GOVERN UNDER ANY APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, EXCEPT FOR SUCH PROVISIONS WHERE MARYLAND LAW IS MANDATORILY APPLICABLE, WHICH PROVISIONS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
SECTION 9.08.  
.
GOVERNING LAW
 
                          Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations under this Agreement shall be assigned, in whole or in part, by operation of Law or otherwise by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other parties.  Any purported assignment without such consent shall be void.  Subject to the preceding sentences, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
SECTION 9.09.  
.
Assignment
 
                          The parties acknowledge and agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached, and that monetary damages, even if available, would not be an adequate remedy therefor.  It is accordingly agreed that, prior to the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Article VIII, the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the performance of terms and provisions of this Agreement in any court referred to in clause (a) below, without proof of actual damages (and each party hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy), this being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity.  The parties further agree not to assert that a remedy of specific enforcement is unenforceable, invalid, contrary to Law or inequitable for any reason, nor to assert that a remedy of monetary damages would provide an adequate remedy for any such breach.  In addition, each of the parties hereto (a) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of any New York state court or any Federal court located in the State of New York in the event any dispute arises out of this Agreement, the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (b) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court and (c) agrees that it will not bring any action relating to this Agreement, the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any court other than any New York state court or any Federal court sitting in the State of New York.
SECTION 9.10.  
.
Specific Enforcement
 
75
Table of Contents
 
                          Each party hereto hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any suit, action or other proceeding arising out of this Agreement, the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.  Each party hereto (a) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of any other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such party would not, in the event of any action, suit or proceeding, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (b) acknowledges that it and the other parties hereto have been induced to enter into this Agreement by, among other things, the mutual waiver and certifications in this Section 9.11.
SECTION 9.11.  
.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
 
 
76
Table of Contents
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Black & Decker, Stanley and Merger Sub have duly executed this Agreement, all as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
[]
Signature Page to Merger Agreement
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
ii
Table of Contents
 
 
 
iii
Table of Contents
 
 
 
iv
Table of Contents
 
The name of the corporation (the Corporation) is The Black & Decker Corporation.
 
The purposes for which the Corporation is formed are to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the general laws of the State of Maryland as now or hereafter in force.
 
The address of the principal office of the Corporation in the State of Maryland is c/o The Corporation Trust Incorporated, 300 East Lombard Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.
 
The name of the resident agent of the Corporation in the State of Maryland is The Corporation Trust Incorporated, and its address is 300 East Lombard Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.  The resident agent is a Maryland corporation.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Section 5.1        .  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors.  The number of directors of the Corporation is three, which number may be increased or decreased pursuant to the Bylaws of the Corporation (the Bylaws), but shall never be less than the minimum number required by the Maryland General Corporation Law (the MGCL).  The names of the directors who shall serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualify are:
Number of Directors
 
Bruce H. Beatt
Kathryn P. Sherer
Donald J. Riccitelli
 
The directors may increase the number of directors and may fill any vacancy, whether resulting from an increase in the number of directors or otherwise, on the Board of Directors in the manner provided in the Bylaws.
 
Section 5.2        .  The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance from time to time of shares of stock of the Corporation of any class or series, whether now or hereafter authorized, or securities or rights convertible into shares of its stock of any class or series, whether now or hereafter authorized, for such consideration as the Board of Directors may deem advisable (or without consideration in the case of a stock split or stock dividend), subject to such restrictions or limitations, if any, as may be set forth in the charter (the Charter) or the Bylaws.
Authorization by Board of Stock Issuance
 
Section 5.3        .  The Corporation shall have the power, to the full extent permitted by, and in the manner permissible under, the laws of the State of Maryland and other applicable laws and regulations, to indemnify, and pay and advance expenses for the benefit of, any person who is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation, or who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation or entity, or who is or was serving as an officer or director of the Corporation or at the request of the Corporation as an officer or director (or similar position) of another corporation or entity, who by reason of his or her position was, is, or is threatened to be made a party to an action or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, against any and all expenses (including, but not limited to, attorneys fees, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement) actually incurred by the director, officer, employee or agent in connection with the proceeding.  The Corporation shall have the power to indemnify, and to pay and advance expenses for the benefit of, any individual who served a predecessor of the Corporation in any of the capacities described above.  Repeal or modification of this Section 5.3 or the relevant law shall not affect adversely any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or any action, suit, or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts.
Indemnification
 
Section 5.4        .  Holders of shares of stock shall not be entitled to exercise any rights of an objecting stockholder provided for under Title 3, Subtitle 2 of the MGCL or any successor statute unless the Board of Directors, upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, shall determine that such rights apply, with respect to all or any classes or series of stock, to one or more transactions occurring after the date of such determination in connection with which holders of such shares would otherwise be entitled to exercise such rights.
Appraisal Rights
 
 
2
Table of Contents
 
Section 5.5        .  Notwithstanding any provision of law permitting or requiring any action to be taken or approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares entitled to cast a greater number of votes, any such action shall be effective and valid if declared advisable by the Board of Directors and taken or approved by the affirmative vote of holders of shares entitled to cast a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter.
Extraordinary Actions
 
Section 5.6        .  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing or by electronic transmission of stockholders entitled to cast not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take the action at a meeting of stockholders is delivered to the Corporation in accordance with the MGCL.
Consent in Lieu of Meeting
 
Section 6.1        .  The Corporation has authority to issue 100 shares of stock, consisting of 100 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share.  The aggregate par value of all authorized shares of stock having par value is $1.00.  The Board of Directors, with the approval of a majority of the entire Board and without any action by the stockholders of the Corporation, may amend the Charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that the Corporation has authority to issue.
Authorized Shares
 
Section 6.2        .  The Board of Directors may reclassify any unissued shares of stock of the Corporation from time to time in one or more classes or series of stock.  If shares of one class of stock are classified or reclassified into shares of another class of stock pursuant to this Article VI, the number of authorized shares of the former class shall be automatically decreased and the number of shares of the latter class shall be automatically increased, in each case by the number of shares so classified or reclassified, so that the aggregate number of shares of stock of all classes that the Corporation has authority to issue shall not be more than the total number of shares of stock set forth in the first sentence of Section 6.1.  Prior to issuance of classified or reclassified shares of any class or series, the Board of Directors by resolution shall: (i) designate that class or series to distinguish it from all other classes and series of stock of the Corporation; (ii) specify the number of shares to be included in the class or series; (iii) set or change, subject to the express terms of any class or series of stock of the Corporation outstanding at the time, the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption for each class or series; and (iv) cause the Corporation to file articles supplementary with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland.  Any of the terms of any class or series of stock set or changed pursuant to clause (iii) of this Section 6.2 may be made dependent upon facts or events ascertainable outside the Charter (including determinations by the Board of Directors or other facts or events within the control of the Corporation) and may vary among holders thereof, provided that the manner in which such facts, events or variations shall operate upon the terms of such class or series of stock is clearly and expressly set forth in the articles supplementary or other charter document.
Classified or Reclassified Shares
 
3
Table of Contents
 
Section 6.3        .  The rights of all stockholders and the terms of all stock are subject to the provisions of the Charter and the Bylaws.  The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the exclusive power to make, alter, amend or repeal the Bylaws.
Charter and Bylaws
 
The Corporation reserves the right from time to time to make any amendment to its Charter, now or hereafter authorized by law, including any amendment altering the terms or contract rights, as expressly set forth in the Charter, of any shares of outstanding stock.  All rights and powers conferred by the Charter on stockholders, directors and officers are granted subject to this reservation.
 
To the fullest extent permitted by Maryland law, as it may be amended from time to time, no person who at any time was or is a director or officer of the Corporation shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for money damages. No amendment of the Charter or repeal of any of its provisions shall limit or eliminate any of the benefits provided to directors and officers under this Article VIII in respect of any act or omission that occurred prior to such amendment or repeal.
 
 
4
Table of Contents
The Stanley Articles shall be amended to:
(a)  increase the authorized shares of stock of Stanley from 210,000,000 shares, divided into 200,000,000 common shares of par value of $2.50 per share and 10,000,000 preferred shares, without par value, to 310,000,000 shares, divided into 300,000,000 common shares of par value of $2.50 per share and 10,000,000 preferred shares, without par value; and
 
(b)  change the name of Stanley to Stanley Black & Decker.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
(a)  Stanley shall take all necessary action to cause, effective at the Effective Time, the Stanley Board to be comprised of nine directors from Stanley and six directors from Black & Decker.  Black & Decker shall name its directors, subject to approval by the Stanley Board or the Corporate Governance Committee thereof.  Of the independent directors from Stanley, one shall be appointed the lead independent director of the Stanley Board.  The directors from Black & Decker will be allocated, as evenly as possible, among the three classes of the Stanley Board.  At the first Stanley shareholder meeting after the Effective Time at which directors are elected, Stanley shall cause the directors from Black & Decker to be nominated for election by the shareholders of Stanley.
 
(b)  Stanley shall take all necessary action to cause, effective at the Effective Time, Nolan D. Archibald to be elected as Executive Chairman of the Stanley Board.  In such capacity, Nolan D. Archibald shall report directly to the Stanley Board.
 
(c)  Stanley shall take all action necessary to ensure that John F. Lundgren remains the Chief Executive Officer of Stanley at the Effective Time.  In such capacity, John F. Lundgren shall report directly to the Stanley Board.
 
(d)  Following the Effective Time, Stanley intends that it will have its headquarters located in New Britain, Connecticut and will have a substantial operating presence in Towson, Maryland.
 
(e)  At the Effective Time, the name of Stanley shall become Stanley Black & Decker.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
SECOND RESTATEMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the ) by and between The Stanley Works , a Connecticut corporation (the ), and John F. Lundgren (the ), dated November 2, 2009 (the ) and effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in Section 1 below).
Agreement
Company
Executive
Execution Date
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company, Blue Jay Acquisition Corp. () and The Black & Decker Corporation, a Maryland corporation (), propose to enter into a merger agreement, dated as of the date hereof (the ), whereby, subject to the satisfaction of the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, Black & Decker will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company upon consummation of the Merger (as defined in the Merger Agreement);
Merger Sub
Black & Decker
Merger Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated December 10, 2008 (the ) pursuant to which the Executive agreed to continue to provide service to the Company and the Company agreed to continue to provide certain compensation and benefits to the Executive;
Prior Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive entered into an Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement dated December 10, 2008, which remains in full force and effect; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive mutually desire to amend and completely restate the Prior Agreement, which will replace and supersede the Prior Agreement as of the Closing (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and pursuant to which the Executive will continue to provide services to the Company from and after the Closing in exchange for certain compensation and benefits as provided in this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
 
1.             .
EFFECTIVENESS; TERM
 
(a)           This Agreement shall become effective upon the Closing (the date of the Closing, the ).  If the Merger Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms prior to the consummation of the Merger or if the Executive is not continuously employed by the Company under the terms of the Prior Agreement from the Execution Date to the Closing, this Agreement shall be null and void ab initio and of no further force or effect and the Prior Agreement shall remain in effect.
Effective Date
 
(b)           Subject to Section 1(a), the term of employment of the Executive by the Company hereunder (the ), commenced on March 1, 2004 and shall continue until the occurrence of a Date of Termination (as defined in Section 4 below).
Term
 
 
 
 
2.             .
POSITION AND DUTIES; LOCATION
 
(a)           During the Term, the Executive shall serve as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company with such duties and responsibilities as are customarily assigned to such positions, and such other duties and responsibilities commensurate therewith as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors of the Company (the ), which shall include (i) the responsibility to determine, jointly with the lead independent director of the Board and the executive chairman of the Board, the times and agendas of meetings of the Board and (ii) service as the Co-Chair, along with the executive chairman of the Board, of the Integration Steering Committee of the Company, which committee will be responsible for monitoring the status of integration of the Company and Black & Decker and providing direction with respect thereto.  The Executive shall report solely to the Board.  At the Companys request, upon termination of the Executives employment with the Company for any reason, the Executive shall (1) promptly resign from the Board and from all other positions the Executive then holds as an officer or member of the board of directors of any of the Companys subsidiaries or affiliates and (2) execute any and all documentation of such resignations.
Board
 
(b)           During the Term, the Executive shall devote his full business time and effort to the performance of his duties hereunder.  It shall not be considered a violation of the foregoing for the Executive to manage his personal investments or, subject to the approval of the Board, to serve on corporate, industry, civic or charitable boards or committees, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executives duties hereunder.
 
(c)           During the Term, the Executive shall be based at the Companys principal headquarters in New Britain, Connecticut, except for travel reasonably required for the performance of the Executives duties hereunder.
 
3.             .
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
 
(a)           .  As of the Effective Date, the Executives annual base salary will be $1,250,000.  The Annual Base Salary (as defined below) shall be payable in accordance with the Companys regular payroll practice for its senior executives, as in effect from time to time.  During the Term, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed at least annually by the Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board (the ) for possible increase.  Any increase in the Annual Base Salary shall not limit or reduce any other obligation of the Company under this Agreement.  Once increased, the Annual Base Salary shall not thereafter be decreased, except pursuant to across-the-board salary reductions similarly affecting all senior Company executives.  The term  shall refer to the Annual Base Salary as in effect from time to time.
BASE SALARY
C&O Committee
Annual Base Salary
 
(b)           .  For each fiscal year of the Company during the Term, the Executive shall participate in the Companys Management Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended, or any successor plan thereto (the ).  As of the Effective Date, the Executives annual target bonus opportunity pursuant to the MICP shall equal 150% (the ) of the Annual Base Salary in effect for the Executive at the beginning of such fiscal year (or, in the case of the 2010 fiscal year, as in effect immediately following the Effective Date), with a threshold potential award equal to 75% of such Annual Base Salary and a maximum potential award equal to 300% of such Annual Base Salary.  Any cash bonuses payable to the Executive will be paid at the time the Company normally pays such bonuses to its senior executives in accordance with the terms of the MICP, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which such cash bonuses are earned and vested.
ANNUAL CASH BONUS
MICP
Target Annual Bonus Percentage
 
 
2
 
 
(c)           
EQUITY AWARDS
 
(i)           .  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Company shall grant to the Executive restricted stock units (the ), which number of Merger RSUs shall be determined by the Board such that the aggregate value of the shares of Company common stock underlying such Merger RSUs shall be equal to the value, as of the Closing, of an option to purchase 1,100,000 shares of Company common stock (based on the full grant date value as determined for purposes of the Companys financial reporting and assuming such options have a 10-year term and other terms and conditions consistent with the most recent option awards made to the Executive).  The Merger RSUs shall be granted under, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Companys 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan or a successor thereto (the ).  The Merger RSUs shall vest and be settled 50% on the fourth anniversary of the Closing and 50% on the fifth anniversary of the Closing.   In addition, the Merger RSUs shall become immediately and fully vested and settled in the event (i) the Company terminates the Executives employment other than for Cause (as defined below), (ii) the Executives employment is terminated by the Executive for Good Reason (as defined below) or (iii) of the Executives Retirement (as defined below); that, in any such case, such settlement shall occur on the date of the Executives separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ), and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, )).  The Merger RSUs shall accrue dividends and distributions paid on shares of Company common stock in accordance with the Companys customary practices.  Except as described above, the Merger RSUs shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Companys customary award agreement.
MERGER EQUITY GRANT
Merger RSUs
Company Stock Plan
provided
Code
Section 409A
 
(ii)           .  For each fiscal year of the Company during the Term, the Executive shall be eligible to receive (a) annual performance awards with a target annual value (based on the full grant date value as determined for purposes of the Companys financial reporting) equal to 300% of the Annual Base Salary in effect for the Executive at the beginning of such fiscal year (the ), with a threshold potential annual performance award equal to 150% of such Annual Base Salary and a maximum potential annual performance award equal to 500% of such Annual Base Salary, and (b) annual awards of options to purchase 150,000 shares of Company common stock (the  and, collectively with the Annual Performance Awards, the ).  The Annual LTIP Awards shall be granted under, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Company Stock Plan, and shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Companys customary award agreements, including with respect to vesting and exercisability of stock options (if any) after termination of employment; that none of such Annual LTIP Awards shall constitute deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION
Annual Performance Awards
Annual Options
Annual LTIP Awards
provided
 
 
3
 
 
(d)           .  While the Executive is employed during the Term:  (i) the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all tax-qualified and non-qualified savings, employee stock ownership, employee stock purchase, deferred compensation and retirement and supplemental retirement plans that are generally made available to the Companys senior officers, and shall be entitled to participate in all fringe benefit and perquisite practices, policies and programs of the Company made available to the senior officers of the Company, including but not limited to the Companys executive car program, financial planning services, executive life insurance program, executive long-term disability program and executive physical program (provided that in each case, such participation shall be no less favorable than that available to senior officers of the Company); and (ii) the Executive and/or the Executives eligible dependents, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in, and shall receive all benefits under, all welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company, including, any medical (with COBRA equivalent premiums paid on a gross-up basis during any waiting period that is not waived), flexible spending, prescription, dental, short- and long-term disability, employee life insurance, group life insurance, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs to the same extent, and subject to the same terms and conditions, as are made available to the senior officers of the Company.
OTHER BENEFITS
 
(c)           .  The Executive shall be entitled to four (4) weeks paid vacation per year.
VACATION
 
(e)           .  The Company shall pay or reimburse the Executive for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Executive during the Term in the performance of the Executives services under this Agreement, in accordance with Company policy for its senior executives and subject to the Reimbursement Rules (as defined in Section 4(e) below).
EXPENSES
 
(f)           .  On December 10, 2008, the Executive and the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Change in Control Severance Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT
 
(g)           .  The Company shall provide the Executive with a supplemental retirement benefit to make the Executive whole for the retirement benefits he would reasonably expect to receive from Executives prior employer (the ) had he continued his employment with the Prior Employer (the ).  Such benefit will be calculated based on the Executives compensation from the Prior Employer, for 2003, projected forward at an assumed rate of increase of 5% per year during his employment with the Company.  The Pension Make-Whole benefit shall be calculated and paid, as provided in Exhibit A attached hereto, subject to the offsets described in said Exhibit A.
PENSION MAKE-WHOLE
Prior Employer
Pension Make-Whole
 
 
4
 
 
(h)           .  To the fullest extent permitted by the Companys certificate of incorporation and by-laws, or, if greater, by the laws of the State of Connecticut, the Company shall promptly indemnify and hold harmless the Executive for all amounts (including, without limitation, judgments, fines, settlement payments, losses, damages, costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees), ERISA excise taxes, or other liabilities or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) incurred or paid by the Executive in connection with any action, proceeding, suit or investigation (the ) to which the Executive is made a party, or is threatened to be made a party, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, programs or arrangements, whether or not the basis of such Proceeding is the Executives alleged action in an official capacity.  Such indemnification shall continue even if the Executive has ceased to be a director, employee or agent of the Company or other affiliated entity and shall inure to the benefit of the Executives heirs, executors and administrators.  The Company shall advance to the Executive all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by him in connection with a Proceeding within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt by the Company of a written request from the Executive for such advance.  Such request shall include an undertaking by the Executive to timely repay the amount of such advance if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified against such costs and expenses.  The Company also agrees to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy covering the Executive to the extent the Company provides such coverage for its other senior executive officers.  Following the Term, the Company shall continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy for the benefit of the Executive which is no less favorable than the policy covering other senior officers of the Company.
INDEMNIFICATION
Proceeding
 
(i)           .  The Company shall ensure that the Executive and his eligible dependents shall have access to retiree medical insurance coverage from a reputable carrier until the Executive shall first become eligible for Medicare (or in the event of his death, until he would have first become eligible).  Such coverage shall be on terms and conditions no less favorable than generally made available to other Company retirees (or if there are no other such retirees, on terms and conditions no less favorable than in effect immediately prior to Date of Termination).  The cost of such coverage shall be borne solely by the Executive (or in the event of his death, his eligible dependents), except to the extent that the Company generally bears such costs for its senior executives, in which case, such payment or reimbursement by the Company shall be subject to the Reimbursement Rules, if applicable.
RETIREE MEDICAL
 
4.             .
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
 
(a)           .  The Executives employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executives death during the Term.  The Company shall be entitled to terminate the Executives employment because of the Executives Disability during the Term.   means that the Executive is disabled within the meaning of the Companys long-term disability policy for salaried employees (or any successor thereto) or, if there is no such policy in effect, that (i) the Executive has been substantially unable, for 120 business days within a period of 180 consecutive business days, to perform the Executives duties under this Agreement, as a result of physical or mental illness or injury, and (ii) a physician selected by the Company and the Executive or the Executives legal representative has determined that the Executive is totally and permanently disabled.  In the event that the Executive and the Company cannot agree as to a physician to make such a determination, each shall appoint a physician and those two (2) physicians shall select a third who shall make such determination in writing.  A termination of the Executives employment by the Company for Disability shall be communicated to the Executive by written notice, and shall be effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the ), unless the Executive returns to full-time performance of the Executives duties before the Disability Effective Time.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that as a result of absence because of mental or physical incapacity the Executive incurs a separation from service within the meaning of such term under Section 409A, the Executive shall on such date automatically be terminated from employment because of Disability.
DEATH OR DISABILITY
Disability
Disability Effective Time
 
 
5
 
 
(b)           .  The Company may terminate the Executives employment during the Term for Cause or without Cause.
TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY
 
(i)         is defined as (A) the Executives willful and continued failure to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from his incapacity due to physical or mental illness) that has not been cured within thirty (30) calendar days after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that the Executive has not substantially performed his duties, (B) the willful engaging by the Executive in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or its affiliates, (C) the Executives conviction of (or plea of nolo contendere to) any felony or any other crime involving dishonesty, fraud or moral turpitude, (D) any violation of the Companys policies relating to compliance with applicable laws that has a material adverse effect on the Company or its affiliates or (E) the Executives breach of any restrictive covenant set forth in Section 8 hereof.  For purposes of clauses (A) and (B) of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on the Executives part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company.
Cause
 
(ii)        A termination of the Executives employment for Cause or without Cause shall not be effective unless it is accomplished in accordance with the following procedures.  The Board shall give the Executive written notice () of its intention to terminate the Executives employment, which shall (A) in the case of termination for Cause, set forth in detail the specific conduct (including any failure to act) of the Executive that it considers to constitute Cause and (B) propose the date, time and place (which, in each case, shall be subject to the Executives approval; provided that such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) of the Special Board Meeting for Termination.  The  means a meeting of the Board called and held specifically and exclusively for the purpose of considering the Executives termination of employment, that takes place not less than forty-five (45) business days after the Executive receives the Notice of Termination by the Board.  The Board shall provide the Executive an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard at the Special Board Meeting for Termination.  The Executives termination of employment shall be effective when and if a resolution is duly adopted at the Special Board Meeting for Termination stating that, in the good faith opinion of at least 80% of the members of the Board (other than the Executive), the Executives employment should be terminated and, in the case of a termination for Cause, that such conduct constitutes Cause under this Agreement; , , that, following the expiration of the Black & Decker Agreement (as defined below), any such resolution may be adopted by a majority (rather than 80%) of the members of the Board (other than the Executive).
Notice of Termination by the Board
Special Board Meeting for Termination
provided
however
 
 
6
 
 
(c)           .  The Executive may terminate employment for Good Reason or without Good Reason.
GOOD REASON
 
(i)         is defined as, without the Executives consent, (A) the assignment to the Executive of any duties inconsistent with his status as the Companys Chief Executive Officer or a material adverse alteration in the nature or status of the Executives responsibilities, unless the Company has cured such events within ten (10) business days after the receipt of written notice thereof from the Executive, (B) a reduction in the Executives Annual Base Salary or Target Annual Bonus Percentage, except for across-the-board salary reductions similarly affecting all senior Company executives, (C) the relocation of the Companys headquarters to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from the location of such headquarters on the Effective Date, (D) the failure of the Executive to be elected or re-elected as a member of the Board, or (E) the Companys election not to renew the Change in Control Severance Agreement.  For the avoidance of doubt, Good Reason does not exist for purposes of the Prior Agreement or this Agreement as a result of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or the transactions and arrangements contemplated by the agreement between the Company and the Chief Executive Officer of Black & Decker, dated the date hereof (the ), including, without limitation, the Executives ceasing to be Chairman of the Board.
Good Reason
Black & Decker Agreement
 
(ii)         A termination of employment by the Executive for Good Reason shall be effectuated by giving the Company written notice () of the termination, setting forth in reasonable detail the specific conduct of the Company that constitutes Good Reason; provided, however, that no termination by the Executive shall be treated as a termination for Good Reason unless the Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given within forty-five (45) business days following the date the Executive first has knowledge of the event or circumstance alleged to constitute Good Reason.  A termination of employment by the Executive for Good Reason shall be effective fifteen (15) business days following the date when the Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given, unless the event or circumstance constituting Good Reason is remedied by the Company in accordance with the foregoing.
Notice of Termination for Good Reason
 
(iii)        A termination of the Executives employment by the Executive without Good Reason shall be effected by giving the Company thirty (30) calendar days advance written notice of the termination.
 
(iv)        Without limiting the foregoing,  shall mean the Executives termination of his employment for any reason after the Effective Date.
Retirement
 
(d)           .  The  means the date of the Executives death, the Disability Effective Time or the date on which the termination of the Executives employment by the Company for Cause or without Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason or without Good Reason is effective.  A termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred for purposes of any provision of this Agreement providing for the payment of any amounts or benefits subject to Section 409A upon or following a termination of employment unless such termination is also a  (within the meaning of Section 409A).
DATE OF TERMINATION
Date of Termination
separation from service
 
 
7
 
 
(e)           .  The  means the requirement that any amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement under this Agreement be made (i) in accordance with the reimbursement payment date set forth in the applicable provision of this Agreement providing for the reimbursement or (ii) where the applicable provision does not provide for a reimbursement date, thirty (30) calendar days following the date on which the Executive incurs the expenses, but, in each case, no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the Executive incurs the related expenses; provided, that in no event shall the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor shall the Executives right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
REIMBURSEMENT RULES
Reimbursement Rules
 
5.           .
OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY UPON TERMINATION
 
(a)           .  If the Executives employment hereunder terminates for any reason, then (1) the Company shall pay to the Executive, or his estate, beneficiary or legal representative, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within ten (10) business days after the Date of Termination, (i) any portion of the Executives Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination that has not yet been paid, (ii) any earned annual bonus that has not been paid (or previously deferred) for any previous fiscal year, and (iii) any amount needed to reimburse the Executive for any unreimbursed business expenses properly incurred by the Executive in accordance with Company policy prior to the Date of Termination and subject to the Reimbursement Rules, (2) the Company shall also pay or provide to the Executive (or the Executives estate, beneficiary, or legal representative, as the case may be) all compensation and benefits payable to the Executive under the terms of the Companys compensation and benefit plans, programs or arrangements as in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination, in accordance with the terms of such plans, programs or arrangements, and (3) except as otherwise set forth below in Section 5(c), all of the Executives then outstanding equity and incentive compensation awards shall be treated in accordance with the terms of the plans and agreements evidencing such awards.  Subject to Section 3(i) hereof, the Company shall also provide the Executive and/or his eligible dependents with access to retiree medical coverage.
OBLIGATIONS ON ANY TERMINATION
 
(b)           .  If the Executives employment hereunder terminates by reason of death or Disability, then the Company, in addition to making the payments and benefits in Section 5(a), shall pay to the Executive, or his estate, beneficiary or legal representative, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) business days following the Date of Termination, a pro-rata portion of the Executives Target Annual Bonus Percentage of Annual Base Salary for the Companys fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (the ).  The Pro-Rata Bonus shall be calculated by multiplying the Target Annual Bonus Percentage of Annual Base Salary by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the Companys fiscal year that have elapsed to the Date of Termination and the denominator of which is the number of days in such fiscal year.
OBLIGATIONS ON A TERMINATION DUE TO DEATH OR DISABILITY
Pro-Rata Bonus
 
 
8
 
 
(c)           .
OTHER THAN FOR CAUSE, DISABILITY, OR DEATH, OR FOR GOOD REASON
 
(i)          If, during the Term, the Company terminates the Executives employment for any reason other than for Cause, death or Disability, or the Executive terminates his employment for Good Reason, then, in addition to making the payments and providing the benefits pursuant to Section 5(a), subject to Section 5(c)(ii) and Section 5(e), (1) on the sixtieth (60) day following the Date of Termination, the Company shall pay to the Executive a lump sum in cash equal to two times the sum of (i) the Executives Annual Base Salary immediately prior to the Date of Termination plus (ii) the Executives Target Annual Bonus Percentage of Annual Base Salary for the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (); (2) the Executive shall be entitled to immediate vesting of any Merger RSUs outstanding as of the Date of Termination in accordance with Section 3(c)(i); (3) the Company shall provide or arrange to provide the Executive and his eligible dependents, at no greater cost to the Executive than the cost to the Executive immediately prior to the Date of Termination, life, disability, accident and health insurance benefits (the ) no less favorable than those provided to the Executive and his eligible dependents immediately prior to the Date of Termination for twenty-four (24) months following the Date of Termination (the ), or, if sooner, until he becomes eligible for such benefits from a new employer (and the Executive shall promptly notify the Company of such eligibility from any new employer), but only to the extent that the Executive makes a payment to the Company in an amount equal to the monthly premium payments (both the employee and employer portion) required to maintain such coverage on the first day of each calendar month commencing with the first calendar month following the Date of Termination and the Company shall reimburse the Executive on an after-tax basis for the amount of such premiums, if any, in excess of any employee contributions necessary to maintain such coverage for the Continuation Period and such reimbursement shall comply with the Reimbursement Rules; and (4) the Company shall pay the Executive, on sixtieth (60th) day following the Date of Termination, the Pro-Rata Bonus.
th
Cash Severance
Health and Welfare Benefits
Continuation Period
 
(ii)         In the event that, during the Continuation Period, the Executive shall, without the written consent of the Board, directly or indirectly, as employee, agent, consultant, stockholder, director, manager, co-partner or in any other individual or representative capacity, own, operate, manage, control, engage in, invest in or participate in any manner in, act as consultant or advisor to, render services for (alone or in association with any person, firm, corporation or entity), or otherwise assist any person or entity (other than the Company) that engages in or owns, invests in, operates, manages or controls any venture or enterprise that directly or indirectly engages or proposes to engage in any Competitive Business (as defined below), then the Companys obligations to make any further payments or provide any further benefits under this Section 5(c) shall immediately terminate.   shall mean any line of business that is substantially the same as any line of any operating business which on the Date of Termination the Company was engaged in or conducting and which during the Companys preceding fiscal constituted at least 5% of the gross sales of the Company and its subsidiaries.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive may become a partner or employee of, or otherwise acquire an interest in, a stock or business brokerage firm, consulting or advisory firm, investment banking firm or similar organization which, as part of its business, trades or invests in securities of Competitive Businesses or which represents or acts as agent or advisor for Competitive Businesses, but only on condition that the Executive shall not personally render any services in connection with such Competitive Business either directly to such Competitive Business or other persons or to the Executives firm in connection therewith.
Competitive Business
 
 
9
 
 
(d)           .
SECTION 409A
 
(i)          Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, if the Executive is a  (within the meaning of Section 409A  and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company) at the time of his separation from service and if any portion of the payments or benefits to be received by the Executive upon separation from service would be considered deferred compensation under Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Executives separation from service (the ) and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement (the ) during the six-month period immediately following the Executives separation from service (such period, the ) shall instead be paid or made available on the earlier of (i) the first business day of the seventh month following the date of the Executives separation from service or (ii) Executives death (the applicable date, the ).  The Company shall also reimburse the Executive for the after-tax cost incurred by the Executive in independently obtaining any Delayed Benefits (the ).
specified employee
Delayed Payments
Delayed Benefits
Delay Period
Permissible Payment Date
Additional Delayed Payments
 
(ii)        With respect to any amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement under Section 5(a)(1)(iii), such expenses shall be reimbursed by the Company within thirty (30) calendar days following the date on which the Company receives the applicable invoice from the Executive but in no event later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the Executive incurs the related expenses; provided, that with respect to reimbursement relating to the Additional Delayed Payments, such reimbursement shall be made on the Permissible Payment Date.  In no event shall the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor shall the Executives right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
 
(iii)        Each payment under this Agreement shall be considered a separate payment and not of a series of payments for purposes of Section 409A.
 
(iv)        Any Delayed Payments shall bear interest at the United States 5-year Treasury Rate plus 2%, which accumulated interest shall be paid to the Executive on the Permissible Payment Date.
 
(e)           .  As a condition of receiving any payments for which the Executive otherwise qualifies under Section 5(c)(i), the Executive shall be required to execute, deliver and not revoke, within sixty (60) calendar days following the Executives separation from service, the mutual release attached hereto as Exhibit B (the ), such Release to be delivered by the Executive no later than sixty (60) calendar days following the Executives separation from service.  If the Release has not been executed, delivered and become irrevocable by the Executive within the statutory revocation period, all payments under Section 5(c)(i) shall be forfeited.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company does not execute and deliver the Release to the Executive within two (2) business days following the Executives delivery of the Release to the Company, then any requirement for the Executive to execute, deliver and not revoke the Release as a condition of receiving any payments under Section 5(c)(i) will have no effect, and the Executive shall be entitled to receive any payments to which the Executive otherwise qualifies under Section 5(c)(i).
EXECUTION OF RELEASE
Release
 
 
10
 
 
6.             .  Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executives continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies for which the Executive may qualify nor shall anything in this Agreement limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its affiliated companies.  Vested benefits and other amounts that the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract of agreement with, the Company or any of its affiliated companies on or after the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with the terms of each such plan, policy, practice, program, contract or agreement, as the case may be, except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS
 
7.             .  Except as provided herein, the Companys obligation to make the payments provided for in, and otherwise to perform its obligations under, this Agreement shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action that the Company may have against the Executive or others.  In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action to mitigate the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced, regardless of whether the Executive obtains other employment.
FULL SETTLEMENT
 
8.             .
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; SOLICITATION
 
(a)           The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company any and all information of the Company and its subsidiaries that is not generally known by others with whom they compete or do business, or with whom they plan to compete or do business and any and all information not readily available to the public, which, if disclosed by the Company or its subsidiaries could reasonably be of benefit to such person or business in competing with or doing business with the Company ().  Confidential Information includes, without limitation, such information relating to the (i) development, research, testing, manufacturing, store operational processes, marketing and financial activities, including costs, profits and sales, of the Company and its subsidiaries, (ii) products and all formulas therefor, (iii) costs, sources of supply, financial performance and strategic plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, (iv) identity and special needs of the customers and suppliers of the Company and its subsidiaries and (v) people and organizations with whom the Company and its subsidiaries have business relationships and those relationships.  Confidential Information also includes comparable information that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have received belonging to others or which was received by the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to an agreement by the Company that it would not be disclosed.  Confidential Information does not include information which (A) is or becomes available to the public generally (other than as a result of the Executives unauthorized disclosure), (B) was within the Executives possession prior to the date hereof or prior to its being furnished to the Executive by or on behalf of the Company, provided that the source of such information was not bound by a confidentiality agreement with or other contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation of confidentiality to the Company or any other party with respect to such information, (C) becomes available to the Executive on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Company or its subsidiaries, provided that such source is not bound by a confidentiality agreement with or other contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation of confidentiality to the Company or any other party with respect to such information, (D) was independently developed the Executive without reference to the Confidential Information or (E) is required by law to be disclosed.  The Executive shall promptly return to the Company upon the Date of Termination or at any other time the Company may so request, all notes, records, documents, files and memoranda (including in electronic format and all copies of such materials) constituting Confidential Information he may then possess or have under his control; provided, however, that he may retain his personal correspondence, diaries and other items of a personal nature.
Confidential Information
 
 
11
 
 
(b)           For a period of two (2) years after the Date of Termination, the Executive shall not, without the written consent of the Board, directly or indirectly, (i) hire any person who was employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (other than persons employed in a clerical or other non-professional position) within the six (6) month period preceding the date of such hiring; or (ii) solicit, entice, persuade or induce (in each case, other than pursuant to non-targeted, general advertisements) any person or entity doing business with the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates, to terminate such relationship or to refrain from extending or renewing the same.
 
(c)           The Executive agrees that, in addition to any other remedies available to the Company, the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief in the event of any actual or threatened breach of this Section 8 without the necessity of posting any bond, it being acknowledged and agreed that any breach or threatened breach of this Section 8 hereof will cause irreparable injury to the Company and that money damages alone will not provide an adequate remedy to the Company.
 
9.             .  Except for the Companys right to seek injunctive relief as set forth in Section 8(c), all disputes arising under, related to, or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled by expedited arbitration conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators sitting in Hartford, Connecticut, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The decision of the arbitrators in that proceeding shall be binding on the Company and the Executive.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrators in any court having jurisdiction.  Each party shall bear its own costs and expenses (including legal fees) in connection with any arbitration proceeding instituted hereunder; provided, however, that if the Executive prevails in the arbitration, his costs and expenses shall be promptly reimbursed by the Company.  The reimbursement provided for in this Section 9 shall be made as soon as practicable following the resolution of such contest or dispute (whether or not appealed) to the extent the Company received reasonable written evidence of such fees and expenses, but in any event no later than within thirty (30) calendar days following the date on which such consent or dispute (whether or not appealed) is resolved.
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
 
10.           .  This Agreement is personal to the Executive and, without the prior written consent of the Company, shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executives legal representatives.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors.  In addition to any obligations imposed by law upon any successor to the Company, the Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession and benefits had taken place.  Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle the Executive to compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as the Executive would be entitled to hereunder if the Executive were to terminate the Executives employment for Good Reason.
ASSIGNMENT; SUCCESSORS
 
11.           .  As a material inducement to the Companys willingness to enter into this Agreement, the Executive represents to the Company that neither the execution of this Agreement by the Executive, the employment of the Executive by the Company nor the performance by the Executive of his duties hereunder will constitute a violation by the Executive of any employment, non-competition or other agreement to which the Executive is a party.  The Company represents and warrants that it is fully authorized and empowered to enter into this Agreement (and those contemplated hereby) and that the performance of its obligations under this Agreement will not violate any agreement between it and any other person, firm or organization.
NO VIOLATIONS
 
 
12
 
 
12.           .
MISCELLANEOUS
 
(a)           .  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Connecticut, without reference to principles of conflict of laws.  The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
GOVERNING LAW
 
(b)           .  All notices and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
NOTICES
 
If to the Executive:
 
At his address on file with the Company
 
If to the Company:
 
The Stanley Works
1000 Stanley Drive
New Britain, Connecticut 06053
Facsimile:  860-827-3911
Attention:  Bruce H. Beatt, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
With a copy to:
 
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
Worldwide Plaza
825 Eighth Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Attention:  Eric W. Hilfers, Esq.
 
or to such other address as either party furnishes to the other in writing in accordance with this paragraph (b) of Section 12.  Notices and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
 
13
 
 
(c)           .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in part, the remaining portion of such provision, together with all other provisions of this Agreement, shall remain valid and enforceable and continue in full force and effect to the fullest extent consistent with law.
SEVERABILITY
 
(d)           .  The Company shall pay directly or reimburse the Executive for legal fees and expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation and preparation of the changes to this Agreement; provided, however, that such payment or reimbursement obligation shall not exceed $10,000 in the aggregate.  Such payment or reimbursement by the Company shall be subject to the Reimbursement Rules.
LEGAL FEES
 
(e)           .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company may withhold from amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, local and foreign taxes that are required to be withheld by applicable laws or regulations.
WITHHOLDING
 
(f)           .  The Executives or the Companys failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provisions of, or to assert any right under, this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or of any other provision of or right under this Agreement.
WAIVER
 
(g)           .  The Executive and the Company acknowledge that this Agreement (together with the Exhibits hereto) constitutes the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede any other prior agreement or other understanding, whether oral or written, express or implied, between them concerning, related to or otherwise in connection with, the subject matter hereof and that, following the date hereof, no such agreement or understanding shall be of any further force or effect.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
 
(h)           .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A.  This Agreement shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention.  The subject matter of this Agreement involves complex and substantial tax considerations.  The Executive acknowledges that he has been afforded adequate opportunity to consult and that he has consulted with his own tax adviser with respect to this Agreement.  The Company makes no warranties or representations whatsoever to the Executive regarding the tax consequences of any item of compensation subject to this Agreement and which is paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
SECTION 409A
 
 
14
 
 
(i)           .  To the extent necessary to effectuate the terms of this Agreement, terms of this Agreement which must survive the termination of the Executives employment or the termination of this Agreement shall so survive.
SURVIVAL OF TERMS
 
(j)           .  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and said counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
COUNTERPARTS
 
(k)           .  This Agreement and the provisions contained in it shall not be construed or interpreted for or against any party to this Agreement because that party drafted or caused that partys legal representative to draft any of its provisions.
EACH PARTY THE DRAFTER
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executives hand and, pursuant to the authorization of its Board, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written, to become effective as of the Execution Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
Pension Make-Whole Benefit
1.           
 
(a)          .  The Pension Make-Whole benefit for the Executive, expressed as a single life annuity, payable monthly, beginning on the first day of the month following his attainment of age 62, will be:
Pension Make-Whole Benefit Formula
 
(i)           50% of the Executives Average Monthly Cash Salary determined at his Separation from Service, reduced by (ii), (iii) and (iv), as follows:
 
(ii)          $10,281.00;
 
(iii)         the monthly benefit, determined pursuant to a single life annuity, calculated in accordance with Appendix A, with respect to Executives vested account balance in the Stanley Account Value Plan (Account Value Plan) attributable to nonelective allocations, excluding matching allocations, and with respect to his vested account balance under the Supplemental Retirement and Account Value Plan for Salaried Employees of The Stanley Works (the Supplemental Plan) attributable to nonelective defined contribution allocations, including matching allocations; and
 
(iv)        the monthly benefit payable in a single life annuity under The Stanley Works Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (the SERP).
 
The Executives Average Monthly Cash Salary is $1,037,192, representing his annual cash salary, for 2003, increased at the rate of 5% per year for each year of the Executives employment with the Company, and averaged, on a monthly basis, over the 48 full consecutive calendar months immediately preceding the Executives Separation from Service.
 
If the benefit is not paid in a life annuity but, instead, is paid in a different optional form that is made available, the offsets described in (iii) and (iv) above shall not be applied to the life annuity benefit (with respect to which an actuarially adjusted optional form of benefit payment is calculated).  Instead, the actuarially adjusted optional form of benefit payment that is calculated under Section 3(c) (with respect to the life annuity benefit determined under Section 1(a)(i), after any reductions required pursuant to Section 1(a)(ii)) shall be reduced, pursuant to Section I of Appendix A, by the actuarial equivalent of the benefits described in (iii) and (iv) above.
 
(b)          .  If the Executives benefit commencement date precedes the first day of the month following his attainment of age 62, the Executives Pension Make-Whole benefit, expressed as a single life annuity, is determined by reducing the amount described in Section 1(a)(i) (without regard to Sections 1(a)(ii), 1(a)(iii) and 1(a)(iv)) by .334% for each month (4% per year) that the Executives benefit commencement date precedes the first day of the month following his attainment of age 62 and then offsetting that reduced amount by the amount described in Section 1(a)(iii), applied as of such benefit commencement date pursuant to Appendix A, and the amount described in Section 1(a)(iv), also applied as of the benefit commencement date, and, in addition, offsetting such reduced amount by the amount described in Section 1(a)(ii), applied pursuant to Appendix A, with respect to payments scheduled to be made on or after October 1, 2013.  If the Executives benefit commencement date precedes the first day of the month following his attainment of age 62 and the Executives benefit is not paid in a life annuity but instead is paid in a different optional form that is made available, the offsets described in Sections 1(a)(iii) and 1(a)(iv) shall not be applied to the life annuity benefit (with respect to which an actuarially adjusted optional form of payment is calculated).  The actuarially adjusted optional form of payment that is calculated under Section 3(c) with respect to the single life annuity determined under the first sentence in this Section 1(b), subject to offset after October 1, 2013, pursuant to Section 1(a)(ii), will be offset by the actuarial equivalent of the amounts described in Sections 1(a)(iii) and 1(a)(iv), as of the benefit commencement date pursuant to Section I of Appendix A.  Examples of these calculations are set forth in Appendix B.
Discount for Benefit Commencement before Age 62
 
 
 
 
(c)           .  For purposes of the Pension Make-Whole benefit, the Executives Separation from Service will occur upon his termination of employment with all members of the Companys controlled group, for a reason other than death.  There is a Separation from Service as of a particular date, if the Company and the Executive reasonably anticipated that, as of that date, the Executive would provide no further services to the controlled group as a common law employee or as an independent contractor or that the Executive would provide services for the controlled group as a common law employee or as an independent contractor at an annual rate that is not more than 20% of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding 36 consecutive months of service.  While the Executive is on a bona fide leave of absence, the Executives employment relationship shall be treated as continuing, provided that the Executive is expected to return to work for the Company or another member of the controlled group and the period of such leave of absence does not exceed six months, or if the period is longer, the Executive has a right to reemployment with the Company or another member of the controlled group either by statute or by contract.  If the period of a leave of absence exceeds six months and there is no right to reemployment, a termination of employment shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first date immediately following the first six months of the leave.  For purposes of the Pension Make-Whole, controlled group means the group of corporations or other entities of which the Company is a member, determined under Section 414(b) and Section 414(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, applied by utilizing at least 80 percent each place it appears in Internal Revenue Code Section 1563(a)(1), (2) and (3) and in Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)-2.  For purposes of this Section 1(c), service as a director of a member of the controlled group shall not be taken into account.
Separation from Service
 
Death
2.           
 
(a)          .  If the Executive dies before the benefit commencement date of the Pension Make-Whole benefit, his beneficiary will be entitled to a death benefit that is the lump sum actuarial equivalent of the Pension Make-Whole benefit payable on his behalf under Section 1 at the time of his death, subject to any discount (.334% for each month that the Executives date of death precedes the first day of the month following his 62 birthday).  The actuarial equivalent of this Pension Make-Whole benefit, at the time of the Executives death, shall be paid to the beneficiary in a lump sum, unless the Executive had made a written election by December 31, 2008, or pursuant to Section 3(e), to have the Pension Make-Whole benefit paid to the beneficiary in 120 equal monthly installments or as a life annuity in equal monthly payments, in which case the actuarial equivalent of the Pension Make-Whole benefit shall be paid to the beneficiary in such monthly installments or in such a life annuity, as the case may be.  The death benefit shall be paid or begin to be paid on the first day of the month following the date of the Executives death.
Death Before Benefit Commencement Date
nd
 
 
2
 
 
(b)          .
Death After Benefit Commencement Date
 
(i)           If the Executive dies after his benefit commencement date under Section 3, the benefit, if any, payable following his death depends upon the form of benefit payment that is in effect.  If the Executive dies after benefit payments have commenced under Section 3 pursuant to a joint and 50% survivor annuity or a joint and 100% survivor annuity, monthly survivor benefit payments will be made under the pertinent annuity to the Executives joint annuitant, beginning on the date, following the date of death, on which the next annuity payment would have been made to the Executive if he had survived.  If the Executive dies after monthly installment payments over a period of 120 months have commenced pursuant to Section 3 and prior to receiving 120 payments, payments will continue in the same amount to the Executives beneficiary for the remainder of the 120-month period.  If, upon the death of the Executive after benefit payments have commenced pursuant to a single life annuity, the total annuity payments that were made are less than the actuarial equivalent lump sum payment amount that would have been distributed to the Executive as of the benefit commencement date, a lump sum death benefit, equal to the excess of such lump sum amount over the total annuity payments that were made to the Executive, will be paid to the beneficiary on the first day of the second month following the date of death.  Moreover, if, upon the death of both the Executive and his joint annuitant after benefits have commenced pursuant to a joint and 100% survivor annuity, the total annuity payments that were made are less than the actuarial equivalent lump sum payment amount that would have been distributed to the Executive as of the benefit commencement date, a lump sum death benefit, equal to the excess of such lump sum amount over the total annuity payments that were made, will be paid to the beneficiary on the first day of the second month following the date of death of the last to survive of the Executive and his joint annuitant.
 
(ii)         No payments shall be made following the death of the Executive after his benefit commencement date, except as provided in Section 2(b)(i).
 
(c)           .  Any benefit payable upon the Executives death that is not paid to the joint annuitant pursuant to Section 3(c)(ii) or (iii) will be paid to the beneficiary designated in writing by the Executive, provided that, if no such designated beneficiary survives the Executive, the benefit shall be paid to his surviving spouse or, if there is no surviving spouse, the benefit shall be paid to the Executives estate.  Any benefit payable upon the death of the Executives joint annuitant, after beginning to receive payments under a joint and 100% survivor annuity, will be paid to the beneficiary designated in writing by the joint annuitant, provided that, if no designated beneficiary survives the joint annuitant, the benefit shall be paid to the joint annuitants estate.
Death Beneficiary
 
 
3
 
 
Time and Form of Distribution of Pension Make-Whole Benefit
3.           
 
(a)          .  The benefit to which the Executive is entitled shall be payable following Separation from Service and shall be distributed or commence to be distributed on the later of (i) the first day of the seventh month that begins after the date of the Executives Separation from Service, or (ii) the date of distribution elected by the Executive pursuant to Section 3(b) or 3(e), provided that no distribution is required to be delayed pursuant to this Section 3(a) beyond the date of the Executives death.  If payment is to be delayed beyond the date of Separation from Service pursuant to clause (i) of this Section 3(a), any payment that could not be made to the Executive during the six months following his Separation from Service shall be accumulated and paid to the Executive on the first day of the seventh month that begins after the date of the Executives Separation from Service.  Any such accumulated payment shall be actuarially increased, pursuant to Part IV of Appendix A, to reflect the delay in payment imposed under clause (i) of this Section 3(a).  If the Executive dies between the date of Separation from Service and the date of distribution determined under the first sentence in this Section 3(a), payments shall not be made under this Section 3, but instead shall be made under Section 2(a).
Time of Distribution
 
(b)          .  Subject to Sections 3(a), 3(d) and 3(e), the Executive may make a written election by December 31, 2008, to have the Pension Make-Whole benefit to which he becomes entitled paid at the later of (i) the first day of the seventh month that begins after the date of his Separation from Service, or (ii) a specified date that is not later than the first day of the month following his 62 birthday.  If the Executive fails to make an election with respect to the time of distribution of the benefit to which he becomes entitled under Section 1, the benefit commencement date applicable to such benefit for purposes of Section 1 shall be the date of his Separation from Service, subject to the requirement to defer benefit payments until the first day of the seventh month that begins after his Separation from Service.
Election as to Time of Distribution
nd
 
(c)           .  Subject to Sections 3(d) and 3(e), the Executive may make a written election by December 31, 2008, to have the Pension Make-Whole benefit to which he becomes entitled distributed in one of the following optional forms:
Election as to Form of Distribution
 
(i)          a lump sum payment;
 
(ii)         a joint and 50% survivor annuity with the Executives spouse, pursuant to which equal monthly payments are made to the Executive for his life, and, upon his death, monthly payments equal to 50% of the Executives monthly payment, are made to the surviving spouse, as the joint annuitant, for her life;
 
(iii)        a joint and 100% survivor annuity with the Executives spouse, pursuant to which equal monthly payments are made to the Executive for his life, and, upon his death, to the surviving spouse, as the joint annuitant, for her life;
 
(iv)        payment in a series of 120 equal monthly payments, each of which shall be considered a separate payment, and, if the Executive dies after payments have commenced but before 120 payments have been made, the remaining payments are continued to the beneficiary; or
 
(v)         a life annuity providing equal monthly payments to the Executive for his life.
 
 
 
4
 
If the Executive fails to make a written election by December 31, 2008, regarding the optional form of payment of the Pension Make-Whole benefit to which he becomes entitled, the benefit shall be paid in a lump sum unless a subsequent election of a different form of payment is made under Section 3(e).  An optional form of payment listed in (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above shall be the actuarial equivalent of the single life annuity expressed in Section 1 and the optional form of payment listed in (v) above shall be such single life annuity that is expressed in Section 1.  If annuity payments are made under (iii) or (v) above, a lump sum shall be paid following the distribution of all pertinent annuity amounts to the extent required under the last two sentences in Section 2(b)(i).  For purposes of this Section 3(c), payments made pursuant to an optional form of payment listed in (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above are considered equal monthly payments if the payments would be the same if an offset were not applied, pursuant to Section 1(a)(ii), with respect to a monthly benefit payable on or after October 1, 2013.
 
(d)           .  If the Executive makes an election in 2008 to change the time or form of distribution of a Pension Make-Whole benefit to which he becomes entitled, such new election may not defer to a later year the payment of any amount that would otherwise be payable in 2008 and may not require a payment to be made in 2008 that would otherwise be payable in a later year.
Election Made in 2008 as to Time or Form of Distribution
 
(e)           .  The Executive shall be permitted to make a written election, at any time after December 31, 2008, that changes the time or form of distribution that would otherwise apply, provided that any such election must satisfy all of the following requirements:
Subsequent Elections as to Time or Form of Distribution
 
(i)          the election must be made at least twelve months prior to the date on which the distribution would otherwise have been made;
 
(ii)         the election may not become effective until at least twelve months after the date on which the election is made; and
 
(iii)        except in the case of an election relating to a distribution to be made upon the Executives death, the distribution must be deferred for at least 5 years from the date on which the distribution would otherwise have been made.
 
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, an election by the Executive to change the identity of a beneficiary shall not be treated as a change in the time or form of distribution, provided that the time and form of the distribution are not otherwise changed.  An election to change the time of a distribution to the Executive must not defer the payment of a lump sum, the first scheduled payment of an annuity, or the first scheduled payment under the 120 monthly installment option described in (c)(iv) above to a date that is subsequent to the later of the first day of the month following his attainment of age 62, or the first day of the seventh month following the date of his Separation from Service.
 
 
5
 
 
 
           
I.
For purposes of Sections 1(a) and 1(b), the monthly single life annuity expressed with respect to the vested account balance attributable to nonelective allocations, excluding matching allocations, under the Account Value Plan or the vested, defined contribution nonelective allocations, including vested matching allocations, under the Supplemental Plan shall be calculated as an actuarial equivalent single life annuity payable upon the benefit commencement date of the Pension Make-Whole benefit, determined on the basis of the value of such vested allocations as of the first day of the month that contains the date of the Executives Separation from Service, or, if the benefit commencement date is determined under Section 3(a)(ii), as of the first day of the month that contains the benefit commencement date, increased by the amount of any prior distribution from said vested, nonelective allocations under the Account Value Plan that has not been recontributed to that plan.  This actuarial equivalent monthly single life annuity with respect to such allocations under the Account Value Plan and the Supplemental Plan shall be determined by utilizing the following factors, calculated as of the first day of the month in which Separation from Service occurs or, if the benefit commencement date is determined under Section 3(a)(ii), as of the first day of the month that contains the benefit commencement date:
 
 
 
In the case of a benefit that is paid in an optional form of payment other than a single life annuity, the offset from the benefit attributable to Sections 1(a)(iii) and 1(a)(iv) shall be determined by offsetting the actuarially adjusted optional form of payment (calculated with respect to the single life annuity) by the same form of payment.  If the benefit is paid in an optional form of annuity, an optional form of annuity attributable to the amount under Section 1(a)(iii) shall be calculated by converting such amount under Section 1(a)(iii), determined by utilizing the date that would apply under the preceding provisions of this Section I, to the same optional form of annuity in which the benefit is paid, pursuant to the interest and mortality factors set forth above in this Section I.  In the case of a benefit that is not paid in an annuity, the offset of the benefit attributable to Section 1(a)(iii) shall be determined by offsetting each payment under the actuarially adjusted optional form of payment (calculated with respect to the single life annuity) by the portion of the pertinent amount described in Section 1(a)(iii), valued as of the date set forth in the paragraph above, that corresponds to the portion of the total Pension Make-Whole benefit being distributed pursuant to such payment.  The offset from Section 1(a)(iv) with respect to a benefit paid pursuant to an optional form of payment shall be calculated by converting the single life annuity under Section 1(a)(iv) to the same optional form of payment in which the benefit is paid, determined pursuant to the actuarial factors for early commencement under the SERP and the factors for determining an actuarial equivalent optional form of payment under V, VI or VII of this Appendix A, whichever is applicable.
 
For purposes of this Section I, the value of particular, vested, defined contribution allocations as of the first day of a month, shall be determined on the basis of the last valuation applicable to such allocations under the terms of the pertinent plan on or before such first day of the month.
 
 
 (continued)
APPENDIX A TO EXHIBIT A
 
 
II.          For purposes of Section 1(b), the reduction pursuant to Section 1(a)(ii) with respect to a monthly amount of $10,281.00 shall be applied only in regard to the monthly life annuity payments described in Section 1(a)(i) that are scheduled to be made on or after October 1, 2013.
 
III.         For purposes of Section 2(a), the monthly single life annuity expressed with respect to the vested, nonelective allocations, other than matching allocations, under the Account Value Plan or with respect to the vested, nonelective defined contribution allocations, including vested matching allocations, under the Supplemental Plan shall be calculated pursuant to I above, except that calculations shall be made on the basis of the pertinent values of assets in the Account Value Plan and the Supplemental Plan, as of the first day of the month that contains the date of death, and on the basis of the interest and mortality factors identified in I, as of such first day of the month that contains the date of death.  If the benefit under Section 2(a) is paid in a lump sum or in 120 equal monthly installments, the offset under Section 1(a)(iv) shall be applied as described in I above.
 
IV.         Payments that are delayed pursuant to Section 3(a)(i) shall be adjusted by utilizing the annual interest rate prescribed in Internal Revenue Code Section 417(e) that is in effect for the month of October of the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year that includes the date of Separation from Service.
 
V.          Factors for determining an actuarial equivalent benefit paid as a joint and 50% survivor annuity with the spouse or in 120 equal monthly installments:
 
 
 
VI.         Factors for determining an actuarial equivalent benefit paid as a joint and 100% survivor annuity with the spouse:
 
Joint and 100% Survivor Annuity Factors are as set forth in the attached table, which shows no reduction if the spouse is older than the Executive or if the spouse is no more than two
 
 
 
 
2
 (continued)
APPENDIX A TO EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
VII.        Factor for determining an actuarial equivalent benefit paid in a lump sum:
 
The lump sum payment is determined by multiplying the annual benefit, expressed as a single life annuity, by 9.45, except that, if the lump sum is paid prior to October 1, 2013, the lump sum payment is determined by multiplying the annual benefit, expressed as a single life annuity, payable on or after October 1, 2013, by 9.45, and, adding thereto, $10,281.00 for each month between the date of distribution and October 1, 2013.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
No reduction if spouse is not more than two years younger than participant.  Reduction is .7% for each year the spouse is more than two years younger than the participant.
 
 
 
 
 
Examples to Illustrate Offsets Described in Section 1(b), Assuming Benefit Commences at Age 60
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)  John F. Lundgren (Releasor) for and in consideration of benefits provided pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with The Stanley Works entered into on November 2, 2009 (the Employment Agreement), does for himself and his heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, hereby now and forever, voluntarily, knowingly and willingly release and discharge The Stanley Works and its parents, subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, the Company Group), together with their respective present and former partners, officers, directors, employees and agents, and each of their predecessors, heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns (but as to any partner, officer, director, employee or agent, only in connection with, or in relationship to, his to its capacity as a partner, officer, director, employee or agent of the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates and not in connection with, or in relationship to, his or its personal capacity unrelated to the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates) (collectively, the Company Releasees) from any and all charges, complaints, claims, promises, agreements, controversies, causes of action and demands of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, which against the Company Releasees, jointly or severally, Releasor or Releasors heirs, executors, administrators, successors or assigns ever had or now have by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising from the beginning of time to the time Releasor executes this release arising out of or relating in any way to Releasors employment or director relationship with the Company, or the termination thereof, including but not limited to, any rights or claims arising under any statute or regulation, including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, each as amended, or any other federal, state or local law, regulation, ordinance or common law, or under any policy, agreement, understanding or promise, written or oral, formal or informal, between any Company Releasee and Releasor.  Releasor shall not seek or be entitled to any recovery, in any action or proceeding that may be commenced on Releasors behalf in any way arising out of or relating to the matters released under this Release.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall release any Company Releasee from any claim or damages based on (i) the Releasors rights under the Employment Agreement, (ii) any right or claim that arises after the date the Releasor executes this release, (iii) the Releasors eligibility for indemnification in accordance with applicable laws or the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary) or any applicable insurance policy, with respect to any liability the Releasor incurs or incurred as a director, officer or employee of the Company or any affiliate or subsidiary (including as a trustee, director or officer of any employee benefit plan) or (iv) any right the Releasor may have to obtain contribution as permitted by law in the event of entry of judgment against the Releasor as a result of any act or failure to act for which the Releasor and the Company or any affiliate or subsidiary are held jointly liable.
 
(b)  Releasor has been advised to consult with an attorney of Releasors choice prior to signing this release, has done so and enters into this release freely and voluntarily.
 
(c)  Releasor has had in excess of twenty-one (21) calendar days to consider the terms of this release.  Once Releasor has signed this release, Releasor has seven (7) additional days to revoke Releasors consent and may do so by writing to the Company as provided in Section 12(b) of the Employment Agreement.  Releasors release shall not be effective, and no payments or benefits shall be due under Section 5(c) of the Employment Agreement, until the eighth day after Releasor shall have executed this release (the Revocation Date) and returned it to the Company, assuming that Releasor has not revoked Releasors consent to this release prior to the Revocation Date.
 
 
 
 
(d)  The Company, for and in consideration of the Releasors covenants under the Employment Agreement, on behalf of itself and the other members of the Company Group and any other Company Releasee, their respective successors and assigns, and any and all other persons claiming through any member of the Company Group or such other Company Releasee, and each of them, does hereby now and forever, voluntarily, knowingly and willingly release and discharge, the Releasor and dependents, administrators, agents, executors, successors, assigns, and heirs, from any and all charges, complaints, claims, promises, agreements, controversies, causes of action and demands of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, which against the Releasor, jointly or severally, the Company and each other member of the Company Group or any other Company Releasee, their respective successors and assigns, and any and all other persons claiming through any member of the Company Group or such other Company Releasee ever had or now have by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising from the beginning of time to the time the Company executes this release arising out of or relating to the Releasors employment or director relationship with the Company or the termination thereof, including, but not limited to, any claim, demand, obligation, liability or cause of action arising under any federal, state or local employment law or ordinance, tort, contract or breach of public policy theory or alleged violation of any other legal obligation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall release the Releasor and his dependents, administrators, agents, executors, successors, assigns, and heirs, (i) in respect of the Companys rights under the Employment Agreement, or (ii) from any claims or damages based on any right or claim that arises after the date the Company executes this release.
 
(e)  The Companys release shall become effective on the Revocation Date, assuming that Releasor shall have executed this release and returned it to the Company and has not revoked Releasors consent to this release prior to the Revocation Date.
 
(f)  In the event that any one or more of the provisions of this release shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remainder of this release shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
 
2
 
This release shall be governed by the law of the State of Connecticut without reference to its choice of law rules.
 
Signed as of this ____ day of _____________.
Signed as of this ____ day of _____________.
 
 
 
 
3
 

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the ) by and between The Stanley Works, a Connecticut corporation (the ), and James M. Loree (the ), dated November 2, 2009 (the ) and effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in Section 1 below).
Agreement
Company
Executive
Execution Date
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company, Blue Jay Acquisition Corp. () and The Black & Decker Corporation, a Maryland corporation (), propose to enter into a merger agreement, dated as of the date hereof (the ), whereby, subject to the satisfaction of the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, Black & Decker will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company upon consummation of the Merger (as defined in the Merger Agreement);
Merger Sub
Black & Decker
Merger Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Executive has provided services to the Company in exchange for certain compensation and benefits prior to entry into this Agreement;
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive entered into an Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement dated December 10, 2008, which remains in full force and effect; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive mutually desire to enter into this Agreement, effective as of the Closing (as defined in the Merger Agreement), pursuant to which the Executive will continue to provide services to the Company from and after the Closing in exchange for certain compensation and benefits as provided in this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
 
1.             .
EFFECTIVENESS; TERM
 
(a)           This Agreement shall become effective upon the Closing (the date of the Closing, the ).  If the Merger Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms prior to the consummation of the Merger or if the Executive is not continuously employed by the Company from the Execution Date to the Closing, this Agreement shall be null and void ab initio and of no further force or effect.
Effective Date
 
(b)           Subject to Section 1(a), the term of this Agreement, and the term of the Executives service hereunder, shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue until the occurrence of a Date of Termination (as defined in Section 4 below) (such period of service, the ).
Term
 
2.             .
POSITION AND DUTIES; LOCATION
 
(a)           During the Term, the Executive shall serve as the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company with such duties and responsibilities as are customarily assigned to such positions, and such other duties and responsibilities commensurate therewith as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the ).  The Executive shall report solely to the Company CEO.  At the Companys request, upon termination of the Executives employment with the Company for any reason, the Executive shall (1) promptly resign from all positions the Executive then holds as an officer or member of the board of directors of any of the Companys subsidiaries or affiliates and (2) execute any and all documentation of such resignations.
Company CEO
 
 
 
 
(b)           During the Term, the Executive shall devote his full business time and effort to the performance of his duties hereunder.  It shall not be considered a violation of the foregoing for the Executive to manage his personal investments or, subject to the approval of the Board, to serve on corporate, industry, civic or charitable boards or committees, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executives duties hereunder.
 
(c)           During the Term, the Executive shall be based at the Companys principal headquarters in New Britain, Connecticut, except for travel reasonably required for the performance of the Executives duties hereunder.
 
3.             .
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
 
(a)           .  As of the Effective Date, the Executives annual base salary will be $750,000.  The Annual Base Salary (as defined below) shall be payable in accordance with the Companys regular payroll practice for its senior executives, as in effect from time to time.  During the Term, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed at least annually by the Compensation and Organization Committee (the ) of the Board of Directors of the Company (the ) for possible increase.  Any increase in the Annual Base Salary shall not limit or reduce any other obligation of the Company under this Agreement.  Once increased, the Annual Base Salary shall not thereafter be decreased, except pursuant to across-the-board salary reductions similarly affecting all senior Company executives.  The term  shall refer to the Annual Base Salary as in effect from time to time.
BASE SALARY
C&O Committee
Board
Annual Base Salary
 
(b)           .  For each fiscal year of the Company during the Term, the Executive shall participate in the Companys Management Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended, or any successor plan thereto (the ).  As of the Effective Date, the Executives annual target bonus opportunity pursuant to the MICP shall equal 100% (the ) of the Annual Base Salary in effect for the Executive at the beginning of such fiscal year (or, in the case of the 2010 fiscal year, as in effect immediately following the Effective Date), with a threshold potential award equal to 50% of such Annual Base Salary and a maximum potential award equal to 200% of such Annual Base Salary.  Any cash bonuses payable to the Executive will be paid at the time the Company normally pays such bonuses to its senior executives in accordance with the terms of the MICP, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which such cash bonuses are earned and vested.
ANNUAL CASH BONUS
MICP
Target Annual Bonus Percentage
 
 
2
 
 
(c)           
EQUITY AWARDS
 
(i)           .  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Company shall grant to the Executive restricted stock units (the ), which number of Merger RSUs shall be determined by the Board such that the aggregate value of the shares of Company common stock underlying such Merger RSUs shall be equal to the value, as of the Closing, of an option to purchase 675,000 shares of Company common stock (based on the full grant date value as determined for purposes of the Companys financial reporting and assuming such options have a 10-year term and other terms and conditions consistent with the most recent option awards made to the Executive).  The Merger RSUs shall be granted under, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Companys 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan or a successor thereto (the ).  The Merger RSUs shall vest and be settled, subject to the Executives continued employment with the Company, 50% on the fourth anniversary of the Closing and 50% on the fifth anniversary of the Closing.  In addition, the Merger RSUs shall become immediately and fully vested and settled in the event (i) the Company terminates the Executives employment other than for Cause (as defined below) or (ii) the Executives employment is terminated by the Executive for Good Reason (as defined below); that, in any such case, such settlement shall occur on the date of the Executives separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ), and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, )).  The Merger RSUs shall accrue dividends and distributions paid on shares of Company common stock in accordance with the Companys customary practices.  Except as described above, the Merger RSUs shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Companys customary award agreement.
MERGER EQUITY GRANT
Merger RSUs
Company Stock Plan
provided
Code
Section 409A
 
(ii)          .  For each fiscal year of the Company during the Term, the Executive shall be eligible to receive (a) annual performance awards with a target annual value (based on the full grant date value as determined for purposes of the Companys financial reporting) equal to 250% of the Annual Base Salary in effect for the Executive at the beginning of such fiscal year (the ), with a threshold potential annual performance award equal to 125% of such Annual Base Salary and a maximum potential annual performance award equal to 400% of such Annual Base Salary, and (b) annual awards of options to purchase 100,000 shares of Company common stock (the  and, collectively with the Annual Performance Awards, the ).  The Annual LTIP Awards shall be granted under, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Company Stock Plan, and shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Companys customary award agreements, including with respect to vesting and exercisability of stock options (if any) after termination of employment; that none of such Annual LTIP Awards shall constitute deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION
Annual Performance Awards
Annual Options
Annual LTIP Awards
provided
 
(d)           .  While the Executive is employed during the Term:  (i) the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all tax-qualified and non-qualified savings, employee stock ownership, employee stock purchase, deferred compensation and retirement and supplemental retirement plans that are generally made available to the Companys senior officers, including, without limitation, the Companys Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (the ), and shall be entitled to participate in all fringe benefit and perquisite practices, policies and programs of the Company made available to the senior officers of the Company or to the Company CEO, including but not limited to the Companys executive car program, financial planning services, executive life insurance program, executive long-term disability program and executive physical program (provided that in each case, such participation shall be no less favorable than that available to senior officers of the Company); and (ii) the Executive and/or the Executives eligible dependents, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in, and shall receive all benefits under, all welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company, including, any medical (with COBRA equivalent premiums paid on a gross-up basis during any waiting period that is not waived), flexible spending, prescription, dental, short- and long-term disability, employee life insurance, group life insurance, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs to the same extent, and subject to the same terms and conditions, as are made available to the senior officers of the Company.
OTHER BENEFITS
SERP
 
 
3
 
 
(c)           .  The Executive shall be entitled to four (4) weeks paid vacation per year.
VACATION
 
(e)           .  The Company shall pay or reimburse the Executive for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Executive during the Term in the performance of the Executives services under this Agreement, in accordance with Company policy for its senior executives and subject to the Reimbursement Rules (as defined in Section 4(e) below).
EXPENSES
 
(f)           .  On December 10, 2008, the Executive and the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Change in Control Severance Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT
 
(g)           .  To the fullest extent permitted by the Companys certificate of incorporation and by-laws, or, if greater, by the laws of the State of Connecticut, the Company shall promptly indemnify and hold harmless the Executive for all amounts (including, without limitation, judgments, fines, settlement payments, losses, damages, costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees), ERISA excise taxes, or other liabilities or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) incurred or paid by the Executive in connection with any action, proceeding, suit or investigation (the ) to which the Executive is made a party, or is threatened to be made a party, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, programs or arrangements, whether or not the basis of such Proceeding is the Executives alleged action in an official capacity.  Such indemnification shall continue even if the Executive has ceased to be a director, employee or agent of the Company or other affiliated entity and shall inure to the benefit of the Executives heirs, executors and administrators.  The Company shall advance to the Executive all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by him in connection with a Proceeding within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt by the Company of a written request from the Executive for such advance.  Such request shall include an undertaking by the Executive to timely repay the amount of such advance if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified against such costs and expenses.  The Company also agrees to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy covering the Executive to the extent the Company provides such coverage for its other senior executive officers.  Following the Term, the Company shall continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy for the benefit of the Executive which is no less favorable than the policy covering other senior officers of the Company.
INDEMNIFICATION
Proceeding
 
 
4
 
 
4.             .
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
 
(a)           .  The Executives employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executives death during the Term.  The Company shall be entitled to terminate the Executives employment because of the Executives Disability during the Term.   means that the Executive is disabled within the meaning of the Companys long-term disability policy for salaried employees (or any successor thereto) or, if there is no such policy in effect, that (i) the Executive has been substantially unable, for 120 business days within a period of 180 consecutive business days, to perform the Executives duties under this Agreement, as a result of physical or mental illness or injury, and (ii) a physician selected by the Company and the Executive or the Executives legal representative has determined that the Executive is totally and permanently disabled.  In the event that the Executive and the Company cannot agree as to a physician to make such a determination, each shall appoint a physician and those two (2) physicians shall select a third who shall make such determination in writing.  A termination of the Executives employment by the Company for Disability shall be communicated to the Executive by written notice, and shall be effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the ), unless the Executive returns to full-time performance of the Executives duties before the Disability Effective Time.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that as a result of absence because of mental or physical incapacity the Executive incurs a separation from service within the meaning of such term under Section 409A, the Executive shall on such date automatically be terminated from employment because of Disability.
DEATH OR DISABILITY
Disability
Disability Effective Time
 
(b)           .  The Company may terminate the Executives employment during the Term for Cause or without Cause.
TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY
 
(i)           is defined as (A) the Executives willful and continued failure to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from his incapacity due to physical or mental illness) that has not been cured within thirty (30) calendar days after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that the Executive has not substantially performed his duties, (B) the willful engaging by the Executive in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or its affiliates, (C) the Executives conviction of (or plea of nolo contendere to) any felony or any other crime involving dishonesty, fraud or moral turpitude, (D) any violation of the Companys policies relating to compliance with applicable laws that has a material adverse effect on the Company or its affiliates or (E) the Executives breach of any restrictive covenant set forth in Section 8 hereof.  For purposes of clauses (A) and (B) of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on the Executives part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company.
Cause
 
 
5
 
 
(ii)         A termination of the Executives employment for Cause shall not be effective unless it is accomplished in accordance with the following procedures.  The Board shall give the Executive written notice () of its intention to terminate the Executives employment for Cause, setting forth in detail the specific conduct (including any failure to act) of the Executive that it considers to constitute Cause, and proposing the date, time and place (which, in each case, shall be subject to the Executives approval; provided that such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) of the Special Board Meeting for Cause.  The  means a meeting of the Board called and held specifically and exclusively for the purpose of considering the Executives termination for Cause, that takes place not less than forty-five (45) business days after the Executive receives the Notice of Termination for Cause.  The Board shall provide the Executive an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard at the Special Board Meeting for Cause.  The Executives termination for Cause shall be effective when and if a resolution is duly adopted at the Special Board Meeting for Cause stating that, in the good faith opinion of a majority of the Board (other than the Executive), the Executives conduct constitutes Cause under this Agreement.
Notice of Termination for Cause
Special Board Meeting for Cause
 
(c)           .  The Executive may terminate employment for Good Reason or without Good Reason.
GOOD REASON
 
(i)           is defined as, without the Executives consent, (A) the assignment to the Executive of any duties inconsistent with his status as the Companys Chief Operating Officer or a material adverse alteration in the nature or status of the Executives responsibilities, unless the Company has cured such events within ten (10) business days after the receipt of written notice thereof from the Executive, (B) a reduction in the Executives Annual Base Salary or Target Annual Bonus Percentage, except for across-the-board salary reductions similarly affecting all senior Company executives, (C) the relocation of the Companys headquarters to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from the location of such headquarters on the Effective Date, or (D) the Companys election not to renew the Change in Control Severance Agreement.
Good Reason
 
(ii)         A termination of employment by the Executive for Good Reason shall be effectuated by giving the Company written notice () of the termination, setting forth in reasonable detail the specific conduct of the Company that constitutes Good Reason; provided, however, that no termination by the Executive shall be treated as a termination for Good Reason unless the Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given within forty-five (45) business days following the date the Executive first has knowledge of the event or circumstance alleged to constitute Good Reason.  A termination of employment by the Executive for Good Reason shall be effective fifteen (15) business days following the date when the Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given, unless the event or circumstance constituting Good Reason is remedied by the Company in accordance with the foregoing.
Notice of Termination for Good Reason
 
(iii)        A termination of the Executives employment by the Executive without Good Reason shall be effected by giving the Company thirty (30) calendar days advance written notice of the termination.
 
 
6
 
 
(d)           .  The  means the date of the Executives death, the Disability Effective Time or the date on which the termination of the Executives employment by the Company for Cause or without Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason or without Good Reason is effective.  A termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred for purposes of any provision of this Agreement providing for the payment of any amounts or benefits subject to Section 409A upon or following a termination of employment unless such termination is also a  (within the meaning of Section 409A).
DATE OF TERMINATION
Date of Termination
separation from service
 
(e)           .  The  means the requirement that any amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement under this Agreement be made (i) in accordance with the reimbursement payment date set forth in the applicable provision of this Agreement providing for the reimbursement or (ii) where the applicable provision does not provide for a reimbursement date, thirty (30) calendar days following the date on which the Executive incurs the expenses, but, in each case, no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the Executive incurs the related expenses; provided, that in no event shall the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor shall the Executives right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
REIMBURSEMENT RULES
Reimbursement Rules
 
5.             .
OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY UPON TERMINATION
 
(a)           .  If the Executives employment hereunder terminates for any reason, then (1) the Company shall pay to the Executive, or his estate, beneficiary or legal representative, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within ten (10) business days after the Date of Termination, (i) any portion of the Executives Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination that has not yet been paid, (ii) any earned annual bonus that has not been paid (or previously deferred) for any previous fiscal year, and (iii) any amount needed to reimburse the Executive for any unreimbursed business expenses properly incurred by the Executive in accordance with Company policy prior to the Date of Termination and subject to the Reimbursement Rules, (2) the Company shall also pay or provide to the Executive (or the Executives estate, beneficiary, or legal representative, as the case may be) all compensation and benefits payable to the Executive under the terms of the Companys compensation and benefit plans, programs or arrangements as in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination, in accordance with the terms of such plans, programs or arrangements, and (3) except as otherwise set forth below in Section 5(c), all of the Executives then outstanding equity and incentive compensation awards shall be treated in accordance with the terms of the plans and agreements evidencing such awards.
OBLIGATIONS ON ANY TERMINATION
 
(b)           .  If the Executives employment hereunder terminates by reason of death or Disability, then the Company, in addition to making the payments and benefits in Section 5(a), shall pay to the Executive, or his estate, beneficiary or legal representative, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) business days following the Date of Termination, a pro-rata portion of the Executives Target Annual Bonus Percentage of Annual Base Salary for the Companys fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (the ).  The Pro-Rata Bonus shall be calculated by multiplying the Target Annual Bonus Percentage of Annual Base Salary by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the Companys fiscal year that have elapsed to the Date of Termination and the denominator of which is the number of days in such fiscal year.
OBLIGATIONS ON A TERMINATION DUE TO DEATH OR DISABILITY
Pro-Rata Bonus
 
 
7
 
 
(c)           .
OTHER THAN FOR CAUSE, DISABILITY, OR DEATH, OR FOR GOOD REASON
 
(i)          If, during the Term, the Company terminates the Executives employment for any reason other than for Cause, death or Disability, or the Executive terminates his employment for Good Reason, then, in addition to making the payments and providing the benefits pursuant to Section 5(a), subject to Section 5(c)(ii) and Section 5(e), (1) on the sixtieth (60) day following the Date of Termination, the Company shall pay to the Executive a lump sum in cash equal to two times the sum of (i) the Executives Annual Base Salary immediately prior to the Date of Termination plus (ii) the Executives Target Annual Bonus Percentage of Annual Base Salary for the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (); (2) the Executive shall be entitled to immediate vesting of any Merger RSUs outstanding as of the Date of Termination in accordance with Section 3(c)(i); (3) the Company shall provide or arrange to provide the Executive and his eligible dependents, at no greater cost to the Executive than the cost to the Executive immediately prior to the Date of Termination, life, disability, accident and health insurance benefits (the ) no less favorable than those provided to the Executive and his eligible dependents immediately prior to the Date of Termination for twenty-four (24) months following the Date of Termination (the ), or, if sooner, until he becomes eligible for such benefits from a new employer (and the Executive shall promptly notify the Company of such eligibility from any new employer), but only to the extent that the Executive makes a payment to the Company in an amount equal to the monthly premium payments (both the employee and employer portion) required to maintain such coverage on the first day of each calendar month commencing with the first calendar month following the Date of Termination and the Company shall reimburse the Executive on an after-tax basis for the amount of such premiums, if any, in excess of any employee contributions necessary to maintain such coverage for the Continuation Period and such reimbursement shall comply with the Reimbursement Rules; (4) the Company shall pay the Executive, on sixtieth (60th) day following the Date of Termination, the Pro-Rata Bonus; and (5) the Executive shall be deemed to have attained service through the greater of the Executives actual age as of the Date of Termination and age 54 for all purposes (including vesting and benefit accrual) under the SERP.
th
Cash Severance
Health and Welfare Benefits
Continuation Period
 
(ii)         In the event that, during the Continuation Period, the Executive shall, without the written consent of the Board, directly or indirectly, as employee, agent, consultant, stockholder, director, manager, co-partner or in any other individual or representative capacity, own, operate, manage, control, engage in, invest in or participate in any manner in, act as consultant or advisor to, render services for (alone or in association with any person, firm, corporation or entity), or otherwise assist any person or entity (other than the Company) that engages in or owns, invests in, operates, manages or controls any venture or enterprise that directly or indirectly engages or proposes to engage in any Competitive Business (as defined below), then the Companys obligations to make any further payments or provide any further benefits under this Section 5(c) shall immediately terminate.   shall mean any line of business that is substantially the same as any line of any operating business which on the Date of Termination the Company was engaged in or conducting and which during the Companys preceding fiscal constituted at least 5% of the gross sales of the Company and its subsidiaries.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive may become a partner or employee of, or otherwise acquire an interest in, a stock or business brokerage firm, consulting or advisory firm, investment banking firm or similar organization which, as part of its business, trades or invests in securities of Competitive Businesses or which represents or acts as agent or advisor for Competitive Businesses, but only on condition that the Executive shall not personally render any services in connection with such Competitive Business either directly to such Competitive Business or other persons or to the Executives firm in connection therewith.
Competitive Business
 
 
8
 
 
(d)           .
SECTION 409A
 
(i)          Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, if the Executive is a  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company) at the time of his separation from service and if any portion of the payments or benefits to be received by the Executive upon separation from service would be considered deferred compensation under Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Executives separation from service (the ) and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement (the ) during the six-month period immediately following the Executives separation from service (such period, the ) shall instead be paid or made available on the earlier of (i) the first business day of the seventh month following the date of the Executives separation from service or (ii) Executives death (the applicable date, the ).  The Company shall also reimburse the Executive for the after-tax cost incurred by the Executive in independently obtaining any Delayed Benefits (the ).
specified employee
Delayed Payments
Delayed Benefits
Delay Period
Permissible Payment Date
Additional Delayed Payments
 
(ii)         With respect to any amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement under Section 5(a)(1)(iii), such expenses shall be reimbursed by the Company within thirty (30) calendar days following the date on which the Company receives the applicable invoice from the Executive but in no event later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the Executive incurs the related expenses; provided, that with respect to reimbursement relating to the Additional Delayed Payments, such reimbursement shall be made on the Permissible Payment Date.  In no event shall the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor shall the Executives right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
 
(iii)        Each payment under this Agreement shall be considered a separate payment and not of a series of payments for purposes of Section 409A.
 
(iv)        Any Delayed Payments shall bear interest at the United States 5-year Treasury Rate plus 2%, which accumulated interest shall be paid to the Executive on the Permissible Payment Date.
 
 
9
 
 
(e)           .  As a condition of receiving any payments for which the Executive otherwise qualifies under Section 5(c)(i), the Executive shall be required to execute, deliver and not revoke, within sixty (60) calendar days following the Executives separation from service, the mutual release attached hereto as Exhibit A (the ), such Release to be delivered by the Executive no later than sixty (60) calendar days following the Executives separation from service.  If the Release has not been executed, delivered and become irrevocable by the Executive within the statutory revocation period, all payments under Section 5(c)(i) shall be forfeited.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company does not execute and deliver the Release to the Executive within two (2) business days following the Executives delivery of the Release to the Company, then any requirement for the Executive to execute, deliver and not revoke the Release as a condition of receiving any payments under Section 5(c)(i) will have no effect, and the Executive shall be entitled to receive any payments to which the Executive otherwise qualifies under Section 5(c)(i).
EXECUTION OF RELEASE
Release
 
6.             .  Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executives continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies for which the Executive may qualify nor shall anything in this Agreement limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its affiliated companies.  Vested benefits and other amounts that the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract of agreement with, the Company or any of its affiliated companies on or after the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with the terms of each such plan, policy, practice, program, contract or agreement, as the case may be, except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS
 
7.             .  Except as provided herein, the Companys obligation to make the payments provided for in, and otherwise to perform its obligations under, this Agreement shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action that the Company may have against the Executive or others.  In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action to mitigate the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced, regardless of whether the Executive obtains other employment.
FULL SETTLEMENT
 
8.             .
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; SOLICITATION
 
(a)           The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company any and all information of the Company and its subsidiaries that is not generally known by others with whom they compete or do business, or with whom they plan to compete or do business and any and all information not readily available to the public, which, if disclosed by the Company or its subsidiaries could reasonably be of benefit to such person or business in competing with or doing business with the Company ().  Confidential Information includes, without limitation, such information relating to the (i) development, research, testing, manufacturing, store operational processes, marketing and financial activities, including costs, profits and sales, of the Company and its subsidiaries, (ii) products and all formulas therefor, (iii) costs, sources of supply, financial performance and strategic plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, (iv) identity and special needs of the customers and suppliers of the Company and its subsidiaries and (v) people and organizations with whom the Company and its subsidiaries have business relationships and those relationships.  Confidential Information also includes comparable information that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have received belonging to others or which was received by the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to an agreement by the Company that it would not be disclosed.  Confidential Information does not include information which (A) is or becomes available to the public generally (other than as a result of the Executives unauthorized disclosure), (B) was within the Executives possession prior to the date hereof or prior to its being furnished to the Executive by or on behalf of the Company, provided that the source of such information was not bound by a confidentiality agreement with or other contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation of confidentiality to the Company or any other party with respect to such information, (C) becomes available to the Executive on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Company or its subsidiaries, provided that such source is not bound by a confidentiality agreement with or other contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation of confidentiality to the Company or any other party with respect to such information, (D) was independently developed the Executive without reference to the Confidential Information or (E) is required by law to be disclosed.  The Executive shall promptly return to the Company upon the Date of Termination or at any other time the Company may so request, all notes, records, documents, files and memoranda (including in electronic format and all copies of such materials) constituting Confidential Information he may then possess or have under his control; provided, however, that he may retain his personal correspondence, diaries and other items of a personal nature.
Confidential Information
 
 
10
 
 
(b)           For a period of two (2) years after the Date of Termination, the Executive shall not, without the written consent of the Board, directly or indirectly, (i) hire any person who was employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (other than persons employed in a clerical or other non-professional position) within the six (6) month period preceding the date of such hiring; or (ii) solicit, entice, persuade or induce (in each case, other than pursuant to non-targeted, general advertisements) any person or entity doing business with the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates, to terminate such relationship or to refrain from extending or renewing the same.
 
(c)           The Executive agrees that, in addition to any other remedies available to the Company, the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief in the event of any actual or threatened breach of this Section 8 without the necessity of posting any bond, it being acknowledged and agreed that any breach or threatened breach of this Section 8 hereof will cause irreparable injury to the Company and that money damages alone will not provide an adequate remedy to the Company.
 
9.             .  Except for the Companys right to seek injunctive relief as set forth in Section 8(c), all disputes arising under, related to, or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled by expedited arbitration conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators sitting in Hartford, Connecticut, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The decision of the arbitrators in that proceeding shall be binding on the Company and the Executive.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrators in any court having jurisdiction.  Each party shall bear its own costs and expenses (including legal fees) in connection with any arbitration proceeding instituted hereunder; provided, however, that if the Executive prevails in the arbitration, his costs and expenses shall be promptly reimbursed by the Company.  The reimbursement provided for in this Section 9 shall be made as soon as practicable following the resolution of such contest or dispute (whether or not appealed) to the extent the Company received reasonable written evidence of such fees and expenses, but in any event no later than within thirty (30) calendar days following the date on which such consent or dispute (whether or not appealed) is resolved.
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
 
10.           .  This Agreement is personal to the Executive and, without the prior written consent of the Company, shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executives legal representatives.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors.  In addition to any obligations imposed by law upon any successor to the Company, the Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession and benefits had taken place.  Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle the Executive to compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as the Executive would be entitled to hereunder if the Executive were to terminate the Executives employment for Good Reason.
ASSIGNMENT; SUCCESSORS
 
 
11
 
 
11.           .  As a material inducement to the Companys willingness to enter into this Agreement, the Executive represents to the Company that neither the execution of this Agreement by the Executive, the employment of the Executive by the Company nor the performance by the Executive of his duties hereunder will constitute a violation by the Executive of any employment, non-competition or other agreement to which the Executive is a party.  The Company represents and warrants that it is fully authorized and empowered to enter into this Agreement (and those contemplated hereby) and that the performance of its obligations under this Agreement will not violate any agreement between it and any other person, firm or organization.
NO VIOLATIONS
 
12.           .
MISCELLANEOUS
 
(a)           .  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Connecticut, without reference to principles of conflict of laws.  The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
GOVERNING LAW
 
(b)           .  All notices and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
NOTICES
 
If to the Executive:
 
At his address on file with the Company
 
If to the Company:
 
The Stanley Works
1000 Stanley Drive
New Britain, Connecticut 06053
Facsimile:  860-827-3911
Attention:  Bruce H. Beatt, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
With a copy to:
 
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
Worldwide Plaza
825 Eighth Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Attention:  Eric W. Hilfers, Esq.
 
or to such other address as either party furnishes to the other in writing in accordance with this paragraph (b) of Section 12.  Notices and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
 
12
 
 
(c)           .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in part, the remaining portion of such provision, together with all other provisions of this Agreement, shall remain valid and enforceable and continue in full force and effect to the fullest extent consistent with law.
SEVERABILITY
 
(d)           .  The Company shall pay directly or reimburse the Executive for legal fees and expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation and preparation of this Agreement; provided, however, that such payment or reimbursement obligation shall not exceed $10,000 in the aggregate.  Such payment or reimbursement by the Company shall be subject to the Reimbursement Rules.
LEGAL FEES
 
(e)           .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company may withhold from amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, local and foreign taxes that are required to be withheld by applicable laws or regulations.
WITHHOLDING
 
(f)           .  The Executives or the Companys failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provisions of, or to assert any right under, this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or of any other provision of or right under this Agreement.
WAIVER
 
(g)           .  The Executive and the Company acknowledge that this Agreement (together with Exhibit A hereto) constitutes the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede any other prior agreement or other understanding, whether oral or written, express or implied, between them concerning, related to or otherwise in connection with, the subject matter hereof and that, following the date hereof, no such agreement or understanding shall be of any further force or effect.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
 
(h)           .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A.  This Agreement shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention.  The subject matter of this Agreement involves complex and substantial tax considerations.  The Executive acknowledges that he has been afforded adequate opportunity to consult and that he has consulted with his own tax adviser with respect to this Agreement.  The Company makes no warranties or representations whatsoever to the Executive regarding the tax consequences of any item of compensation subject to this Agreement and which is paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
SECTION 409A
 
(i)           .  To the extent necessary to effectuate the terms of this Agreement, terms of this Agreement which must survive the termination of the Executives employment or the termination of this Agreement shall so survive.
SURVIVAL OF TERMS
 
(j)           .  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and said counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
COUNTERPARTS
 
(k)           .  This Agreement and the provisions contained in it shall not be construed or interpreted for or against any party to this Agreement because that party drafted or caused that partys legal representative to draft any of its provisions.
EACH PARTY THE DRAFTER
 
 
13
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executives hand and, pursuant to the authorization of its Board, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written, to become effective as of the Execution Date.
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
(a)  James M. Loree (Releasor) for and in consideration of benefits provided pursuant to an Employment Agreement with The Stanley Works entered into on November 2, 2009 (the Employment Agreement), does for himself and his heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, hereby now and forever, voluntarily, knowingly and willingly release and discharge The Stanley Works and its parents, subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, the Company Group), together with their respective present and former partners, officers, directors, employees and agents, and each of their predecessors, heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns (but as to any partner, officer, director, employee or agent, only in connection with, or in relationship to, his to its capacity as a partner, officer, director, employee or agent of the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates and not in connection with, or in relationship to, his or its personal capacity unrelated to the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates) (collectively, the Company Releasees) from any and all charges, complaints, claims, promises, agreements, controversies, causes of action and demands of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, which against the Company Releasees, jointly or severally, Releasor or Releasors heirs, executors, administrators, successors or assigns ever had or now have by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising from the beginning of time to the time Releasor executes this release arising out of or relating in any way to Releasors employment or director relationship with the Company, or the termination thereof, including but not limited to, any rights or claims arising under any statute or regulation, including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, each as amended, or any other federal, state or local law, regulation, ordinance or common law, or under any policy, agreement, understanding or promise, written or oral, formal or informal, between any Company Releasee and Releasor.  Releasor shall not seek or be entitled to any recovery, in any action or proceeding that may be commenced on Releasors behalf in any way arising out of or relating to the matters released under this Release.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall release any Company Releasee from any claim or damages based on (i) the Releasors rights under the Employment Agreement, (ii) any right or claim that arises after the date the Releasor executes this release, (iii) the Releasors eligibility for indemnification in accordance with applicable laws or the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary) or any applicable insurance policy, with respect to any liability the Releasor incurs or incurred as a director, officer or employee of the Company or any affiliate or subsidiary (including as a trustee, director or officer of any employee benefit plan) or (iv) any right the Releasor may have to obtain contribution as permitted by law in the event of entry of judgment against the Releasor as a result of any act or failure to act for which the Releasor and the Company or any affiliate or subsidiary are held jointly liable.
 
(b)  Releasor has been advised to consult with an attorney of Releasors choice prior to signing this release, has done so and enters into this release freely and voluntarily.
 
 
 
 
(c)  Releasor has had in excess of twenty-one (21) calendar days to consider the terms of this release.  Once Releasor has signed this release, Releasor has seven (7) additional days to revoke Releasors consent and may do so by writing to the Company as provided in Section 12(b) of the Employment Agreement.  Releasors release shall not be effective, and no payments or benefits shall be due under Section 5(c) of the Employment Agreement, until the eighth day after Releasor shall have executed this release (the Revocation Date) and returned it to the Company, assuming that Releasor has not revoked Releasors consent to this release prior to the Revocation Date.
 
(d)  The Company, for and in consideration of the Releasors covenants under the Employment Agreement, on behalf of itself and the other members of the Company Group and any other Company Releasee, their respective successors and assigns, and any and all other persons claiming through any member of the Company Group or such other Company Releasee, and each of them, does hereby now and forever, voluntarily, knowingly and willingly release and discharge, the Releasor and dependents, administrators, agents, executors, successors, assigns, and heirs, from any and all charges, complaints, claims, promises, agreements, controversies, causes of action and demands of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, which against the Releasor, jointly or severally, the Company and each other member of the Company Group or any other Company Releasee, their respective successors and assigns, and any and all other persons claiming through any member of the Company Group or such other Company Releasee ever had or now have by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising from the beginning of time to the time the Company executes this release arising out of or relating to the Releasors employment or director relationship with the Company or the termination thereof, including, but not limited to, any claim, demand, obligation, liability or cause of action arising under any federal, state or local employment law or ordinance, tort, contract or breach of public policy theory or alleged violation of any other legal obligation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall release the Releasor and his dependents, administrators, agents, executors, successors, assigns, and heirs, (i) in respect of the Companys rights under the Employment Agreement, or (ii) from any claims or damages based on any right or claim that arises after the date the Company executes this release.
 
(e)  The Companys release shall become effective on the Revocation Date, assuming that Releasor shall have executed this release and returned it to the Company and has not revoked Releasors consent to this release prior to the Revocation Date.
 
(f)  In the event that any one or more of the provisions of this release shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remainder of this release shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
 
2
 
This release shall be governed by the law of the State of Connecticut without reference to its choice of law rules.
 
Signed as of this ____ day of _____________.
Signed as of this ____ day of _____________.
 
 
 
 
 
3
 

 
Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AGREEMENT (this ) by and between The Stanley Works, a Connecticut corporation (the ) and Nolan D. Archibald (the ), dated November 2, 2009 (the ) and effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in Section 1 below).
Agreement
Company
Executive Chairman
Execution Date
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company, Blue Jay Acquisition Corp. () and The Black & Decker Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the ), propose to enter into a merger agreement, dated as of the Execution Date (the ), whereby, subject to the satisfaction of the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, the Prior Employer will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company upon consummation of the Merger (as defined in the Merger Agreement);
Merger Sub
Prior Employer
Merger Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Prior Employer and the Executive Chairman entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated November 2, 2009 (the );
Prior Agreement
 
WHEREAS, as an inducement to the Company and Merger Sub to enter into the Merger Agreement, the Company has requested that the Executive Chairman provide services to, and enter into an agreement with, the Company effective as of the Closing (as defined in the Merger Agreement); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive Chairman mutually desire to enter into this Agreement, which will replace and supersede the Prior Agreement as of the Closing (except as specifically set forth in this Agreement) and pursuant to which the Executive Chairman will provide services to the Company from and after the Closing in exchange for certain compensation and benefits as provided in this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
 
1.           
 
.
EFFECTIVENESS; TERM
 
(a) 
This Agreement shall become effective upon the Closing (the date of the Closing, the ).  If the Merger Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms prior to the consummation of the Merger, if the Closing does not occur for any other reason prior to September 30, 2010 or if the Executive Chairman is not continuously employed by the Prior Employer under the terms of the Prior Agreement from the Execution Date to the Closing, this Agreement shall be null and void ab initio and of no further force or effect and the Prior Agreement shall remain in effect.
Effective Date
 
(b)   
Subject to Section 1(a), the term of this Agreement, and the term of the Executive Chairmans service hereunder, shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue until the third anniversary of the Effective Date, unless terminated earlier in accordance with Section 5 of this Agreement (such period of service, the ).
Term
 
 
 
2.           
 
.
POSITION AND DUTIES; LOCATION
 
 
 (ii)  
   
 
During the Term, the Executive Chairman shall also serve as an employee of the Company, reporting directly to the Board, and shall be subject to the Companys policies on the same basis as other senior executives of the Company.  In such capacity, the Executive Chairman shall assist and advise the Company CEO and the Companys other senior executives in connection with the integration of the Company and the Prior Employer and shall have such other duties and responsibilities as the Board may specify from time to time.  Such duties and responsibilities shall initially include the Executive Chairmans service as the Co-Chair, along with the Company CEO, of the Integration Steering Committee of the Company, which committee will be responsible for monitoring the status of integration of the Company and the Prior Employer and providing direction with respect thereto.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board, no employees of the Company shall report to the Executive Chairman in his capacity as an employee (other than his executive assistant).
 
2
 
(b) 
During the Term, the Executive Chairman shall devote the time and effort reasonably required to fulfill his duties and responsibilities hereunder.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, (i) the parties hereto intend that, as of the Closing, the Executive Chairman shall have a separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ), and the regulations thereunder) from the Prior Employer (and this Agreement shall be applied in such manner in all material respects), and (ii) the Executive Chairman shall not be required or expected to perform any services or devote the time necessary to perform any services that would be inconsistent with the Executive Chairman experiencing such a separation from service as of the Closing.  It shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement for the Executive Chairman to manage his personal investments or, subject to the approval of the Board, to serve on corporate, industry, civic or charitable boards or committees, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive Chairmans duties hereunder.
Code
 
(c) 
For a period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the later of six months following the Effective Date and December 31, 2010, the Executive Chairmans office location shall be at the Executive Chairmans most recent office location with the Prior Employer in Towson, Maryland, except that the Executive Chairman shall travel as reasonably required in order to perform the Executive Chairmans duties under this Agreement.  Thereafter and for the remainder of the Term, the Company shall provide the Executive Chairman with reasonable furnished office space at a location and on other terms mutually acceptable to the Board and the Executive Chairman.  In addition, during the Term, the Executive Chairman shall be entitled to choose, and the Company will offer employment on commercially reasonable terms (consistent with Company policies) to, the Executive Chairmans executive assistant.
 
3.           
 
.
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
 
(a) 
 .  During the Term, the Executive Chairmans annual base salary () will be $1,500,000.  The Annual Base Salary shall be payable in accordance with the Companys regular payroll practice for its senior executives, as in effect from time to time.
BASE SALARY
Annual Base Salary
 
(b)
 
.  During the Term, the Executive Chairman shall participate in the Companys Management Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended, or any successor plan thereto (the ).  The Executive Chairmans annual target bonus opportunity pursuant to the MICP for each fiscal year of the Company during the Term shall equal $1,875,000 (the ), which shall be subject to the attainment of such performance goals and other conditions as shall be determined by the Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board (the ); that such performance goals shall be substantially similar to the performance goals applicable to the annual cash bonus opportunity provided to the Company CEO for the applicable fiscal year, except that no vesting or similar requirement shall require the provision of services by the Executive Chairman after the third anniversary of the Effective Date.  In the event that the Executive Chairman participates in the MICP for less than a full fiscal year of the Company for any reason, the Annual Bonus Amount (and the related performance goals) for such partial year shall be pro rated to reflect the number of days that the Executive Chairman participates in the MICP during such fiscal year.  Any cash bonuses payable to the Executive Chairman will be paid at the time the Company normally pays such bonuses to its senior executives in accordance with the terms of the MICP.
ANNUAL CASH BONUS
MICP
Annual Bonus Amount
C&O Committee
provided
 
3
 
(c)  
.
EQUITY AWARDS
 
                          (i)  
   
 
.  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Company shall grant to the Executive Chairman options to acquire 1,000,000 shares of Company common  stock (the ), which shall be granted under, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Companys 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan or a successor thereto (the ).  The Sign-on Options shall have an exercise price equal to the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Company Stock Plan) of a share of Company common stock on the date of grant and shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.  The Sign-on Options shall vest in full, subject to the Executive Chairmans continued employment with the Company, on the third anniversary of the Effective Date; that the Sign-on Options shall become immediately and fully vested in the event the Company terminates the Executive Chairmans employment other than for Cause (as defined below), the Executive Chairmans employment is terminated by the Executive Chairman for Good Reason (as defined below) or the Executive Chairmans employment is terminated due to his death or Disability (as defined below), in each case, pursuant to Section 5.  Any Sign-on Options that become vested shall remain exercisable until their expiration date.  Except as described above, the Sign-on Options shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Companys customary award agreement; that such terms and conditions shall be substantially similar to the equivalent terms and conditions of stock options most recently granted to the Company CEO.
SIGN-ON OPTIONS
Sign-on Options
Company Stock Plan
provided
provided
 
 (ii)  
   
   
   
.  During the Term, the Executive Chairman shall receive, at the time that annual equity awards are granted to senior executives of the Company, annual equity or equity-based compensation awards with an aggregate annual value (based on the full grant date value as determined for purposes of the Companys financial reporting) equal to $6,650,000 (the ), which shall be comprised (based on value) of 50% stock options and 50% restricted stock, restricted stock units or other full-share types of awards and which shall be granted under, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Company Stock Plan.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Executive Chairman shall receive three Annual Equity Awards (one Annual Equity Award during each year of employment) and shall not be eligible to receive more than three Annual Equity Awards.  The Annual Equity Awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Companys customary award agreements, including with respect to vesting and exercisability of stock options (if any) after termination of employment; that (i) no vesting or similar requirement shall require the provision of services by the Executive Chairman after the third anniversary of the Effective Date, (ii) in the event the Company terminates the Executive Chairmans employment other than for Cause (as defined below), the Executive Chairmans employment is terminated by the Executive Chairman for Good Reason (as defined below) or the Executive Chairmans employment is terminated due to his death or Disability (as defined below), in each case, pursuant to Section 5, the Annual Equity Awards shall become immediately and fully vested, (iii) stock options or stock appreciation rights (if any) that become vested will remain exercisable until their respective expiration dates (without regard to such termination), (iv) none of such Annual Equity Awards shall constitute deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and (v) except as provided herein, the other terms and conditions of the Annual Equity Awards shall be substantially similar to the other terms and conditions of equity-based compensation awards granted to the Company CEO during the applicable year.
ANNUAL EQUITY AWARDS
Annual Equity Awards
provided
 
4
 
(d)  
.  The Executive Chairman shall be eligible to receive, subject to continued employment with the Company through the third anniversary of the Effective Date (except as provided in Section 6), a cash bonus (the ) based on the Companys attainment, as certified by the Audit Committee of the Board (the ) and the Companys Chief Financial Officer (), of cost synergy goals.  The applicable cost synergy targets and corresponding payout amounts are set forth on hereto.  During the Term, the Company shall provide the Executive Chairman with quarterly estimates of the Cost Synergy Level Attained.   No later than 60 days after the third anniversary of the Effective Date, the Audit Committee and CFO shall certify the Cost Synergy Level Attained (as defined in ), which shall be reflected in, and consistent with, the Companys public disclosures relating to cost synergies, and the corresponding Cost Synergy Bonus Amount (as defined in ).  The Executive Chairman shall be entitled to consult with the Audit Committee and Company CFO regarding the calculation of the Cost Synergy Level Attained but shall not vote on or otherwise participate in the certification thereof or participate in any way in the certification of the Cost Synergy Bonus Amount.  The Cost Synergy Bonus Amount (if any) shall be paid on the 90th day after the third anniversary of the Effective Date (such payment date, the ).
COST SYNERGY BONUS
Cost Synergy Bonus
Audit Committee
Company CFO
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Cost Synergy Bonus Payment Date
 
(e) 
.  During the Term,  (i) the Executive Chairman shall be entitled to participate in all fringe benefit and perquisite practices, policies and programs of the Company generally made available to the Company CEO, including but not limited to the Companys executive car program, financial planning services, executive life insurance program, executive long-term disability program and executive physical program, in each case, to the extent permitted under applicable law, the terms of the applicable plan, program or policy and Company policies; that (x) such participation shall be on a basis no less favorable than that available to the Company CEO, (y) the perquisites provided by the Company shall be no less favorable than those provided to the Executive Chairman by the Prior Employer on December 31, 2008, including perquisites related to the business and personal use of the Prior Employers aircraft, and (z) the Executive Chairman shall not be eligible to enter into a Change in Control Severance Agreement with the Company, and (ii) the Executive Chairman and/or the Executive Chairmans eligible dependents, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in, and shall receive all benefits under, all welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company, including any medical (with COBRA equivalent premiums paid on a gross-up basis during any waiting period that is not waived), flexible spending, prescription, dental, short- and long-term disability, employee life insurance, group life insurance, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs to the same extent, and subject to the same terms and conditions, as are made available to the senior executives of the Company, in each case, to the extent permitted under applicable law, the terms of the applicable plan, program or policy and Company policies.
OTHER BENEFITS
provided
 
 
5
 
(f)  
.  The Company shall pay or reimburse the Executive Chairman for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Executive Chairman during the Term in the performance of the Executive Chairmans services under this Agreement, in accordance with Company policy for its senior executives and subject to the Reimbursement Rules (as defined in Section 5(e) below).  The Company shall pay to the Executive Chairman all reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by him as a result of a termination of employment described in Section 6(b) or (c) (including all such reasonable fees and expenses, if any, incurred in contesting or disputing any such termination or in seeking to obtain or enforce any right or benefit provided in this Agreement), which payments shall be subject to the Reimbursement Rules.
EXPENSES; LEGAL FEES
 
(g) 
.  To the fullest extent permitted by the Companys certificate of incorporation and by-laws, or, if greater, by the laws of the State of Connecticut, the Company shall promptly indemnify and hold harmless the Executive Chairman for all amounts (including, without limitation, judgments, fines, settlement payments, losses, damages, costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees), ERISA excise taxes, or other liabilities or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) incurred or paid by the Executive Chairman in connection with any action, proceeding, suit or investigation (the ) to which the Executive Chairman is made a party, or is threatened to be made a party, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company, the Prior Employer (with respect to all periods prior to, occurring on, and subsequent to, the Effective Date), or is or was serving at the request of the Company or the Prior Employer as a director, officer, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, programs or arrangements, whether or not the basis of such Proceeding is the Executive Chairmans alleged action or inaction in an official capacity.  Such indemnification shall continue even if the Executive Chairman has ceased to be a director, employee or agent of the Company or other affiliated entity and shall inure to the benefit of the Executive Chairmans heirs, executors and administrators.  The Company shall advance to the Executive Chairman all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by him in connection with a Proceeding within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt by the Company of a written request from the Executive Chairman for such advance.  Such request shall include an undertaking by the Executive Chairman to timely repay the amount of such advance if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified against such costs and expenses.  The Company also agrees to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy covering the Executive Chairman to the most favorable extent that the Company provides such coverage for its other senior executives or members of the Board.  For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Section 3(g) shall be in addition to, and not affect, any rights the Executive Chairman may have under the Merger Agreement to indemnification and liability insurance coverage.
INDEMNIFICATION
Proceeding
 
(h) 
 
Except as provided herein, the Executive Chairman shall not receive any compensation in respect of his service as a member or the executive chairman of the Board.
 
 
 
6
 
4.           
.
EXISTING ENTITLEMENTS
 
(a) 
Upon the Effective Date, this Agreement shall replace and supersede in its entirety the Prior Agreement, which shall have no further force or effect; , , that the Executive Chairman shall continue to be entitled to the payments and benefits under the Prior Agreement that are described in Section 4(b) hereof.  In addition, the Company shall, and shall cause its subsidiaries (including the Prior Employer) to, honor, in accordance with their terms, the Executive Chairmans existing entitlements under each plan or arrangement described in Section 4(c) hereof.
provided
however
 
(b) 
The Executive Chairman shall remain entitled to, or otherwise agrees to modify, the following payments and benefits under the Prior Agreement as set forth in this
Section
4(b), which such payments and benefits shall, for the avoidance of doubt, survive a termination of the Executive Chairmans employment and a termination of this Agreement for any reason.
 
   (i)
   
   
 
 
Notwithstanding the occurrence of a separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder) from the Prior Employer as of the Effective Date, immediately following the Effective Date, the Executive Chairman hereby waives his entitlement to the Severance Payment (as defined in Section 4.2(b) of the Prior Agreement); , , that, solely for purposes of calculating the amount payable to the Executive Chairman under the Prior Employers Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the ), the Executive Chairman shall be considered to have been entitled to receive such Severance Payment as a result of the separation from service.
provided
however
SERP
 
 (ii) 
      
Immediately following the Effective Date, the Executive Chairman hereby waives his entitlement to the Gross-Up Payment (as defined in Section 4.2(e) of the Prior Agreement) in respect of the Merger.
 
(iii)
   
   
To the extent not previously paid by the Prior Employer, the Executive Chairman shall be entitled to reimbursement for any legal fees and expenses incurred and payable in accordance with Section 4.2(d) of the Prior Agreement, which, notwithstanding the waiver under Section 4(b)(ii) hereof, shall include the application of Section 4999 of the Code to all payments and benefits under this Agreement in connection with the Merger.
 
(iv)
   
   
In the event the Executive Chairmans employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause (including, solely for purposes of this Section 4(b)(iv), a termination for any reason upon the third anniversary of the Effective Date), by the Executive Chairman for Good Reason or due to death or Disability, the provisions of Section 4.2(c) of the Prior Agreement shall apply with respect to all the outstanding restricted stock (and restricted stock units) and stock option awards granted to the Executive Chairman prior to the Closing (which, upon Closing, shall be converted into awards in respect of the common stock of the Company at Closing in accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement and shall otherwise continue in accordance with the terms and conditions of such awards as were applicable immediately prior to the Closing, subject to the provisions of Sections 4.2(c) (as provided above) and 5.1 of the Prior Agreement); , , that, for the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding any provisions of the Prior Agreement or this Agreement to the contrary, the Executive Chairman agrees that his separation of service from the Prior Employer at the time of the Closing shall not constitute Good Reason under the Prior Agreement for purposes of applying Section 4.2(c) of the Prior Agreement at Closing; , , that, notwithstanding any provisions of the Merger Agreement to the contrary, the Executive Chairman agrees that all outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock units granted to the Executive Chairman prior to the Closing shall not vest immediately prior to the Closing and, instead, shall be converted into, and shall constitute, a restricted share or restricted stock unit, as applicable, with respect to Company common stock, the number of shares of Company common stock, rounded down to the nearest whole share, determined by multiplying the number of shares of Prior Employer common stock subject to such restricted shares and restricted stock units, as applicable, by the Exchange Ratio (as defined in the Merger Agreement).
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
 
7
 
(c)
 
In addition, the Executive Chairman shall receive the following payments and benefits pursuant to the Prior Agreement or other applicable Prior Employer plan or policy:
 
(i)
   
   
  
 
to the extent not previously paid by the Prior Employer, a payment of $3,750,000 in respect of the Prior Employers Executive Annual Incentive Plan for 2009, which shall be payable promptly but no later than 15 days after the Effective Date;
 
                              (ii)
 
to the extent not previously paid by the Prior Employer, a payment of $4,725,000 in respect of the Prior Employers 2008 Executive Long-Term Incentive Retention Plan, which shall be payable promptly but no later than 15 days after the Effective Date; and
 
                             
(iii)
 
all amounts owed to the Executive Chairman under the Prior Employers SERP, Supplemental Pension Plan and the Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan, which (A) shall be payable in accordance with any election previously made by the Executive Chairman (or the Prior Employer), and in the absence of such election a lump sum on the Closing, but in no event earlier than the earliest date permissible in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and (B) solely with respect to the SERP, shall be determined without regard to the waiver of the Severance Payment under Section 4(b)(i) hereof; and
 
                              (iv)
 
retiree medical benefit coverage for the Executive Chairman and his spouse, to the extent the Executive Chairman is eligible to receive such benefit coverage upon his retirement under the applicable plans of the Prior Employer as in effect on the Effective Date, in accordance with the terms of such plans as in effect on the Execution Date.
 
5.
   
.
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
 
(a)
 
.  The Term and the Executive Chairmans employment hereunder shall terminate automatically upon the Executive Chairmans death.  The Company shall be entitled to terminate the Term and the Executive Chairmans employment hereunder prior to the third anniversary of the Effective Date because of the Executive Chairmans Disability.   means that the Executive Chairman is disabled within the meaning of the Companys long-term disability policy for salaried employees (or any successor thereto) or, if there is no such policy in effect, that (i) the Executive Chairman has been substantially unable, for 120 business days within a period of 180 consecutive business days, to perform the Executive Chairmans duties under this Agreement, as a result of physical or mental illness or injury, and (ii) a physician selected by the Company and the Executive Chairman or the Executive Chairmans legal representative has determined that the Executive Chairman is totally and permanently disabled.  In the event that the Executive Chairman and the Company cannot agree as to a physician to make such a determination, each shall appoint a physician and those two (2) physicians shall select a third who shall make such determination in writing.  A termination of the Executive Chairmans employment by the Company for Disability shall be communicated to the Executive Chairman by written notice, and shall be effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive Chairman (the ), unless the Executive Chairman returns to full-time performance of the Executive Chairmans duties before the Disability Effective Time.
DEATH OR DISABILITY
Disability
Disability Effective Time
 
8
 
(b)
 
.  The Company may terminate the Term and Executive Chairmans employment hereunder prior to the third anniversary of the Effective Date for Cause or without Cause.
TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY
 
(i)
   
   
  
 is defined as (A) the Executive Chairmans willful and continued failure to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from his incapacity due to physical or mental illness) that has not been cured within thirty (30) calendar days after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive Chairman by the Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that the Executive Chairman has not substantially performed his duties, (B) the willful engaging by the Executive Chairman in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or its affiliates, (C) the Executive Chairmans conviction of (or plea of nolo contendere to) any felony or any other crime involving dishonesty, fraud or moral turpitude, (D) any violation of the Companys policies relating to compliance with applicable laws that has a material adverse effect on the Company or its affiliates or (E) the Executive Chairmans breach of any restrictive covenant set forth in Section 9 hereof.  For purposes of clauses (A) and (B) of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on the Executive Chairmans part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive Chairman not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company.
Cause
 
                              (ii)
 
A termination of the Executive Chairmans employment for Cause or without Cause shall not be effective unless it is accomplished in accordance with the following procedures.  The Board shall give the Executive Chairman written notice () of its intention to terminate the Executive Chairmans employment, which shall (A) in the case of termination for Cause, set forth in detail the specific conduct (including any failure to act) of the Executive Chairman that it considers to constitute Cause and (B) propose the date, time and place (which, in each case, shall be subject to the Executive Chairmans approval; provided that such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) of the Special Board Meeting for Termination.  The  means a meeting of the Board called and held specifically and exclusively for the purpose of considering the Executive Chairmans termination of employment, that takes place not less than forty-five (45) business days after the Executive Chairman receives the Notice of Termination by the Board.  The Board shall provide the Executive Chairman an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard at the Special Board Meeting for Termination.  The Executive Chairmans termination of employment shall be effective when and if a resolution is duly adopted at the Special Board Meeting for Termination stating that, in the good faith opinion of at least 80% of the members of the Board (other than the Executive Chairman), the Executive Chairmans employment should be terminated.
Notice of Termination by the Board
Special Board Meeting for Termination
 
 
9
 
 
 
(c)
 
.  The Executive Chairman may terminate the Term and the Executive Chairmans employment hereunder prior to the third anniversary of the Effective Date for Good Reason or without Good Reason.
GOOD REASON
 
(i)
   
   
  
 
 is defined as, without the Executive Chairmans consent, (A) the assignment to the Executive Chairman of any duties materially inconsistent with those specified in Section 2 or a material adverse alteration in the nature or status of the Executive Chairmans responsibilities specified in Section 2, unless the Company has cured such events within ten (10) business days after the receipt of written notice thereof from the Executive Chairman, (B) a reduction in the Executive Chairmans Annual Base Salary or Annual Bonus Amount opportunity, (C) the Company requiring the Executive Chairman to perform on a regular basis services under this Agreement from an office location other than the location designated in accordance with Section 2(c) hereof or (D) the failure of the Executive Chairman both to be appointed or elected a member of the Board and to be elected its executive chairman.  For the avoidance of doubt, (1) any changes to the Executive Chairmans duties or title, status, base salary, compensation, benefits, perquisites or work location under the Prior Agreement, in each case, as a result of the Executive Chairmans separation from service from the Prior Employer and entry into this Agreement and (2) the Executive Chairman ceasing to be an employee, a member of the Board or the executive chairman of the Board upon the third anniversary of the Effective Date in accordance with Section 2 of this Agreement, in each case, shall not constitute Good Reason for purposes of this Agreement.
Good Reason
 
                             
(ii)
 
A termination of employment by the Executive Chairman for Good Reason shall be effectuated by giving the Company written notice () of the termination, setting forth in reasonable detail the specific conduct of the Company that constitutes Good Reason; provided, however, that no termination by the Executive Chairman shall be treated as a termination for Good Reason unless the Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given within forty-five (45) business days following the date the Executive Chairman first has knowledge of the event or circumstance alleged to constitute Good Reason.  A termination of employment by the Executive Chairman for Good Reason shall be effective fifteen (15) business days following the date when the Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given, unless the event or circumstance constituting Good Reason is remedied by the Company in accordance with the foregoing.
Notice of Termination for Good Reason
 
10
 
                            
(iii)
 
A termination of the Executive Chairmans employment by the Executive Chairman without Good Reason shall be effected by giving the Company thirty (30) calendar days advance written notice of the termination.
 
(d)
 
.  The  means the date of the Executive Chairmans death, the Disability Effective Time or the date on which the termination of the Executive Chairmans employment by the Company for Cause or without Cause or by the Executive Chairman for Good Reason or without Good Reason is effective.
DATE OF TERMINATION
Date of Termination
 
(e)
 
.  The  means the requirement that any amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement under this Agreement be made (i) in accordance with the reimbursement payment date set forth in the applicable provision of this Agreement providing for the reimbursement or (ii) where the applicable provision does not provide for a reimbursement date, thirty (30) calendar days following the date on which the Executive Chairman incurs the expenses, but, in each case, no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the Executive Chairman incurs the related expenses; provided, that in no event shall the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor shall the Executive Chairmans right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
REIMBURSEMENT RULES
Reimbursement Rules
 
6.
   
 
.
OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY UPON TERMINATION
 
(a)
 
.  If the Executive Chairmans employment hereunder terminates for any reason, then (1) the Company shall pay to the Executive Chairman, or his estate, beneficiary or legal representative, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within ten (10) business days after the Date of Termination, (i) any portion of the Executive Chairmans Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination that has not yet been paid, (ii) any earned Annual Bonus Amount, whether for a full or partial fiscal year, that has not yet been paid as of the Date of Termination; , , that, in the case of any earned Annual Bonus Amount for a partial fiscal year that has not been paid as of the Date of Termination, such earned Annual Bonus Amount shall be paid at such time as such Annual Bonus Amount would have otherwise been paid pursuant to this Agreement had the Executive Chairman remained employed by the Company until the last day of such fiscal year, and (iii) any amount needed to reimburse the Executive Chairman for any unreimbursed business expenses properly incurred by the Executive Chairman in accordance with Company policy prior to the Date of Termination and subject to the Reimbursement Rules, (2) the Company shall also pay or provide to the Executive Chairman (or the Executive Chairmans estate, beneficiary, or legal representative, as the case may be) all compensation and benefits payable to the Executive Chairman under the terms of the Companys compensation and benefit plans, programs or arrangements as in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination, in accordance with the terms of such plans, programs or arrangements, (3) the Company shall also pay or provide to the Executive Chairman all amounts and benefits payable pursuant to and in accordance with Section 4 of this Agreement and (4) except as otherwise set forth below in Section 6(b) and Section 6(c), all of the Executive Chairmans then outstanding equity and incentive compensation awards that are granted on or after the Effective Date shall be treated in accordance with the terms of the plans and agreements evidencing such awards.
OBLIGATIONS ON ANY TERMINATION
provided
however
 
 
11
 
(b)
 
.  If the Executive Chairmans employment hereunder terminates by reason of death or Disability, then, in addition to making the payments and benefits in Section 6(a), (1) the Company shall pay to the Executive Chairman, or his estate, beneficiary or legal representative, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash on the Cost Synergy Bonus Payment Date, an amount equal to the higher of (i) the Cost Synergy Bonus Amount to which the Executive Chairman would have been entitled if he had remained continuously employed by the Company through the third anniversary of the Effective Date based on the actual Cost Synergy Level Attained as of such third anniversary, but pro rated based on the number of days in such three-year period that the Executive Chairman was actually employed by the Company and (ii) the Cost Synergy Bonus Amount calculated based on the Cost Synergy Level Attained as of the Date of Termination (instead of the third anniversary of the Effective Date) and without proration, (2) the Executive Chairman shall be entitled to immediate vesting of any Sign-on Options and Annual Equity Awards outstanding as of the Date of Termination (it being understood that the Executive Chairman shall not be entitled to receive additional Annual Equity Awards following such Date of Termination); that the Sign-on Options and any Annual Equity Awards granted as stock options or stock appreciation rights shall remain exercisable until their respective expiration dates (without regard to such termination), and (3) the equity-based awards described in Section 4(b)(iv) and outstanding as of the Date of Termination shall be treated in accordance with the terms of Section 4(b)(iv).
OBLIGATIONS ON A TERMINATION DUE TO DEATH OR DISABILITY
provided
 
(c)
 
.
OTHER THAN FOR CAUSE, DISABILITY, OR DEATH, OR FOR GOOD REASON
 
                             (i)
 
If, during the Term, the Company terminates the Executive Chairmans employment for any reason other than for Cause, death or Disability, or the Executive Chairman terminates his employment for Good Reason, then, in addition to making the payments and providing the benefits pursuant to Section 6(a), subject to Section 6(c)(ii) and Section 6(e), (1) the Company shall pay to the Executive Chairman a lump sum cash amount equal to the Cost Synergy Bonus Amount to which the Executive Chairman would have been entitled if he had remained continuously employed by the Company through the third anniversary of the Effective Date based on the actual Cost Synergy Level Attained as of such third anniversary and without proration, which amount shall be payable on the Cost Synergy Bonus Payment Date; (2) the Executive Chairman shall be entitled to immediate vesting of any Sign-on Options and Annual Equity Awards outstanding as of the Date of Termination (it being understood that the Executive Chairman shall not be entitled to receive additional Annual Equity Awards following such Date of Termination); that the Sign-On Options and any Annual Equity Awards granted as stock options or stock appreciation rights shall remain exercisable until their respective expiration dates (without regard to such termination); (3) the equity-based awards described in Section 4(b)(iv) and outstanding as of the Date of Termination shall be treated in accordance with the terms of Section 4(b)(iv); and (4) the Company shall provide or arrange to provide the Executive Chairman and his eligible dependents, at no greater cost to the Executive Chairman than the cost to the Executive Chairman immediately prior to the Date of Termination, life, disability, accident and health insurance benefits (the ) no less favorable than those provided to the Executive Chairman and his eligible dependents immediately prior to the Date of Termination, which coverage shall be provided during the remainder of the period ending on the third anniversary of the Effective Date (the ), or, if sooner, until he becomes eligible for such benefits from a new employer (and the Executive Chairman shall promptly notify the Company of such eligibility from any new employer), but such coverage shall only be provided to the extent that the Executive Chairman makes a payment to the Company in an amount equal to the monthly premium payments (both the employee and employer portion) required to maintain such coverage on the first day of each calendar month commencing with the first calendar month following the Date of Termination and the Company shall reimburse the Executive Chairman on an after-tax basis for the amount of such premiums, if any, in excess of any employee contributions necessary to maintain such coverage for the Continuation Period and such reimbursement shall comply with the Reimbursement Rules.
provided
Health and Welfare Benefits
Continuation Period
  
12
 
                            
(ii)
 
In the event that, during the Continuation Period, the Executive Chairman shall, without the written consent of the Board, directly or indirectly, as employee, agent, consultant, stockholder, director, manager, co-partner or in any other individual or representative capacity, own, operate, manage, control, engage in, invest in or participate in any manner in, act as consultant or advisor to, render services for (alone or in association with any person, firm, corporation or entity), or otherwise assist any person or entity (other than the Company) that engages in or owns, invests in, operates, manages or controls any venture or enterprise that directly or indirectly engages or proposes to engage in any Competitive Business (as defined below), then the Companys obligations to make any further payments or provide any further benefits under this Section 6(c) shall immediately terminate.   shall mean any line of business that is substantially the same as any line of any operating business which on the Date of Termination the Company was engaged in or conducting and which during the Companys preceding fiscal constituted at least 5% of the gross sales of the Company and its subsidiaries.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive Chairman may become a partner or employee of, or otherwise acquire an interest in, a stock or business brokerage firm, consulting or advisory firm, investment banking firm or similar organization which, as part of its business, trades or invests in securities of Competitive Businesses or which represents or acts as agent or advisor for Competitive Businesses, but only on condition that the Executive Chairman shall not personally render any services in connection with such Competitive Business either directly to such Competitive Business or other persons or to the Executive Chairmans firm in connection therewith.
Competitive Business
 
(d)
 
.
SECTION 409A
 
                              (i)
 
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, if the Executive Chairman is a  (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company) and he experiences a separation from service (including in respect of his position as a member of the Board) after the Effective Date and if any portion of the payments or benefits to be received by the Executive Chairman upon such a separation from service would be considered deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Executive Chairmans separation from service (the ) and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement (the ) during the six-month period immediately following the Executive Chairmans separation from service (such period, the ) shall instead be paid or made available on the earlier of (i) the first business day of the seventh month following the date of the Executive Chairmans separation from service or (ii) Executive Chairmans death (the applicable date, the ).  The Company shall also reimburse the Executive Chairman for the after-tax cost incurred by the Executive Chairman in independently obtaining any Delayed Benefits (the ).  For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(d) is not intended to limit or modify the provisions of Section 2(b) and is instead intended to ensure compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
specified employee
Delayed Payments
Delayed Benefits
Delay Period
Permissible Payment Date
Additional Delayed Payments
 
13
                             
(ii) 
With respect to any amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement under Section 6(a)(1)(iii), such expenses shall be reimbursed by the Company within thirty (30) calendar days following the date on which the Company receives the applicable invoice from the Executive Chairman but in no event later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the Executive Chairman incurs the related expenses; provided, that with respect to reimbursement relating to the Additional Delayed Payments, such reimbursement shall be made on the Permissible Payment Date.  In no event shall the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor shall the Executive Chairmans right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
 
                             
(iii) 
Each payment under this Agreement shall be considered a separate payment and not of a series of payments for purposes of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
 
                             
(iv)
 
Any Delayed Payments shall bear interest at the United States 5-year Treasury Rate plus 2%, which accumulated interest shall be paid to the Executive Chairman on the Permissible Payment Date.
 
(e)
 
.  As a condition of receiving any payments for which the Executive Chairman otherwise qualifies under Section 6(c)(i), the Executive Chairman shall be required to execute and deliver following the Executive Chairmans Date of Termination the mutual release attached hereto as (the ), such Release to be delivered by the Executive Chairman and become irrevocable no later than sixty (60) calendar days following the Executive Chairmans Date of Termination.  If the Release has not been executed, delivered and become irrevocable by the Executive Chairman within the 60-day period following the Date of Termination, all payments under Section 6(c)(i) shall be forfeited.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company does not execute and deliver the Release to the Executive Chairman within two (2) business days following the Executive Chairmans delivery of the Release to the Company, then any requirement for the Executive Chairman to execute, deliver and not revoke the Release as a condition of receiving any payments under Section 6(c)(i) will have no effect, and the Executive Chairman shall be entitled to receive all payments to which the Executive Chairman otherwise is entitled under Section 6(c)(i).
EXECUTION OF RELEASE
Exhibit B
Release
 
14
 
7.           
 
.  Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive Chairmans continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies for which the Executive Chairman may qualify nor, except as otherwise expressly provided under this Agreement, shall anything in this Agreement limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive Chairman may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its affiliated companies.  Vested benefits and other amounts that the Executive Chairman is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract of agreement with, the Company or any of its affiliated companies on or after the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with the terms of each such plan, policy, practice, program, contract or agreement, as the case may be, except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS
 
8.           
.  Except as provided herein, the Companys obligation to make the payments provided for in, and otherwise to perform its obligations under, this Agreement shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action that the Company may have against the Executive Chairman or others.  In no event shall the Executive Chairman be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action to mitigate the amounts payable to the Executive Chairman under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced, regardless of whether the Executive Chairman obtains other employment.
FULL SETTLEMENT
 
9.           
.
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; SOLICITATION
 
(a) 
The Executive Chairman shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company any and all information of the Company and its subsidiaries that is not generally known by others with whom they compete or do business, or with whom they plan to compete or do business and any and all information not readily available to the public, which, if disclosed by the Company or its subsidiaries could reasonably be of benefit to such person or business in competing with or doing business with the Company ().  Confidential Information includes, without limitation, such information relating to the (i) development, research, testing, manufacturing, store operational processes, marketing and financial activities, including costs, profits and sales, of the Company and its subsidiaries, (ii) products and all formulas therefor, (iii) costs, sources of supply, financial performance and strategic plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, (iv) identity and special needs of the customers and suppliers of the Company and its subsidiaries and (v) people and organizations with whom the Company and its subsidiaries have business relationships and those relationships.  Confidential Information also includes comparable information that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have received belonging to others or which was received by the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to an agreement by the Company that it would not be disclosed.  Confidential Information does not include information which (A) is or becomes available to the public generally (other than as a result of the Executive Chairmans unauthorized disclosure), (B) was within the Executive Chairmans possession prior to the date hereof or prior to its being furnished to the Executive Chairman by or on behalf of the Company, provided that the source of such information was not bound by a confidentiality agreement with or other contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation of confidentiality to the Company or any other party with respect to such information, (C) becomes available to the Executive Chairman on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Company or its subsidiaries, provided that such source is not bound by a confidentiality agreement with or other contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation of confidentiality to the Company or any other party with respect to such information, (D) was independently developed the Executive Chairman without reference to the Confidential Information or (E) is required by law to be disclosed.  The Executive Chairman shall promptly return to the Company upon the Date of Termination or at any other time the Company may so request, all notes, records, documents, files and memoranda (including in electronic format and all copies of such materials) constituting Confidential Information he may then possess or have under his control; provided, however, that he may retain his personal correspondence, diaries and other items of a personal nature.
Confidential Information
 
15
(b) 
For a period of two (2) years after the Date of Termination, the Executive Chairman shall not, without the written consent of the Board, directly or indirectly, (i) hire any person who was employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (other than persons employed in a clerical or other non-professional position, including the Executive Chairmans executive assistant) within the six (6) month period preceding the date of such hiring; or (ii) solicit, entice, persuade or induce (in each case, other than pursuant to non-targeted, general advertisements) any person or entity doing business with the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates, to terminate such relationship or to refrain from extending or renewing the same.
 
(c) 
The Executive Chairman agrees that, in addition to any other remedies available to the Company, the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief in the event of any actual or threatened breach of this Section 9 without the necessity of posting any bond, it being acknowledged and agreed that any breach or threatened breach of this Section 9 hereof will cause irreparable injury to the Company and that money damages alone will not provide an adequate remedy to the Company.
 
10.
   
.  Except for the Companys right to seek injunctive relief as set forth in Section 9(c), all disputes arising under, related to, or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled by expedited arbitration conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators sitting in Hartford, Connecticut, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The decision of the arbitrators in that proceeding shall be binding on the Company and the Executive Chairman.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrators in any court having jurisdiction.  Except for the Executive Chairmans rights under Section 4.2(d) of the Prior Agreement for all amounts and benefits payable to him thereunder and as provided in Section 3(f) hereof, each party shall bear its own costs and expenses (including legal fees) in connection with any arbitration proceeding instituted hereunder; provided, however, that if the Executive Chairman prevails in the arbitration, his costs and expenses shall be promptly reimbursed by the Company.  The reimbursement provided for in this Section 10 shall be made as soon as practicable following the resolution of such contest or dispute (whether or not appealed) to the extent the Company received reasonable written evidence of such fees and expenses, but in any event no later than within thirty (30) calendar days following the date on which such consent or dispute (whether or not appealed) is resolved.
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
 
11.
  
.  This Agreement is personal to the Executive Chairman and, without the prior written consent of the Company, shall not be assignable by the Executive Chairman otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive Chairmans legal representatives.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors.  In addition to any obligations imposed by law upon any successor to the Company, the Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession and benefits had taken place.  Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle the Executive Chairman to compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as the Executive Chairman would be entitled to hereunder if the Executive Chairman were to terminate the Executive Chairmans employment for Good Reason.
ASSIGNMENT; SUCCESSORS
 
16
 
12.         
 
.  As a material inducement to the Companys willingness to enter into this Agreement, the Executive Chairman represents to the Company that neither the execution of this Agreement by the Executive Chairman, the employment of the Executive Chairman by the Company nor the performance by the Executive Chairman of his duties hereunder will constitute a violation by the Executive Chairman of any employment, non-competition or other agreement to which the Executive Chairman is a party.  The Company represents and warrants that it is fully authorized and empowered to enter into this Agreement (and those contemplated hereby) and that the performance of its obligations under this Agreement will not violate any agreement between it and any other person, firm or organization.
NO VIOLATIONS
 
13.
  
.
MISCELLANEOUS
 
(a)
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Connecticut, without reference to principles of conflict of laws.  The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
GOVERNING LAW
 
(b)
 
.  All notices and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
NOTICES
 
                              If to the Executive Chairman:
 
                             
At his address on file with the Company
 
                             
With a copy to:
 
                             
Vedder Price P.C.
                              
222 North LaSalle Street
                              Suite 2600
                              Chicago, Illinois 60601
                              Attention:  Robert F. Simon, Esq.
 
17
 
                              If to the Company:
 
                             
The Stanley Works
                             
1000 Stanley Drive
                             
New Britain, Connecticut 06053
                             
Facsimile:  860-827-3911
                             
Attention:  Bruce H. Beatt, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
                             
With a copy to:
 
                             
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
                             
Worldwide Plaza
                              825 Eighth Avenue
                              New York, New York 10019
                              Attention:  Eric W. Hilfers, Esq.
 
or to such other address as either party furnishes to the other in writing in accordance with this paragraph (b) of Section 13.  Notices and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
(c)
 
.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in part, the remaining portion of such provision, together with all other provisions of this Agreement, shall remain valid and enforceable and continue in full force and effect to the fullest extent consistent with law.
SEVERABILITY
 
(d) 
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company may withhold from amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, local and foreign taxes that are required to be withheld by applicable laws or regulations.
WITHHOLDING
 
(e) 
.  The Executive Chairmans or the Companys failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provisions of, or to assert any right under, this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or of any other provision of or right under this Agreement.
WAIVER
 
(f) 
.  The Executive Chairman and the Company acknowledge that this Agreement (together with the Exhibits hereto) constitutes the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede any other prior agreement or other under-standing, whether oral or written, express or implied, between them concerning, related to or otherwise in connection with, the subject matter hereof and that, following the Effective Date, no such agreement or understanding shall be of any further force or effect.  To the extent the terms of this Agreement are inconsistent with any plan, program, practice or other agreement of the Company and applicable to the Executive Chairman as in effect from time to time, the terms of this Agreement shall control unless specifically provided otherwise in writing by reference to this Agreement and signed by the Executive Chairman and the Company.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
 
18
(g) 
.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A of the Code.  This Agreement shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention.  The subject matter of this Agreement involves complex and substantial tax considerations.  The Executive Chairman acknowledges that he has been afforded adequate opportunity to consult and that he has consulted with his own tax adviser with respect to this Agreement.  The Company makes no warranties or representations whatsoever to the Executive Chairman regarding the tax consequences of any item of compensation subject to this Agreement and which is paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
SECTION 409A
 
(h) 
.  To the extent necessary to effectuate the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement which must survive the termination of the Executive Chairmans employment or the termination of this Agreement, including Sections 3(g), 4, 6 and 9, shall so survive.
SURVIVAL OF TERMS
 
(i) 
.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and said counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
COUNTERPARTS
 
(j)
 
.  This Agreement and the provisions contained in it shall not be construed or interpreted for or against any party to this Agreement because that party drafted or caused that partys legal representative to draft any of its provisions.
EACH PARTY THE DRAFTER
 
19
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive Chairman has hereunto set the Executive Chairmans hand and, pursuant to the authorization of its Board, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written, to become effective as of the Execution Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
TO EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cost Synergy Level Attained shall mean the annual run-rate of cost savings achieved by the Company as of the third anniversary of the Effective Date that are attributable to the Merger, which cost savings shall be calculated on a pre-tax basis, applying generally accepted accounting principles and otherwise consistent with the methods of cost synergy measurement used in reports provided to the Board and included in the Companys public filings.  For the avoidance of doubt, such calculation shall not include any revenue synergies.
Cost Synergy Bonus Amount shall be calculated by reference to the Cost Synergy Level Attained and the payout matrix set forth in the table above; that each amount set forth in the payout matrix above shall be increased at an interest rate of 4.5% compounded annually over the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the third anniversary thereof.  To the extent that the Cost Synergy Level Attained is between two values set forth in the table above, the Cost Synergy Bonus Amount shall be determined by linear interpolation between the two corresponding Cost Synergy Bonus Amount values.
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
Nolan D. Archibald (Releasor) for and in consideration of benefits provided pursuant to an Executive Chairman Agreement with The Stanley Works entered into on November 2, 2009 (the Agreement), does for himself and his heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, hereby now and forever, voluntarily, knowingly and willingly release and discharge The Stanley Works and its parents, subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, the Company Group), together with their respective present and former partners, officers, directors, employees and agents, and each of their predecessors, heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns (but as to any partner, officer, director, employee or agent, only in connection with, or in relationship to, his to its capacity as a partner, officer, director, employee or agent of the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates and not in connection with, or in relationship to, his or its personal capacity unrelated to the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates) (collectively, the Company Releasees) from any and all charges, complaints, claims, promises, agreements, controversies, causes of action and demands of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, which against the Company Releasees, jointly or severally, Releasor or Releasors heirs, executors, administrators, successors or assigns ever had or now have by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising from the beginning of time to the time Releasor executes this release arising out of or relating in any way to Releasors employment or director relationship with the Company, or the termination thereof, including but not limited to, any rights or claims arising under any statute or regulation, including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, each as amended, or any other federal, state or local law, regulation, ordinance or common law, or under any policy, agreement, understanding or promise, written or oral, formal or informal, between any Company Releasee and Releasor.  Releasor shall not seek or be entitled to any recovery, in any action or proceeding that may be commenced on Releasors behalf in any way arising out of or relating to the matters released under this Release.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall release any Company Releasee from any claim or damages based on (i) the Releasors rights under the Agreement, (ii) any right or claim that arises after the date the Releasor executes this release, (iii) the Releasors eligibility for indemnification in accordance with applicable laws or the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary) or any applicable insurance policy, with respect to any liability the Releasor incurs or incurred as a director, officer or employee of the Company or any affiliate or subsidiary (including as a trustee, director or officer of any employee benefit plan) or (iv) any right the Releasor may have to obtain contribution as permitted by law in the event of entry of judgment against the Releasor as a result of any act or failure to act for which the Releasor and the Company or any affiliate or subsidiary are held jointly liable.
 
(b) 
Releasor has been advised to consult with an attorney of Releasors choice prior to signing this release, has done so and enters into this release freely and voluntarily.
 
(c) 
Releasor has had in excess of twenty-one (21) calendar days to consider the terms of this release.  Once Releasor has signed this release, Releasor has seven (7) additional days to revoke Releasors consent and may do so by writing to the Company as provided in Section 13(b) of the Agreement.  Releasors release shall not be effective, and no payments or benefits shall be due under Section 6(c) of the Agreement, until the eighth day after Releasor shall have executed this release (the Revocation Date) and returned it to the Company, assuming that Releasor has not revoked Releasors consent to this release prior to the Revocation Date.
 
 
2
 
(d) 
The Company, for and in consideration of the Executive Chairmans covenants under the Agreement, on behalf of itself and the other members of the Company Group and any other Company Releasee, their respective successors and assigns, and any and all other persons claiming through any member of the Company Group or such other Company Releasee, and each of them, does hereby now and forever, voluntarily, knowingly and willingly release and discharge, the Releasor and dependents, administrators, agents, executors, successors, assigns, and heirs, from any and all charges, complaints, claims, promises, agreements, controversies, causes of action and demands of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, which against the Releasor, jointly or severally, the Company and each other member of the Company Group or any other Company Releasee, their respective successors and assigns, and any and all other persons claiming through any member of the Company Group or such other Company Releasee ever had or now have by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising from the beginning of time to the time the Company executes this release arising out of or relating to the Executive Chairmans employment or director relationship with the Company or the termination thereof, including, but not limited to, any claim, demand, obligation, liability or cause of action arising under any federal, state or local employment law or ordinance, tort, contract or breach of public policy theory or alleged violation of any other legal obligation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall release the Releasor and his dependents, administrators, agents, executors, successors, assigns, and heirs, (i) in respect of the Companys rights under the Agreement, or (ii) from any claims or damages based on any right or claim that arises after the date the Company executes this release.
 
(e)
 
The Companys release shall become effective on the Revocation Date, assuming that Releasor shall have executed this release and returned it to the Company and has not revoked Releasors consent to this release prior to the Revocation Date.
 
(f)
 
In the event that any one or more of the provisions of this release shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remainder of this release shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
 
3
 
This release shall be governed by the law of the State of Connecticut without reference to its choice of law rules.
 
 
Signed as of this ____ day of _____________.
Signed as of this ____ day of _____________.
 
 
 4


