FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20100127091825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 27, 2010 The Stanley Works issued a press release announcing fourth quarter and full year 2009 results and providing full year 2010 guidance.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not applicable (b) Not applicable (c) Not applicable (d) Exhibits 99.1 Press release dated January 27, 2010. 99.1 Financial statements contained in The Stanley Works' January 27, 2010 press release.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
The Stanley Works Reports 4Q 2009 and FY 2009 Results
New Britain, Connecticut, January 27
th
, 2010
...
The Stanley Works today announced fourth quarter and full year 2009 financial results. Highlights are summarized below:
(NYSE: SWK)
4Q'09 Key Points:
John F. Lundgren, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented, "I am pleased with our performance throughout a challenging year as we have emerged in an even stronger competitive position than we started. We posted a year-over-year EPS gain while achieving record gross margins of 40.4% and a record 7.9 working capital turns despite a 20% market-driven unit volume decline. Concurrently, we have made substantial progress in planning and preparing for the integration of Black & Decker, a transformative transaction that will support the continued expansion of our global business platform.
"Through the diligence and the efforts of our employees throughout 2009 combined with a proven integration process and the skill sets of the Black & Decker employees who will join the combined company upon closing, we are laying the groundwork to further increase long-term shareholder value. We remain confident in our ability to execute against our plans and achieve our objectives."
4Q'09 Segment Results:
Full Year 2009 Key Points & Segment Results:
James M. Loree, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, stated: "We were successful in advancing key strategic initiatives throughout 2009, including fully integrating hand tools with Bostitch, establishing a Global Industrial and Automotive Repair platform and announcing the merger of Stanley and Black & Decker. At the same time, we further embedded SFS into our businesses to yield an additional $226 million of free cash flow and improve customer service levels. Importantly, during 2009 we capitalized on the strengths of our company to enhance both our competitive positioning and our growth prospects. For 2010, our focus has now shifted to integrating Black & Decker effectively and achieving the significant cost synergies and revenue growth opportunities inherent in our pending combination.
Black & Decker Transaction Update
The transaction is progressing as planned, with the close anticipated toward the end of 1Q'10 or the beginning of 2Q'10. As previously announced, on December 29, 2009, the Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust review period for the combination expired, satisfying one of the conditions to the closing of the transaction.
Until the merger closes, both companies will continue to operate independently. The transaction is subject to approval by The Stanley Works and Black & Decker shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals including clearance by the European Commission under the EC Merger Regulation and certain other foreign jurisdictions.
2010 Outlook
On a standalone basis (i.e. excludes all impacts of Black & Decker transaction), Stanley expects 2010 EPS in the range of $3.00  $3.25. This full year 2010 guidance range is based on the following assumptions:
The company expects free cash flow for 2010 to be approximately $300 to $350 million which assumes a modest improvement in working capital turns from 2009 year-end levels.
Donald Allan Jr., Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, commented, "Despite the headwinds in 2009, we are very pleased we were able to achieve  and in some cases exceed  many of our financial objectives. We are projecting very modest market-driven improvement but our cost base has been properly adjusted for this potential environment and we are well-prepared if a stronger rebound occurs. While this coming year will bring a new set of challenges, we are positioned to react accordingly as the year progresses. Additionally, we remain committed to the financial guidance we provided with respect to the combined company following the completion of the combination of Stanley and Black & Decker."
The company will host a conference call with investors at 10:00am ET, Wednesday, January 27th 2010 to discuss quarterly results. The slides that will accompany the conference call will be available prior to the call on www.stanleyworks.com. The call will be accessible by telephone at (877) 242-3653 and from outside the U.S. at (763) 416-6917 with the conference identification number ; also, via the Internet at www.stanleyworks.com on the "Investors" section of the web site. To listen, please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay will also be available two hours after the call and can be accessed at (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 by entering the conference identification number . The replay will also be available as a podcast within 24 hours and can be accessed on our website and via iTunes.
49791161
49791161
The Stanley Works, an S&P 500 company, is a diversified worldwide supplier of tools and engineered solutions for professional, industrial, construction and do-it-yourself use, and security solutions for commercial applications. More information about The Stanley Works can be found at http://www.stanleyworks.com.
(860) 827-3833
kwhite@stanleyworks.com
Operating margin is defined as sales less cost of sales less SG&A. Management uses operating margin and its percentage of net sales as key measures to assess the performance of the company as a whole, as well as the related measures at the segment level.
Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital and capitalized software expenditures. Management considers free cash flow an important indicator of its liquidity, as well as its ability to fund future growth and to provide a return to the shareowners. In 2008, free cash flow also excludes the income taxes paid on the CST/berger divestiture due to the fact the taxes are non-recurring and the directly related gross cash proceeds are classified in investing cash flows. Free cash flow does not include deductions for mandatory debt service, other borrowing activity, discretionary dividends on the Company's common stock and business acquisitions, among other items. Organic sales growth is defined as total sales growth less sales of companies acquired in the past twelve months and less foreign currency impacts. The company believes these are important measures of its liquidity, of its ability to fund future growth and to provide a return to the shareowners, and of its sales performance.
Statements in this press release that are not historical, including but not limited to those regarding the Company's ability to: (i) complete the pending combination with Black & Decker; (ii) complete the pending combination with Black & Decker toward the end of first quarter 2010 or beginning of second quarter 2010; (iii) achieve the financial guidance previously provided with respect to the combined company following the completion of the pending combination with Black & Decker; (iv) expand and diversify the Company's global business platform, increase long-term shareholder value and achieve significant synergies and revenue growth opportunities as a result of the pending Black & Decker transaction; (v) generate full year 2010 EPS in the range of $3.00  3.25 per diluted share; (vi) modestly improve working capital turns from 2009 year-end levels; (vii) generate free cash flow of approximately $300  $350 million for 2010; (viii) react accordingly to a stronger than expected economic rebound or other challenges in 2010 (collectively, the "Results"); are "forward looking statements" and subject to risk and uncertainty.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results as described above is based on current expectations and involves inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors listed below and other factors that could delay, divert, or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. In addition to the risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in this press release, the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements include, without limitation, those set forth under Item 1A Risk Factors of the Company's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K or, with respect to Results that relate to the pending combination with Black & Decker, Black & Decker's Annual Report on Form 10-K, and any material changes thereto set forth in any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, those contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 related to the pending combination with Black & Decker, those contained in the Company's or, with respect to Results that relate to the pending combination with Black & Decker, Black & Decker's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and those set forth below.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results is dependent, or based, upon: (i) the satisfaction of the conditions to closing the pending combination with Black & Decker, including, satisfactory resolution of any shareholder litigation, approval of the merger by Black & Decker shareholders, the approval of the issuance of Stanley common stock and certain amendments to the Company's certificate of incorporation by the Company's shareholders, and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals including clearance by the European Commission under the EC Merger Regulation and certain other foreign jurisdictions; (ii) the Company's ability to effective execute integration plans after the completion of the combination with Black & Decker; (iii) the Company's ability to achieve the synergies, capitalize on growth opportunities and achieve the anticipated results of a combination with Black & Decker; (iv) generating net sales increase between 2%-4% from 2009 levels; (v) the $0.34 gain on the extinguishment of debt the Company realized in 2Q'09 and the $0.22 charge per share related to the Black & Decker transaction costs in 4Q'09 not reoccurring in 2010; (vi) the resulting dilutive impact of $0.17 per share relating to the higher share count primarily associated with the previously announced issuance of approximately 6 million shares of common stock in May 2010 in connection with the Company's equity unit hybrid instrument; (vii) the dilutive impact of approximately $0.20  $0.25 per share related to an increased tax rate; (viii) the Company realizing the positive carryover effect of approximately $75 million related to cost actions taken in 2009 (partially offset by approximately $25 million of additional brand and Security related investments); (ix) restructuring, impairment and related charges remaining relatively flat to those taken in 2009; (x) a net zero impact from price and inflation based on current commodity levels; (xi) successful integration of businesses and acquisitions; (xii) the continued acceptance of technologies used in the Company's products and services; (xiii) the Company's ability to manage existing Sonitrol franchisee and Mac Tools distributor relationships; (xiv) the Company's ability to minimize costs associated with any sale or discontinuance of a business or product line, including any severance, restructuring, legal or other costs; (xv) the proceeds realized with respect to any business or product line disposals; (xvi) the extent of any asset impairments with respect to any businesses or product lines that are sold or discontinued; (xi)  the success of the Company's efforts to manage freight costs, steel and other commodity costs; (xvii) the Company's ability to sustain or increase prices in order to, among other things, offset or mitigate the impact of steel, freight, energy, non-ferrous commodity and other commodity costs and any inflation increases; (xviii) the Company's ability to generate free cash flow and maintain a strong debt to capital ratio; (xix) the Company's ability to identify and effectively execute productivity improvements and cost reductions, while minimizing any associated restructuring charges; (xx) the Company's ability to obtain favorable settlement of routine tax audits; (xxi) the ability of the Company to generate earnings sufficient to realize future income tax benefits during periods when temporary differences become deductible; (xxii) the continued ability of the Company to access credit markets under satisfactory terms; and (xxiii) the Company's ability to negotiate satisfactory payment terms under which the Company buys and sells goods, services, materials and products.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results is also dependent upon: (i) the success of the Company's marketing and sales efforts; (ii) the ability of the Company to maintain or improve production rates in the Company's manufacturing facilities, respond to significant changes in product demand and fulfill demand for new and existing products; (iii) the Company's ability to continue improvements in working capital through effective management of accounts receivable and inventory levels; (iv) the ability to continue successfully managing and defending claims and litigation; (v) the success of the Company's efforts to mitigate any cost increases generated by, for example, increases in the cost of energy or significant Chinese Renminbi or other currency appreciation; (vi) the geographic distribution of the Company's earnings; and (vii) the commitment to and success of the Stanley Fulfillment System.
The Company's ability to achieve the Results will also be affected by external factors. These external factors include: pricing pressure and other changes within competitive markets; the continued consolidation of customers particularly in consumer channels; inventory management pressures on the Company's customers; the impact the tightened credit markets may have on the Company or its customers or suppliers; the extent to which the Company has to write off accounts receivable or assets or experiences supply chain disruptions in connection with bankruptcy filings by customers or suppliers; increasing competition; changes in laws, regulations and policies that affect the Company, including, but not limited to trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies and laws; the timing and extent of any inflation or deflation in 2010; currency exchange fluctuations; the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange and interest rates on the competitiveness of products and the Company's debt program; the strength of the U.S. and European economies; the extent to which world-wide markets associated with homebuilding and remodeling stabilize and rebound; the impact of events that cause or may cause disruption in the Company's manufacturing, distribution and sales networks such as war, terrorist activities, and political unrest; and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, the extent and duration of the current recession in the US economy. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof.

Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital and capitalized software expenditures. Management considers free cash flow an important indicator of its liquidity, as well as its ability to fund future growth and to provide a return to the shareowners. In 2008, free cash flow also excludes the income taxes paid on the CST/berger divestiture due to the fact the taxes are non-recurring and the directly related gross cash proceeds are classified in investing cash flows. Free cash flow does not include deductions for mandatory debt service, other borrowing activity, discretionary dividends on the Company's common stock and business acquisitions, among other items.
The change in working capital is comprised of current accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable.


