FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20110216160421.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Amendment to Bylaws On February 15, 2011, the Company amended its Bylaws. The primary purpose of the amendment, which did not require shareholder approval, was to implement a majority voting policy, as permitted under Connecticut law, for the election of directors. The following summary of the amendment to the Company's Bylaws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment filed as Exhibit 3.ii to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Section 1, Article III of the Bylaws was amended to add language providing that, commencing with the annual meeting of shareholders in 2012, in order to be elected, nominees must still receive a plurality of the votes, however, if a nominee in an uncontested election receives more votes "against" than "for" election, the term of that director will end on the earlier of (1) ninety (90) days or (2) the date the Board selects a successor. Subject to the ability of the Board (excluding such nominee) to select any qualified individual to fill the vacancy (including, subject to the Board's fiduciary duties to the Company, the nominee in question), a nominee who is elected but receives more votes against than for election will not serve beyond ninety (90) days.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 3.ii. Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. Bylaw Amendment
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Section 1 of Article III of the Bylaws of the Company is hereby amended to add the following provision at the end of that section
1A. (a) Commencing with the Annual Meeting of the shareholders occurring in 2012 and for each subsequent election of directors thereafter, (i) each vote entitled to be cast may be voted for or against up to that number of candidates that is equal to the number of Directors to be elected, or a shareholder may indicate an abstention, but without cumulating the votes; (ii) to be elected, a nominee must have received a plurality of the votes cast by holders of shares entitled to vote in the election at a meeting at which a quorum is present, provided a nominee who is elected but receives more votes against than for election shall serve as a Director for a term that shall terminate on the date that is the earlier of (A) ninety days from the date on which the voting results are determined, or (B) the date on which an individual is selected by the Board of Directors to fill the office held by such Director, which selection shall be deemed to constitute the filling of a vacancy by the Board. Subject to subsection (a)(iii), a nominee who is elected but receives more votes against than for election shall not serve as a Director beyond the ninety-day period specified in subsection (a)(ii)(A); and (iii) the Board of Directors may select any qualified individual to fill the office held by a Director who received more votes against than for election.
Election of Directors
.
(b) Subsection (a) does not apply to an election of Directors if at the expiration of the notice period specified in Article II, Section 3 of these Bylaws, there are more candidates for election than the number of Directors to be elected, one or more of whom are properly proposed by shareholders. An individual shall not be considered a candidate for purposes of this subsection if the Board of Directors determines before the notice of meeting is given that such individual's candidacy does not create a bona fide election contest.


