FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20110902164409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 2, 2011 Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. issued a press release in Sweden and the United States announcing that all conditions to its pending tender offer for all shares and warrants in Niscayah AB ("Niscayah") (the "Offer") have been satisfied, that the acceptance period for the Offer has been extended in order to provide shareholders and/or warrant holders that have not yet submitted their acceptances the opportunity to accept the Offer, and that its indirect wholly-owned Swedish subsidiary, SBD Holding AB ("SBD Holding"), has purchased shares in Niscayah outside of the Offer. The English language version of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Following SBD Holding's purchases of shares outside of the Offer, on September 2, 2011 Stanley Black & Decker filed a statement with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. A copy of that statement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Not applicable.
(b) Not applicable.
(c) Not applicable.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 The English language version of the Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. press release dated September 2, 2011 , furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 hereof.
99.2 A statement filed with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority on September 2, 2011, furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 hereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
This press release may not be distributed, directly or indirectly, into or in, Australia, Japan, Canada, South Africa, Hong Kong or New Zealand. The Offer is not being made to (and acceptances will not be accepted from) persons in those countries or elsewhere where their participation requires further documentation, filing or other measures in addition to those required by Swedish law.
Stanley Black & Decker Announces All Conditions For Completion Of Its Recommended All-Cash Offer To Acquire Niscayah Have Been Satisfied And The Offer Will Be Completed
New Britain, Connecticut, September 2, 2011
 
 
 
 
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. (NYSE: SWK) ("Stanley Black & Decker") announced today that all of the conditions for completion of its recommended all-cash offer, through a tender offer by its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary SBD Holding AB ("SBD Holding"), to acquire all shares and warrants in Niscayah Group AB (publ) (OMX: NISC) ("Niscayah"), for SEK 18.00 per share and SEK 0.05 per warrant in cash (the "Offer"), have been satisfied. Accordingly, SBD Holding has declared the Offer unconditional in all respects and will complete the Offer.
For shareholders and/or warrant holders that have accepted the Offer during the original acceptance period ending September 1, 2011, settlement is expected to commence, as previously communicated, on September 9, 2011.
In order to provide shareholders and/or warrant holders that have not yet submitted their acceptances the opportunity to accept the Offer, SBD Holding extended the acceptance period up to and including September 23, 2011 at 5:00 p.m. (CET) / 11:00 a.m. (ET). For shareholders and/or warrant holders that accept the Offer during the extended acceptance period settlement is expected to occur on or around September 30, 2011. SBD Holding reserves the right to further extend the acceptance period, as well as the right to postpone the settlement date.
The shares tendered in the Offer, together with the shares acquired by SBD Holding through purchases outside of the Offer, represent approximately 94.9% of the outstanding shares and approximately 96.4% of the total number of votes in Niscayah (on a fully diluted basis).
1
Upon expiration of the acceptance period on September 1, 2011, the Offer had been accepted by shareholders and/or warrant holders representing 274,264,060 shares and 2,665,900 warrants, representing approximately 74.8% of the outstanding shares and approximately 82.2% of the total votes in Niscayah (on a fully diluted basis).
2
When the Offer was announced on June 27, 2011, neither Stanley Black & Decker, nor SBD Holding owned or controlled any shares or warrants in Niscayah. Following the announcement of the Offer, SBD Holding has acquired in total 74,248,433 class B shares of Niscayah, representing approximately 20.1% of the outstanding shares and approximately 14.2% of the total number of votes in Niscayah (on a fully diluted basis)
3
, at prices not exceeding SEK 18.00, through purchases outside of the Offer.
4
As SBD Holding holds more than 90% of the shares of Niscayah, SBD Holding intends to initiate a compulsory acquisition procedure under the Swedish Companies Act to acquire all remaining shares in Niscayah. SBD Holding also intends to act to have the class B share in Niscayah delisted from NASDAQ OMX Stockholm.
Stanley Black & Decker, an S&P 500 company, is a diversified global provider of hand tools, power tools and related accessories, mechanical access solutions and electronic security solutions, engineered fastening systems, infrastructure solutions and more. Learn more at .
www.stanleyblackanddecker.com
The information in this press release was submitted for publication on September 2, 2011 at 7 p.m. (CET) / 1 p.m. (ET).
Contacts (United States):
Kate White Vanek
Vice President, Investor Relations, Stanley Black & Decker
(860) 827-3833
kate.vanek@sbdinc.com
Tim Perra
Director, Global Communications, Stanley Black & Decker
(860) 826-3260
tim.perra@sbdinc.com
 
Sard Verbinnen & Co
David Reno/Brooke Gordon
(212) 687-8080
Contact (Sweden):
JKL
Erik Nilsson
+ 46 738 394 118
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Stanley Black & Decker makes forward-looking statements in this press release which represent its expectations or beliefs about future events and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are identifiable by words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "may" and other similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements made in this press release, include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the date for settlement and the expiration of the acceptance period for the Offer.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future events and involve risks, uncertainties and other known and unknown factors that may cause actual results and performance to be materially different from any future results or performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the failure to consummate, or a delay in the consummation of, the transaction for various reasons.
Forward-looking statements made herein are also subject to risks and uncertainties, described in: Stanley's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2011; and other filings Stanley Black & Decker makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, actual results could differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements, and therefore you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. Stanley Black & Decker makes no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
* This information is not obligatory.
 
 
Financial Instruments Trading Act (1991:980)
  When voting by proxy, the former holders of voting rights are
 
  Chain of controlling companies
 
  Total group holding on the threshold date for flagging
 
  Identity of the holder
 
  Appendix 1 (a)
  Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
  Appendix 1 (b)
  Niscayah Group AB (publ)
  Appendix 1 (c)
 
  Appendix 1 (d)
  investorrelations@swkbdk.com
  Appendix 1 (e)
  Contact person for the filing:
  Richard Ramberg, Gernandt & Danielsson Advokatbyr KB, Box 5747, SE-
  114 87 Stockholm, 08-670 66 38, richard.ramberg@gda.se


