FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20111018100524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 17, 2011, Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. issued a press release announcing third quarter 2011 results.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not applicable
(b) Not applicable
(c) Not applicable
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Stanley Black & Decker Reports 3Q 2011 Results
... Stanley Black & Decker today announced third quarter 2011 financial results.
New Britain, Connecticut, October 17
th
, 2011
(NYSE: SWK)
3Q'11 Key Points:
 
Stanley Black & Decker's President and CEO, John F. Lundgren, commented, "We are encouraged with the results our businesses continue to achieve in the midst of the current macroeconomic backdrop. With little to no market growth in many of the industries and developed regions where we have a presence, it is successful new product introductions and ongoing value propositions that have resulted in the market share gains crucial to our company's success. Our revenues within the emerging markets continue to grow at a high rate, and with operating margins above line average, are providing a solid contribution to the company's bottom line as well. Our strong cash position allowed us to acquire $350 million of our stock during the quarter, which was $100 million more than previously communicated, as the volatile stock market presented an incremental opportunity to execute upon this additional element of shareholder value creation."
3Q'11 Segment Results
 
 
 
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, James M. Loree, commented, "Our ability to drive above market organic growth was clear again during the quarter. Professional Power Tools grew over 20% during the quarter in a market that was subdued, due to the successful launches of our 12V and 20V DeWalt lithium-ion line. (3Q'10 and 3Q'11, respectively). Engineered Fastening grew 14% organically, almost 3 times as much as global light vehicle production, as new products and increased platform penetration across the globe drove volumes. Within Security, the North American focused Kwikset security hardware grew 10% with no help from residential and commercial construction markets. Separately, the integration of Niscayah which commenced during the quarter, has proceeded as planned during the first four weeks and we continue to feel confident in our ability to deliver the previously communicated $80 million in cost synergies by 2013."
Merger And Acquisition Related Charges
Total charges related to M&A in 3Q'11 were $95 million. Gross margin includes $15 million predominantly associated with facility closure related charges and M&A related costs recorded in SG&A, primarily for integration related administrative costs and consulting fees, which were $22 million. Approximately $18 million of these charges are included in segment results with the remainder in unallocated corporate overhead. Included in Other, net is $34 million primarily related to Niscayah. Merger-related restructuring charges, associated with planned facility closures and the severance of employees, totaled $24 million in 3Q'11.
 
2011 Outlook & 2012 Commentary
The company is guiding 4Q'11 EPS to be approximately $1.30, excluding M&A related charges. This brings full year EPS to the low end of the previously communicated 2011 EPS guidance of $5.15 - $5.40. Embedded in this is a forecast for approximately 3.5% organic revenue growth for the full year, down from the previous range of 4-5%. This is largely driven by a retraction in unit volumes within US hand tools, as well as modest softness in Europe, except for the Engineered Fastening business.
Total full year revenue growth will approximate 12.5%. Revenue from acquisitions combined with the impact from currency is anticipated to be 9%.
In addition:
These items, netted with the negative impact from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates (principally the Euro) have had on the company's earnings, result in a small positive impact to EPS.
Including all previously communicated M&A related charges, updated to include the charges related to Niscayah, the company expects EPS to approximate $3.75 to $3.98 in 2011.
 
The company is reiterating its 2011 free cash flow guidance, excluding M&A related payments, of $1.1 billion.
Donald Allan Jr, Senior Vice President and CFO, commented, "As we look forward to 2012, we have a high degree of confidence that, even if current economic conditions persist, we have sufficient company-specific tailwinds to deliver EPS at or near $6.00 and cash flow at or above $1.1 billion before M&A expenses. These tailwinds include sequential accretion from the on track Black & Decker integration, meaningful accretion from the recently completed Niscayah acquisition, strong new product and share gain momentum across most of the company and a solid productivity outlook in conjunction with somewhat abating inflation. In short, we believe that Stanley Black & Decker is positioned to deliver a positive differentiated performance in 2012."
The company will host a conference call with investors Tuesday, October 18th, at 10:00 am ET. A slide presentation which will accompany the call will be available at and will remain available after the call.
www.stanleyblackanddecker.com
The call will be accessible by telephone at (800) 447-0521 and from outside the U.S. at (847) 413-3238; also, via the Internet at . To access, please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio
www.stanleyblackanddecker.com
 
software. Please use the conference identification number A replay will also be available two hours after the call and can be accessed at (888) 843-7419 or (630) 652-3042 using the passcode 30872542#.
30872542.
Stanley Black & Decker, an S&P 500 company, is a diversified global provider of hand tools, power tools and related accessories, mechanical access solutions and electronic security solutions, engineered fastening systems, and more. Learn more at .
www.stanleyblackanddecker.com
Various financial measures in this press release are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). In addition, certain financial measures in the appendix to this press release are non-GAAP, or normalized, financial measures that exclude M&A-related items. Management uses these non-GAAP, or normalized, financial measures to assess current performance and establish operational goals, and believes that these measures assist investors in evaluating the results of our business and analyzing the underlying trends in our business over time. Investors should consider these non-GAAP normalized financial measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or as superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of the GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-GAAP financial measures, and an explanation of our use of these non-GAAP normalized financial measures and of the excluded items, are included in the appendix to this press release.
Operating margin is defined as sales less cost of sales less SG&A. Management uses operating margin and its percentage of net sales as key measures to assess the performance of the company as a whole, as well as the related measures at the segment level.
Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital and software expenditures. Management considers free cash flow an important indicator of its liquidity, as well as its ability to fund future growth and to provide a return to the shareowners. Free cash flow does not include deductions for mandatory debt service, other borrowing activity, discretionary dividends on the Company's common stock and business acquisitions, among other items. Normalized cash flow and free cash flow, as reconciled from the associated GAAP measures in Appendix A, are considered meaningful pro forma metrics to aid the understanding of the company's cash flow performance aside from the material impact of the M&A-related payments and charges.
The core tax rate reflects the tax rate aside from M&A related charges. The normalized tax rate further excludes the discrete tax benefit pertaining to favorable tax settlements. Management uses these tax rates to aid in the analysis of the income tax provision aside from the effects of M&A related charges and certain significant tax benefits that may not reoccur.
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical, including but not limited to those regarding the Company's ability to: (i) achieve $80 million in cost synergies related to the Niscayah acquisition by 2013; (ii) excluding merger and acquisition related ("M&A") charges, achieve fourth quarter 2011 EPS of approximately $1.30 and full year 2011 diluted EPS at the low end of the previously communicated 2011 EPS guidance of $5.15-$5.40, and including all acquisition and Black & Decker transaction related M&A charges, updated to include such charges related to Niscayah, in the range of $3.75-$3.98 for 2011; (iii) achieve total revenue growth for 2011 of 12.5% with revenue from acquisitions and impact from foreign exchange to be approximately 9%; (iv) achieve a full normalized tax rate in a range of approximately 24%; (v) obtain $1.1 billion in free cash flow for 2011, excluding M&A related charges and payments; and (vi) achieve 2012 EPS of close to $6.00 and free cash flow at or above $1.1B (collectively, the "Results"); are "forward looking statements" and subject to risk and uncertainty.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results as described above is based on current expectations and involves inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors listed below and other factors that could delay, divert, or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. In addition to the risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in this press release, the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements include, without limitation, those set forth under Item 1A Risk Factors of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and any material changes thereto set forth in any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or those contained in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and those set forth below.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results is dependent, or based, upon: (i) the Company's ability to execute integration and achieve the synergies, capitalize on growth opportunities and achieve the anticipated results of the combination with Black & Decker and the acquisition of Niscayah, with total M&A related charges in 2011 being in the range of $260-$300 million; (ii) the Company's ability to achieve 3.5% organic revenue growth for the full year 2011; (iii) there being approximately 167 million shares outstanding at year end 2011, with the full year 2011 average shares outstanding being approximately 170 million; (iv) achieving a core tax rate in the range of 17-18%; (v) the Company's success in launching new products and growing its presence in emerging markets; (vi) the Company's ability to implement price recovery for 2011; (vii) successful identification, completion and integration of acquisitions, as well integration of existing businesses; (viii) the continued acceptance of technologies used in the Company's products and services; (ix) the Company's ability to manage existing Sonitrol franchisee and Mac Tools relationships; (x) the Company's ability to minimize costs associated with any sale or discontinuance of a business or product line, including any severance, restructuring, legal or other costs; (xi) the proceeds realized with respect to any business or product line disposals; (xii) the extent of any asset impairments with respect to any businesses or product lines that are sold or discontinued; (xiii) the success of the Company's efforts to manage freight costs, steel and other commodity costs as well as capital expenditures; (xiv) the Company's ability to sustain or increase prices in order to, among other things, offset or mitigate the impact of steel, freight, energy, non-ferrous commodity and other commodity costs and any inflation increases; (xv) the Company's ability to generate free cash flow and maintain a strong debt to capital ratio; (xvi) the Company's ability to identify and effectively execute productivity improvements and cost reductions, while minimizing any associated restructuring charges; (xvii) the Company's ability to obtain favorable settlement of routine tax audits; (xviii) the ability of the Company to generate earnings sufficient to realize future income tax benefits during periods when temporary differences become deductible; (xix) the continued ability of the Company to access credit markets under satisfactory terms;(xx) the Company's ability to negotiate satisfactory payment terms under which the Company buys and sells goods, services, materials and products; and (xxi) the Company's ability to successfully develop, market and achieve sales from new products and services.
The Company's ability to deliver the Results is also dependent upon: (i) the success of the Company's marketing and sales efforts, including the ability to develop and market new and innovative products; (ii) the ability of the Company to maintain or improve production rates in the Company's manufacturing facilities, respond to significant changes in product demand and fulfill demand for new and existing products; (iii) the Company's ability to continue improvements in working capital through effective management of accounts receivable and inventory levels; (iv) the ability to continue successfully managing and defending claims and litigation; (v) the success of the Company's efforts to mitigate any cost increases generated by, for example, increases in the cost of energy or significant Chinese Renminbi or other currency appreciation; (vi) the geographic distribution of the Company's earnings; and (vii) the commitment to and success of the Stanley Fulfillment System.
The Company's ability to achieve the Results will also be affected by external factors. These external factors include: the continued economic growth of emerging markets, particularly Latin America; pricing pressure and other changes within competitive markets; the continued consolidation of customers particularly in consumer channels; inventory management pressures on the Company's customers; the impact the tightened credit markets may have on the Company or its customers or suppliers; the extent to which the Company has to write off accounts receivable or assets or experiences supply chain disruptions in connection with bankruptcy filings by customers or suppliers; increasing competition; changes in laws, regulations and policies that affect the Company, including, but not limited to trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies and laws; the timing and extent of any inflation or deflation; currency exchange fluctuations; the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange and interest rates on the competitiveness of products and the Company's debt program; the strength of the U.S. and European economies; the extent to which world-wide markets associated with homebuilding and remodeling stabilize and rebound; the impact of events that cause or may cause disruption in the Company's manufacturing, distribution and sales networks such as war, terrorist activities, and political unrest; and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the Company operates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof.
 
 
 
The change in working capital is comprised of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


