FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20120420171254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation
As described in Item 5.07 of this Current Report, at the annual meeting of shareholders (the "Annual Meeting" ) of Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. (the "Company"), our shareholders approved an amendment to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Board of Directors (the "Board"). This amendment became effective upon the filing of a Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Amendment") with the Secretary of the State of Connecticut on April 17, 2012. Accordingly, the terms of all existing directors will expire at the 2013 Annual Meeting and all nominees for director at that meeting and at each subsequent Annual Meeting will stand for election to one-year terms. The above summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Certificate of Amendment, which is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Amendment to Bylaws
The Board approved an amendment of Section 1, Article III of the Company's Bylaws to reflect the declassification of the Board, which became effective as of the filing of the Certificate of Amendment with the Secretary of the State of Connecticut.
The above summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amended section, which is contained in the Amended and Restated Bylaws attached as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The Company's Annual Meeting was held on April 17, 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Stanley Black & Decker, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the Connecticut Business Corporation Act (the ""), does hereby certify:
CBCA
The Restated Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended by deleting Section 4 and replacing it with a new Section 4 as set forth on Exhibit A hereto.
2. 
The amendment was approved by the shareholders in the manner required by Sections 33-600 to 33-998 of the Connecticut General Statutes, and by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
3. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be duly executed this 17th day of April, 2012.
Section 4. The stock, property and affairs of said corporation shall be managed by a Board consisting of not less than nine nor more than eighteen directors, the exact number to be determined by the Board of Directors from time to time. Until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Such classes shall be as nearly equal in number as the then total number of directors constituting the entire Board permits. Commencing with the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the foregoing classification of directors shall cease and the terms of all directors then in office shall expire. At the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and at each annual meeting of shareholders thereafter, each nominee for director shall stand for election to a one-year term expiring at the next annual meeting of shareholders. Despite the expiration of a director's term, such director shall continue to serve until either the director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or there is a decrease in the number of directors. The directors may increase the number of directorships by the concurring vote of directors holding a majority of the directorships. Any vacancy on the Board that is created by an increase in the number of directors may be filled for the unexpired term by the concurring vote of directors holding a majority of the directorships, which number of directorships shall be the number prior to the vote on the increase. Any other vacancy which occurs on the Board may be filled for the unexpired term by the concurring vote of a majority of the remaining directors in office, though such remaining directors are less than a quorum, and though such majority is less than a quorum, or by action of the sole remaining director in office. No reduction of the number of directorships shall remove or shorten the term of any director in office.
Any director may be removed from office but only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote for the election of directors, considered for this purpose as one class.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes or series of preferred stock issued by said corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of shareholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by any terms of this Certificate of Incorporation of said corporation applicable thereto.
In the event of a vacancy among the directors so elected by the holders of preferred stock, the remaining preferred directors may fill the vacancy for the unexpired term.

As amended April 17, 2012
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an Annual Meeting by a shareholder, such shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary.
To be timely, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary of the date on which the proxy statement was first mailed relating to the immediately preceding Annual Meeting of shareholders; , that in the event that the Annual Meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, in order for a shareholder's notice to be timely it must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which the notice of the date of such Annual Meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of such Annual Meeting was made, whichever first occurs. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an Annual Meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
provided, however
To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such shareholder proposes to bring before the Annual Meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the Annual Meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the Annual Meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the Annual Meeting with respect to such business, and the reasons for conducting such business at the Annual Meeting, (ii) the name and record address of the shareholder of record proposing such business and any other person on whose behalf the proposal is being made, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder or such other person, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and any such other person or persons in connection with the proposal of such business by such shareholder, (v) a description of any material interest of such shareholder or such other person in such business and (vi) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
No business shall be conducted at the Annual Meeting of shareholders except business brought before the Annual Meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 4; , , that, once business has been properly brought before the Annual Meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 4 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any shareholder of any such business. If the Chairman of an Annual Meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the Annual Meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
provided
however
To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth: (i) the name and record address of the shareholder of record making such nomination and any other person on whose behalf the nomination is being made, and of the person or persons to be nominated, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder or such other person, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and any such other person or persons or any nominee or nominees in connection with the nomination by such shareholder, (iv) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such shareholder as would be required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required to be disclosed, pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had the nominee been nominated or intended to be nominated by the Board of Directors, and shall include a consent signed by each such nominee to being named in the proxy statement for the Annual Meeting as a nominee and to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected and (v) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting to make such nomination.
1.A.
Election of Directors
.
The Annual Meeting of the Directors for the election of officers shall be held without notice, immediately after the Annual Meeting of shareholders. Regular meetings of the Directors shall be held at least on a quarterly basis.
During intervals between meetings of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee shall possess and may exercise all the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, but the Committee shall have no power to declare dividends or do other things specially reserved by law to the Directors. The Executive Committee shall have power to appoint such subcommittees as it may deem necessary to report and make recommendations to the Executive Committee. Any action taken by the Executive Committee shall be subject to change, alteration and revision by the Board of Directors, provided that no rights or acts of others shall be affected by any such alteration or revision.
The Committee shall oversee the Corporation's administration of its pension plans and of the pension plans of its subsidiaries. The Committee shall be responsible for setting (subject to the approval of the Board of Directors) the retirement policies of the Corporation and its subsidiaries; for amending pension plans, savings and retirement plans, stock ownership plans or any similar plans or related trust agreements; and for approving actuarial assumptions and investment policies for the Corporation's pension plans. It shall report at least annually to the Board of Directors. The Committee may delegate any or all of these functions to such employees as it, in its judgment, deems appropriate.
Specifically, the Committee shall approve retaining or terminating the services of actuaries, lawyers, accountants or other professionals for the plans; shall approve annually the amount of the contributions to be made by the Corporation to the respective plans; and shall approve appointing and terminating trustees and investment managers and determine the allocation of the assets of the plans among one or more trustees or investment managers.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee shall be to:
The Committee shall provide guidance to the Management on major issues in areas of corporate social responsibility, including environmental issues and public affairs. The Committee shall review and approve policy guidelines to be used by Management in making charitable contributions and shall annually review all charitable contributions made by the Corporation during the previous twelve months and recommend to the Board the level of contributions to be set for the ensuing year.
The officers shall respectively perform all acts and duties required of such officers by law, by the Charter and Bylaws of this Corporation, or by the Board of Directors.
To the extent properly permitted by law the Board of Directors shall provide for the indemnification and reimbursement of, and advances of expenses to, any person made a party to any action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person whose legal representative or successor he or she is,
for expenses, including attorney's fees, and such amount of any judgment, money decree, fine, penalty or settlement for which he or she may have become liable as the Board of Directors deems reasonable, actually incurred by him or her in connection with the defense or reasonable settlement of any such action, suit or proceeding or any appeal therein.
This provision of indemnification shall be in addition to any other right or remedy which such person may have. The Corporation shall have the right to intervene in and defend all such actions, suits or proceedings brought against any such person.
The corporate seal shall be in the custody of the Secretary and either the Secretary or any other officer shall have the power to affix the same for the Corporation.
The Corporation's fiscal year shall close on the Saturday nearest December 31st of each year.
The Board of Directors shall provide for a yearly independent audit, the form and scope of which shall be determined by the Board from time to time.
The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation, subject, however, to the power of the shareholders to adopt, amend or repeal the same, provided that any notice of a meeting of shareholders or of the Board of Directors at which Bylaws are to be adopted, amended or repealed, shall include notice of such proposed action.


