FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20120724191302.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On July 23, 2012, Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. issued a press release announcing that it had entered into an agreement to acquire Infastech Limited. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
On July 24, 2012, Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. made a presentation to investors regarding the agreement to acquire Infastech Limited. A copy of that presentation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not applicable
(b) Not applicable
(c) Not applicable
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. press release, dated July 23, 2012.
99.2 Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. investor presentation, dated July 24, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Stanley Black & Decker To Acquire Infastech, A Leading Specialty Producer Of Engineered Mechanical Fasteners
New Britain, Connecticut, July 23
rd
, 2012
 
 
 
Stanley Black & Decker (NYSE: SWK), an S&P 500 global diversified industrial company, announced today that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Infastech, a leading global manufacturer and distributor of specialty engineered fastening technologies headquartered in Hong Kong, from CVC Capital Partners and Standard Chartered Private Equity Limited for USD$850 million in cash.
With revenues of approximately USD$500 million and more than 2,000 employees, Infastech is one of the world's leading producers of engineered mechanical fasteners and one of the largest Asia-based global players in the specialty mechanical fastener market. Infastech designs, manufactures and distributes highly-engineered fastening technologies and applications for a diverse blue-chip customer base in the industrial, electronics, automotive, construction and aerospace end markets. More than half of Infastech's 2011 revenues were generated in the Asia-Pacific region and once combined with Emhart, Stanley Black & Decker's engineered fastening platform, the enlarged business will generate close to 40% of its revenues from this high growth region. Total company revenues from the emerging markets will increase to approximately 16%, an important step towards the company's mid-decade goal of 20%+. Infastech's comprehensive product portfolio, including leading brands Avdel, ELCO and iForm
TM
, provides innovative, patented and proprietary technologies and customized solutions to customers in more than 150 countries worldwide. The combined engineered fastening platform will generate approximately half of its revenues from automotive manufacturing, a third from industrial fastening applications and 20% from high growth verticals such as electronics. With the acquisition of Infastech, the engineered fastening platform will be the first of the company's recently identified new growth platforms to achieve its mid-decade goal of $1 - $2 billion in revenue.
President and Chief Executive Officer John F. Lundgren commented, "Infastech is both a highly accretive acquisition and a perfect strategic fit for Stanley Black and Decker. It adds to our strong positioning in specialty engineered fastening, an industry which has solid growth prospects particularly in the global electronics, industrial and automotive end markets, and will further expand our global footprint with its strong concentration in fast-growing emerging markets. In addition, Infastech's diverse revenue base, strong margins, and solid financial track record make it a meaningful addition to our portfolio. Led by an experienced and well-respected management team, Infastech is an industry leader with a comprehensive product portfolio, reputation for excellence and longstanding relationships with leading end-market customers. It is an excellent complement to our current Emhart Teknologies engineered fastening business and will broaden our product offering while deepening our IP portfolio and R&D capabilities. Additionally, we see meaningful opportunities to generate significant cross-selling into new market segments and to implement our Stanley Fulfillment System within Infastech's operations throughout the integration process and beyond."
Stanley Black & Decker expects the transaction to result in annual cost savings of approximately USD$25 million by year three. The acquisition is also expected to be immediately accretive to Stanley Black & Decker's earnings per share (EPS), with accretion of USD$0.15 per share in the first year following the closing of the transaction and USD$0.35 per share in the third year following closing, excluding acquisition-related charges of $25 - $30 million which will largely be incurred in the first two years.
The transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The company will be hosting a conference call at 8:00am ET, July 24th, 2012. A slide presentation which will accompany the call will be available at and will remain available after the call. The call will be accessible by telephone at (800) 446-2782 and from outside the U.S. at (847) 413-3235; also, via the Internet at . To access, please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. Please use the conference identification number . A replay will also be available two hours after the call and can be accessed at (888) 843-7419 or (630) 652-3042 using the passcode 32953511#.
www.stanleyblackanddecker.com
www.stanleyblackanddecker.com
32953511
Stanley Black & Decker, an S&P 500 company, is a diversified global provider of hand tools, power tools and related accessories, mechanical access solutions and electronic security solutions, engineered fastening systems, infrastructure solutions and more. Learn more at .
www.stanleyblackanddecker.com
Infastech is one of the world's largest producers of engineered mechanical fasteners with revenues exceeding USD$500 million and an industry heritage built around its lead brands Avdel, ELCO and iForm
TM
dating back as far as 1922. Learn more at .
www.infastech.com
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Stanley Black & Decker makes forward-looking statements in this press release which represent its expectations or beliefs about future events and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are identifiable by words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "may" and other similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements made in this press release, include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: the expected timetable for consummation of the transaction; Infastech's business complementing and expanding Stanley Black & Decker's existing operations and international presence; growth prospects; cost savings; accretion to earnings and other potential benefits and synergies of the transaction.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future events and involve risks, uncertainties and other known and unknown factors that may cause actual results and performance to be materially different from any future results or performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the failure to consummate, or a delay in the consummation of, the transaction; general economic conditions and conditions affecting the industries in which Stanley Black & Decker and Infastech operate; the uncertainty of obtaining regulatory approvals; Stanley Black & Decker's ability to successfully integrate Infastech's operations and employees with Stanley Black & Decker's existing business; the ability to realize anticipated growth, synergies and cost savings; and Infastech's performance and maintenance of important business relationships.
Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements include, without limitation, those set forth under Item 1A Risk Factors of Stanley Black & Decker's Annual Report on Form 10-K and any material changes thereto set forth in any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or those contained in Stanley Black & Decker's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stanley Black & Decker makes no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of any forward-looking statement.
Contacts (United States):
Kate White Vanek
Vice President, Investor Relations, Stanley Black & Decker
(860) 827-3833
kate.vanek@sbdinc.com
Tim Perra
Director, Global Communications, Stanley Black & Decker
(860) 826-3260
tim.perra@sbdinc.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
ACQUISITION OF INFASTECH
July 24, 2012
 
Cautionary Statements
Stanley Black & Decker makes forward-looking statements in this presentation which represent its expectations or beliefs about future events and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are identifiable by words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "may" and other similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements made in this presentation, include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: the expected timetable for consummation of the acquisition; Infastech's business complementing and expanding Stanley Black and Decker's existing operations and international presence; cost savings; accretion to earnings and other potential benefits; synergy expectations and earnings per share.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future events and involve risks, uncertainties and other known and unknown factors that may cause actual results and performance to be materially different from any future results or performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the failure to consummate, or a delay in the consummation of, the transaction for various reasons.
Forward-looking statements made herein are also subject to risks and uncertainties, described in: Stanley's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, its subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; the press release accompanying this presentation; and other filings the Company makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, actual results could differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements, and therefore you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. The Company makes no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of any forward-looking statement.
2
 
A Compelling Opportunity
Strategic
Consistent With Strategy To Expand Engineered Fastening Platform Into Other High Growth Verticals & Open New End Markets
30% Of Revenues In Electronics, 32% In Industrials
Diversifies Business Mix, Broadens Geographic Reach, Improves Value Proposition & Provides Scale
54% Of Revenues In Asia Pacific Region
Brings Total SWK Revenues In Emerging Markets To ~16%
Opportunity To Capitalize Further On $60B+ Global Fastener Market
Accretive
Immediately Accretive To EPS: $0.15/Share In Y1, $0.35 /Share By Y3, Excluding Costs To Achieve Synergies Of $25$30M, Which Will Largely Be Incurred In First Two Years
$25M Of Cost Synergies By Year 3: ~2% Of Combined Infastech/Engineered
Fastening Revenues
60% COGS/40% SG&A
Sales, Marketing & Customer Service Consolidation
Raw Material Savings, Product Rationalization & Operations Consolidation
Migration To Shared Services
Disciplined
Implied LTM EBITDA Purchase Multiple Of 7.1x (Including Y3 Run-Rate Synergies); 9.1x Excluding Synergies
Strong Balance Sheet Maintained
Does Not Impact Ongoing Integration Of Recent Acquisitions (e.g., Niscayah)
Incumbent Infastech Management Complements Proven Emhart Team
Highly Complementary Fit With Existing Engineered Fastening Business, Emhart Teknologies
3
 
Transaction Details
Acquisition Of Infastech Establishes Stanley Black & Decker As A Global Leader Of Specialty Engineered Fasteners
Infastech Overview
 -  Headquartered In Hong Kong, Infastech Is An Asia Centric Global Manufacturer And Distributor Of Specialty Engineered Fastening Technologies For Electronic, Automotive And General Industry OEM's
 -  2011 Revenues Of ~$500M (17.0% Growth YOY) And EBITDA Of ~$90M (~18% Margin)
 -  Formed By The Combination Of The Global Electronics & Commercial ("GEC") And Avdel Fastener Businesses From Acument Global Technologies In 2010
History Of Dialogue/ Transaction
In April 2012, Infastech's Owners Initiated An Auction Process To Sell The Company
Purchase Price
 -  USD$850M
Timing
 -  Subject To Customary Closing Conditions, Including Regulatory Approvals
 -  Transaction Is Expected To Close In 4Q'12
 And The Engineered Fastening Platform Becomes The First Of SWK's Recently Identified New Growth Platforms To Achieve Its Mid-Decade Goal Of $1$2B In Revenue
4
 
Infastech Business Overview
Description
Global Provider Of Engineered Fastening Technology For
Electronic And General Industry OEMs
Seven Manufacturing Plants, Four In Low Cost Countries & Nearly All Fabrication Processes In-House Patented And Proprietary Technologies Comprehensive Product Portfolio With Long-Standing, Recognizable Brands
Fastening Solutions By Product Line
Avex
NeoSpeed
Infalok
Genesis range
Diversified End Markets, Geographic Footprint & Customer Base
End Markets
Construction 6%
Aerospace 1%
Solar/Wind 2%
Automotive 29%
Industrial 32%
Electronics 30%
Geographies
North America 25%
Western Europe 18%
Eastern Europe 2%
South America 1%
APAC 54%
Customers
Three Year Revenue CAGR: 16%; Three Year EBITDA CAGR: 30%
Top 10 Cutomers = -35% Of Revenues
Using LTM 6/12
5
 
Creating A Premier Global Engineered Fastening Franchise
Pro Forma Total Engineered Fastening Business: ~$1.4B
End Markets
Aerospace/ Wind/Solar 4%
Construction 4%
Automotive 52%
Industrial 27%
Electronics 13%
Geographies
South America 3%
APAC 36%
North America 30%
Europe 31%
Diversifies Emhart's Current End Markets & Geographic Footprint
Significantly Increases Asian Footprint And Balances Portfolio Across Asia, Europe And Americas
Establishes A Strong Position For Emhart As A Global Manufacturer And Supplier Of Blind Rivet And Automated Assembly Systems And Micro-Threaded Fasteners For The Electronics Industry
Extends Our Powerful Business Model
Meaningful Opportunities To Generate Significant Cross-Selling Into New Market Segments & Geographies Micro Fasteners, High-Strength Structural Fasteners & Plastics Australia, South America, Eastern Europe Significant Revenue Opportunities For Stanley Black & Decker In Global Electronics & Automotive
Addition Of Infastech Brings Total SWK Presence In Emerging Markets To ~16%
 
Summary
Acquisition Of Infastech Establishes Stanley Black & Decker As A Global Leader Of Specialty Fasteners
Compelling, Strategic, Accretive Transaction
 -  Increases Scale, Expands Presence In Emerging Markets & Opens New End Markets
 -  $0.35 Of EPS Accretion By Year 3*
Excellent Fit With Vision To Expand Further Into High Growth, High Margin Businesses
 -  Double-Digit Revenue & EBITDA Growth Track Record
Clear Synergy Opportunity: ~$25M By Year 3; High Level Of Confidence Given SWK's Strong Global Integration Track Record
 -  Complementary Fit With Current $900M Emhart Engineered Fastening Business
Opportunity To Implement The Stanley Fulfillment System To Drive Greater Efficiencies
In The High Growth $60B+ Global Fastener Market
*Before Costs To Achieve Of $25-$30M
 
ACQUISITION OF INFASTECH
July 24, 2012


