FILE:SWK/SWK-8K-20120725165917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 25, 2012, Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. (the "Company") completed a public offering of $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.75% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2052 (the "Debentures"). The Debentures were offered under the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration No. 333-178017), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 16, 2011.
The Debentures were issued under the Indenture, dated November 22, 2005 (the "Initial Indenture"), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated July 25, 2012 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture" and together with the Initial Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Company and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Indenture includes customary agreements and covenants by the Company.
The Debentures are the Company's unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with its other unsecured junior subordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. The Debentures will mature on July 25, 2052. Interest on the Debentures will be payable on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2012. The interest rate on the Debentures is 5.75% per annum. The Company may defer interest payments during one or more deferral periods for up to five consecutive years per deferral period under certain circumstances. The Debentures were sold to investors at par.
The Debentures are redeemable, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, at the Company's option. The redemption price for the Debentures to be redeemed on any redemption date that is prior to July 25, 2017 will be equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures to be redeemed; or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of interest and principal on the Debentures to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued and unpaid to, but not including, the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a quarterly basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the treasury rate plus 50 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The redemption price for the Debentures to be redeemed on any redemption date that is on or after July 25, 2017 will be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, the Company may redeem the Debentures in whole, but not in part, before July 25, 2017 if certain changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations occur. In such case, the redemption price will be 100% of the principal amount of such Debentures being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company may also redeem the Debentures at its option, in whole but not in part, before July 25, 2017 if a rating agency changes the equity credit criteria for securities such as the Debentures. In such case, the redemption price will be equal to 102% of the principal amount of the Debentures being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. In each case, the Company will pay accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date.
The Third Supplemental Indenture and a form of the global certificate evidencing the Debentures (the "Form of Debenture") are filed as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 to this Form 8-K, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The descriptions of the material terms of the Debentures and the Third Supplemental Indenture are qualified in their entirety by reference to such exhibits.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information included in Item 1.01 above related to the Third Supplemental Indenture and the Form of Debenture is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following materials are filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 25, 2012
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of July 25, 2012 (this ""), is between Stanley Black & Decker, Inc., a Connecticut corporation (the ""), and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee (the "") under the Indenture, dated as of November 22, 2005, between the Company and the Trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
Indenture
WHEREAS, the Company executed and delivered the Indenture to the Trustee to provide for the future issuance of the Company's unsecured junior subordinated debt securities, to be issued from time to time in one or more series as might be determined by the Company under the Indenture, in an unlimited aggregate principal amount which may be authenticated and delivered as provided in the Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of its junior subordinated debt securities under the Indenture to be known as its 5.75% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2052 (the ""), the form of the Debentures and the terms and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture; and
Debentures
WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture, and all requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument, in accordance with its terms, and to make the Debentures, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company, have been performed, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the purchase and acceptance of the Debentures by the holders thereof, and for the purpose of setting forth, as provided in the Indenture, the form of the Debentures and the terms and conditions thereof, the Company covenants and agrees with the Trustee as follows:
Section 1.01Unless the context otherwise requires:
. Definition of Terms.
(a) a term defined in the Indenture and not otherwise defined in this Supplemental Indenture has the meaning set forth in the Indenture when used in this Supplemental Indenture,
 
(b) a term defined anywhere in this Supplemental Indenture has the same meaning throughout, and
(c) all financial terms used in this Supplemental Indenture will be determined in accordance with GAAP as applied to and reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements as of the relevant dates or for the relevant periods, except as expressly provided in the definitions of the terms set forth herein.
In addition, the following terms have the following respective meanings:
"" means the 4.25% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2018 issued by the Company pursuant to the Indenture, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 5, 2010, between the Company and the Trustee.
4.25% Junior Subordinated Notes
"" means any Rating Agency that (a) published a rating for the Company on the date hereof and publishes a rating for the Company at such time as a Rating Agency Event occurs, or (b) any successor to a Rating Agency described in the preceding clause (a).
Applicable Rating Agency
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Supplemental Indenture.
Company
"" means the U. S. Treasury security or securities selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to July 25, 2017 that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a maturity comparable to July 25, 2017.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (a) the arithmetic average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (b) if the Company obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the arithmetic average of all such quotations for such redemption date.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Supplemental Indenture.
Debentures
"" means an offering of units by the Company consisting of a debt security issued by the Company and a purchase contract or similar agreement with the Company providing for the issuance of the capital stock of the Company in which the holder of such purchase contract is obligated to purchase the capital stock of the Company on a forward basis and the obligation to pay the purchase price for such capital stock is secured by the proceeds derived from a remarketing of the debt security and is backstopped by
Equity Unit Transaction
 
the right to put the debt security to the Company for the purchase price, or any similar offering of units or similar transaction designed to secure equity credit from a Rating Agency.
"" means, at any date or for any period, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, as in effect on such date or for such period.
GAAP
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04.
Global Security
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Supplemental Indenture.
Indenture
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company; provided that if such Reference Treasury Dealer ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Independent Investment Banker
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the form of Debenture set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
Interest Payment Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01.
Optional Deferral Period
"" means the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated as of November 5, 2010, among the Company, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, as purchase contract agent and attorney-in-fact for holders of the purchase contracts, and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as collateral agent, custodial agent and securities intermediary, as amended from time to time.
Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement
"" means any nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act.
Rating Agency
"" means a change to the methodology or criteria that were employed by an Applicable Rating Agency for purposes of assigning equity credit to securities such as the Debentures on the date hereof (the ""), which change either (a) shortens the period of time during which equity credit pertaining to the Debentures would have been in effect had such current methodology not been changed by the Applicable Rating Agency or (b) reduces the amount of equity credit assigned to the Debentures by the Applicable Rating Agency as compared with the amount of equity credit that such Rating Agency had assigned to the Debentures as of the date hereof.
Rating Agency Event
current methodology
"" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, UBS Securities LLC or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC; that if any of the foregoing dealers shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in the U.S. (a ""), the Company will substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the arithmetic average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m. New York City time on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date, (a) the Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date so long as all of the Debentures are represented by one or more Global Securities and (b) the first day of the calendar month in which such Interest Payment Date falls (whether or not such day is a Business Day) if any of the Debentures are no longer represented by a Global Security.
Regular Record Date
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means all of the obligations of the Company, whether presently existing or from time to time hereafter incurred, created assumed or existing, to pay principal, premium, interest, penalties, fees and any other payment in respect of any of the following: (a) indebtedness for borrowed money, including, without limitation, such obligations as are evidenced by credit agreements, notes, debentures, bonds and similar instruments; (b) obligations under synthetic leases, finance leases and capitalized leases; (c) obligations for reimbursement under letters of credit, banker's acceptances, security purchase facilities or similar facilities issued for the account of the Company; (d) any obligations with respect to derivative contracts, including but not limited to commodity contracts, interest rate, commodity and currency swap agreements, forward contracts and other similar agreements or arrangements designed to protect against fluctuations in commodity prices, currency exchange or interest rates; (e) the 4.25% Junior Subordinated Notes but only after such notes are remarketed in accordance with their terms; and (f) all obligations of the types referred to in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) above of others which the Company has assumed, guaranteed or otherwise becomes liable for, under any agreement, unless, in the case of any particular indebtedness or obligation, the instrument creating or evidencing the same or the assumption or guarantee of the same expressly provides that such indebtedness or obligation is not superior in right of payment to or is equal in right of payment with the Debentures, as the case may be; provided that trade obligations incurred by the Company in its ordinary course of business shall not be deemed to be Senior Indebtedness.
Senior Indebtedness
"" has the meaning provided in the preamble hereto.
Supplemental Indenture
"" means that the Company shall have received an opinion of a nationally recognized counsel experienced in U.S. federal income tax matters that, as a result of (a) any amendment to, clarification of, or change, including any announced prospective change, in the laws or treaties of the U.S. or any of its
Tax Event
 
political subdivisions or taxing authorities, or any regulations under those laws or treaties, (b) an administrative action, which means any judicial decision or any official administrative pronouncement, ruling, regulatory procedure, notice or announcement including any notice or announcement of intent to issue or adopt any administrative pronouncement, ruling, regulatory procedure or regulation, (c) any amendment to, clarification of, or change in the official position or the interpretation of any administrative action or judicial decision or any interpretation or pronouncement that provides for a position with respect to an administrative action or judicial decision that differs from the previously generally accepted position, in each case by any legislative body, court, governmental authority or regulatory body, regardless of the time or manner in which that amendment, clarification or change is introduced or made known; or (d) a threatened challenge asserted in writing in connection with an audit of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or a publicly-known threatened challenge asserted in writing against any other taxpayer that has raised capital through the issuance of securities that are substantially similar to the Debentures, which amendment, clarification, or change is effective or the administrative action is taken or judicial decision, interpretation or pronouncement is issued or threatened challenge is asserted or becomes publicly-known after July 18, 2012, and there is more than an insubstantial risk that interest payable by the Company on the Debentures is not deductible, or within 90 days would not be deductible, in whole or in part, by the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the quarterly equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Supplemental Indenture.
Trustee
Section 1.02Each definition in this Supplemental Indenture includes the singular and the plural, and references to the neuter gender include the masculine and feminine where appropriate. References to any statute mean such statute as amended at the time and include any successor legislation. The word "or" is not exclusive, and the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" refer to this Supplemental Indenture as a whole. The headings to the Articles and Sections are for convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Supplemental Indenture. References to Articles and Sections mean the Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture.
. Interpretation.
 
Section 2.01(a)There is hereby authorized under the Indenture a series of Debt Securities designated the "5.75% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2052."
. Designation and Principal Amount.
 
(b) The Company will initially issue $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Debentures. The Company may from time to time, without notice to or consent of the Holders of the Debentures, issue additional Debentures of the same tenor, coupon and other terms as the outstanding Debentures, so that the additional Debentures and the then outstanding Debentures will form a single series.
Section 2.02Subject to earlier redemption under Article 4, the principal of the Debentures is payable on July 25, 2052.
. Maturity.
Section 2.03The Debentures and the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication to be endorsed thereon shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto, with such changes therein as the officers of the Company executing the Debentures (by manual or facsimile signature) may approve, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Debentures shall in all respects be subject to the terms, conditions and covenants of the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, including the form of Debenture set forth as Exhibit A hereto (the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Supplemental Indenture). The Debentures may be signed by the Company without a corporate seal. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture and the provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be controlling with respect to the Debentures.
. Form of Notes, Authentication Certificate.
Section 2.04The Debentures shall be issuable in denominations of $25 and integral multiples in excess thereof.
. Denominations.
Section 2.05The Debentures will be issued as Global Securities under Section 2.11 of the Indenture.
. Global Securities.
Section 2.06. (a) The Debentures will bear interest at the rate of 5.75% per year payable on the dates set forth in the form of Debenture attached as Exhibit A hereto, subject to deferral in accordance with Article 3.
Interest Rate; Interest Payment Date; Interest Calculations; Payments on Business Days.
(b) The amount of interest payable on the Debentures will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months, and for any period shorter than a full quarterly period, on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed using 30-day calendar months.
 
(c) If any date on which interest, principal or premium is payable on the Debentures falls on a day that is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest, principal or premium payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day which is a business day, and no interest or payment will be paid in respect of the delay. For this purpose, a "" is any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies in New York City are generally authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
Business Day
Section 2.07. . HSBC Bank USA, National Association shall be the paying agent for the Debentures. The paying agent, unless the Company shall otherwise determine and so notify the paying agent in writing, shall calculate the amount of interest payable on the Debentures on each Interest Payment Date. All certificates, communications, opinions, determinations, calculations, quotations and decisions given, expressed, made or obtained for the purposes of the provisions relating to the payment and calculation of interest on the Debentures, by the paying agent, will (in the absence of willful default or manifest error) be binding on the Company, the Trustee and all holders of the Debentures, and no liability will (in the absence of willful default or manifest error) attach to the paying agent in connection with the exercise or non-exercise by any of them of their powers, duties and discretion.
Paying Agent
Section 2.08Debentures in the aggregate principal amount of $750,000,000 may, upon execution of this Supplemental Indenture, be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Debentures to or upon the order of the Company pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Indenture, without any further action by the Company (other than as required by the Indenture).
. Initial Authentication of Debentures.
Section 3.01. . (a) So long as there is no Event of Default, the Company may defer interest payments on the Debentures, from time to time, for one or more periods (each, an "") of up to five consecutive years per Optional Deferral Period. However, a deferral of interest payments cannot extend beyond the maturity date of the Debentures. During an Optional Deferral Period, interest will continue to accrue on the Debentures, compounded quarterly, and deferred interest payments will accrue additional interest at an annual rate of 5.75%, to the extent permitted by applicable law. No interest will be due and payable on the Debentures until the end of the Optional Deferral Period except upon a redemption of the Debentures during the deferral period. Prior to an Optional Deferral Period, the Company shall provide to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate identifying the beginning of the Optional Deferral Period at least five Business Days before the first Interest Payment Date during the Optional Deferral Period.
Optional Interest Deferral
Optional Deferral Period
 
(b) The Company may pay at any time all or any portion of the interest accrued to that point during an Optional Deferral Period. At the end of the Optional Deferral Period or on any redemption date, the Company will be obligated to pay all accrued and unpaid interest.
(c) Once all accrued and unpaid interest on the Debentures has been paid, the Company can again defer interest payments on the Debentures as described above, provided that an Optional Deferral Period cannot extend beyond the maturity date of the Debentures.
(d) If the Company defers interest for a period of five consecutive years from the commencement of an Optional Deferral Period, the Company will be required to pay all accrued and unpaid interest at the conclusion of the five-year period.
Section 3.02. (a) During any Optional Deferral Period, the Company shall not, and shall cause its majority-owned Subsidiaries not to:
Restricted Payments on Deferral.
(i) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of the Company's capital stock;
(ii) make any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on, or repay, purchase or redeem any of the Company's indebtedness that ranks equal in right of payment with, or junior in interest to, the Debentures;
(iii) make any payment under any purchase contract or similar agreement providing for the issuance by the Company of capital stock on a forward basis (including the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement); or
(iv) make any guarantee payments regarding any guarantee by the Company of indebtedness of any other party if the guarantee ranks equal in right of payment with, or junior in interest to, the Debentures.
(b) The restrictions set forth in Section 3.02(a) shall not apply to:
(i) payments on indebtedness issued in connection with an Equity Unit Transaction (including the 4.25% Junior Subordinated Notes) to the extent that the Company is not permitted to defer such payments or cannot settle any related purchase contracts or successfully remarket such indebtedness if the Company fails to make such payments; that to the extent that the Company is allowed to satisfy its obligations to make
provided
 
such payments through the issue of deferral or other similar pay-in-kind securities that rank equal in right of payment with, or junior to, the Debentures, the Company shall do so; further, that the Company shall be permitted to make any required payments on such deferral or similar pay-in-kind securities that rank equal in right of payment with, or junior to, the Debentures to the extent required pursuant to the terms thereof;
provided
(ii) payments under any purchase contract or similar agreement providing for the issuance by the Company of capital stock on a forward basis (including the Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement) to the extent that the Company is not permitted to defer such payments or cannot settle such purchase contracts or successfully remarket any related indebtedness (including the 4.25% Junior Subordinated Notes) if the Company fails to make such payments;
(iii) any dividend or other distribution on the capital stock of the Company in capital stock of the Company, or warrants, options or rights to acquire the capital stock of the Company, other than any indebtedness convertible into the Company's capital stock;
(iv) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of the capital stock of the Company for or to any class or series of the capital stock of the Company;
(v) any exchange, redemption, repayment, repurchase or conversion of any of the Company's indebtedness that ranks equal in right of payment with the Debentures for (i) any class or series of the capital stock of the Company, (ii) warrants, options or rights to acquire the capital stock of the Company, other than any convertible debt, or (iii) evidences of indebtedness or other obligations of the Company that rank equal in right of payment with, or junior to, the Debentures, including any such indebtedness convertible into the capital stock of the Company;
(vi) any exchange, redemption, repayment, repurchase or conversion of any of indebtedness of the Company that ranks junior in right of payment to the Debentures for (i) any class or series of the capital stock of the Company, (ii) warrants, options or rights to acquire the capital stock of the Company, other than any convertible debt, or (iii) evidences of indebtedness or other obligations of the Company that rank junior in right of payment to the Debentures, including any such indebtedness convertible into capital stock of the Company;
(vii) any purchase of, or payment in cash in lieu of, fractional interests in shares of the capital stock of the Company (i) issued by the Company in connection with a bona fide acquisition of a business or (ii) issued by the Company pursuant to the conversion or exchange
 
provisions of the capital stock of the Company or securities of the Company convertible into or exchangeable for the capital stock of the Company;
(viii) repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of the capital stock of the Company or capital stock rights contractually required by any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of the employees, officers, directors or consultants of the Company or those of Subsidiaries of the Company; and
(ix) any declaration of a dividend on the capital stock of the Company in connection with the implementation of a shareholders rights plan designed to protect the Company against unsolicited offers to acquire the capital stock of the Company, or the issuance of the capital stock of the Company under any such plan in the future, or the redemption or repurchase of any such rights pursuant thereto.
Section 4.01Subject to the provisions of Article III of the Indenture, the Company shall have the right to redeem the Debentures for cash in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time:
. Optional Redemption.
(a) prior to July 25, 2017, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures being redeemed, and
(ii) the sum of the present values of remaining scheduled payments of interest and principal thereon discounted to the redemption date on a quarterly basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 0.50%,
, in each case, all accrued and unpaid interest thereon to but not including the redemption date; and
plus
(b) on or after July 25, 2017 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures to be redeemed, plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon to but not including the redemption date.
Section 4.02If a Tax Event has occurred prior to July 25, 2017, then the Company shall have the right to redeem the Debentures, in whole but not in part, for cash within 90 days following the occurrence of such Tax Event at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures being redeemed, plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon to but not including the redemption date.
. Tax Event Redemption.
 
Section 4.03If a Rating Agency Event has occurred prior to July 25, 2017, then the Company shall have the right to redeem the Debentures, in whole but not in part, for cash within 90 days after the conclusion of any review or appeal process instituted by the Company following the occurrence of such Rating Agency Event at a redemption price equal to 102% of the principal amount of the Debentures being redeemed, plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon to but not including the redemption date.
. Rating Agency Event Redemption.
Section 4.04Any redemption pursuant to this Article 4 will be made upon not less than 30 days' nor more than 60 days' notice mailed to the registered holder of the Debentures. On and after the applicable redemption date for the Debentures, interest will cease to accrue on the Debentures or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the applicable redemption price. If the Debentures are to be redeemed in part, the Debentures will be redeemed pro rata or by lot or by any other method utilized by the Trustee as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate; provided, that if at the time of redemption, the Debentures are registered as a Global Security, the Depositary shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of such Debentures beneficially held by each holder of a Debenture to be redeemed. The applicable redemption price, shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of such redemption or at such earlier time as the Company determines and specifies in the notice of redemption, provided the Company shall deposit with a paying agent or the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay such redemption price, and accrued and unpaid interest on the Debentures, by 11:00 a.m. on the date such redemption price is to be paid.
. Redemption Procedures.
Section 5.01(a)The Company covenants and agrees, and each holder of Debentures issued hereunder by such holder's acceptance thereof likewise covenants and agrees, that all Debentures shall be issued subject to the provisions of this Article 5; and each holder of a Debenture, whether upon original issue or upon transfer or assignment thereof, accepts and agrees to be bound by such provisions.
. Agreement to Subordinate.
 
No provision of this Article 5 shall prevent the occurrence of any default or Event of Default hereunder.
(b) The payment by the Company of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all Debentures issued hereunder shall, to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth, be subordinated and subject in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company, whether
 
outstanding at the date of this Supplemental Indenture or thereafter incurred. The Debentures will rank equal in right of payment with the 4.25% Junior Subordinated Notes until such notes are remarketed in accordance with their terms, at which time the 4.25% Junior Subordinated Notes will become Senior Indebtedness.
Section 5.02In the event and during the continuation of any default by the Company in the payment of principal, premium, interest or any other payment due on any Senior Indebtedness of the Company, or in the event that the maturity of any Senior Indebtedness of the Company has been accelerated because of a default, then, in either case, no payment shall be made by the Company with respect to the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Debentures.
. Default on Senior Indebtedness.
In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment shall be received by the Trustee or any Holder when such payment is prohibited by the preceding paragraph of this Section 5.02, such payment shall be held in trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid over or delivered to, the holders of Senior Indebtedness or their respective representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, as their respective interests may appear, but only to the extent that the holders of the Senior Indebtedness (or their representative or representatives or a trustee) notify the Trustee in writing within 90 days of such payment of the amounts then due and owing on the Senior Indebtedness and only the amounts specified in such notice to the Trustee shall be paid to the holders of Senior Indebtedness.
Section 5.03Upon any payment by the Company, or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, to creditors upon any dissolution or winding-up or liquidation or reorganization of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary or in bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other proceedings, all amounts due on all Senior Indebtedness of the Company shall first be paid in full, or payment thereof provided for in money in accordance with its terms, before any payment is made by the Company on account of the principal (and premium, if any) or interest on the Debentures; and upon any such dissolution or winding-up or liquidation or reorganization, any payment by the Company, or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, to which the Holders of the Debentures or the Trustee would be entitled to receive from the Company, except for the provisions of this Article 5, shall be paid by the Company or by any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, liquidating trustee, agent or other Person making such payment or distribution, or by the holders of the Debentures or by the Trustee under this Indenture if received by them or it, directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company (pro rata to such holders on the basis of the respective amounts of Senior Indebtedness held by such holders, as calculated by the Company) or their representative or representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which
. Liquidation; Dissolution; Bankruptcy.
 
any instruments evidencing such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, as their respective interests may appear, to the extent necessary to pay such Senior Indebtedness in full, in money or money's worth, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the holders of such Senior Indebtedness, before any payment or distribution is made to the holders of Debentures or to the Trustee.
In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, prohibited by the foregoing, shall be received by the Trustee or the Holders of the Debentures before all Senior Indebtedness of the Company is paid in full, or provision is made for such payment in money in accordance with its terms, such payment or distribution shall be held in trust for the benefit of and shall be paid over or delivered to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness or their representative or representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which any instruments evidencing such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, as their respective interests may appear, as calculated by the Company, for application to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company remaining unpaid to the extent necessary to pay such Senior Indebtedness in full in money in accordance with its terms, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the benefit of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness.
For purposes of this Article 5, the words "cash, property or securities" shall not be deemed to include shares of stock of the Company as reorganized or readjusted, or securities of the Company or any other corporation provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment, the payment of which is subordinated at least to the extent provided in this Article 5 with respect to the Debentures to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company that may at the time be outstanding, that (i) such Senior Indebtedness is assumed by the new corporation, if any, resulting from any such reorganization or readjustment, and (ii) the rights of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness are not, without the consent of such holders, altered by such reorganization or readjustment. The consolidation of the Company with, or the merger of the Company into, another corporation or the liquidation or dissolution of the Company following the conveyance or transfer of its property as an entirety, or substantially as an entirety, to another corporation upon the terms and conditions provided for in Article 10 of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture shall not be deemed a dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization for the purposes of this Section 5.03 if such other corporation shall, as a part of such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer, comply with the conditions stated in Article 10 of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture. Nothing in Section 5.02 or in this Section 5.03 shall apply to claims of, or payments to, the Trustee under or pursuant to Section 7.06 of the Indenture.
provided
 
Section 5.04Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company, the rights of the holders of the Debentures shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness to receive payments or distributions of cash, property or securities of the Company applicable to such Senior Indebtedness until the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Debentures shall be paid in full; and, for the purposes of such subrogation, no payments or distributions to the holders for such Senior Indebtedness of any cash, property or securities to which the holders of the Debentures or the Trustee would be entitled except for the provisions of this Article 5, and no payment over pursuant to the provisions of this Article 5, to or for the benefit of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness by holders of the Debentures or the Trustee, shall, as between the Company, its creditors other than holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, and the holders of the Debentures be deemed to be a payment by the Company to or on account of such Senior Indebtedness. It is understood that the provisions of this Article 5 are and are intended solely for the purposes of defining the relative rights of the holders of the Debentures, on the one hand, and the holders of such Senior Indebtedness on the other hand.
. Subrogation.
Nothing contained in this Article 5 or elsewhere in this Indenture or in the Debentures is intended to or shall impair, as between the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, and the holders of the Debentures, the obligation of the Company which is absolute and unconditional, to pay to the holders of the Debentures the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Debentures as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms, or is intended to or shall affect the relative rights of the holders of the Debentures and creditors of the Company, other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, nor shall anything herein or therein prevent the Trustee or the holder of any Debenture from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under the Indenture, subject to the rights, if any, under this Article 5 of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness in respect of cash, property or securities of the Company, received upon the exercise of any such remedy.
Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article 5, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01 of the Indenture, and the Holders of the Debentures, shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree made by any court of competent jurisdiction in which such dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization proceedings are pending, or a certificate of the receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, liquidation trustee, agent or other Person making such payment or distribution, delivered to the Trustee or to the holders of the Debentures, for the purposes of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such distribution, the holders of Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article 5.
 
Section 5.05Each Holder of a Debenture by such Holder's acceptance thereof authorizes and directs the Trustee on such Holder's behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination provided in this Article 5 and appoints the Trustee such holder's attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes.
. Trustee to Effectuate Subordination.
Section 5.06The Company shall give prompt written notice to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee of any fact known to the Company that would prohibit the making of any payment of monies to or by the Trustee in respect of the Debentures pursuant to the provisions of this Article 5. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 5 or any other provision of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of the existence of any facts that would prohibit the making of any payment of monies to or by the Trustee in respect of the Debentures pursuant to the provisions of this Article 5 unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee from the Company or a holder or holders of Senior Indebtedness or from any trustee therefor; and before the receipt of any such written notice, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01 of the Indenture, shall be entitled in all respects to assume that no such facts exist; if the Trustee shall not have received the notice provided for in this Section 5.06 at least two Business Days prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any money may become payable for any purpose (including, without limitation, the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Debenture), then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall have full power and authority to receive such money and to apply the same to the purposes for which they were received, and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary that may be received by it within two Business Days prior to such date.
. Notice by the Company.
provided that
The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01 of the Indenture, shall be entitled to rely on the delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing himself to be a holder of Senior Indebtedness of the Company (or a trustee on behalf of such holder) to establish that such notice has been given by a holder of such Senior Indebtedness or a trustee on behalf of any such holder or holders. In the event that the Trustee determines in good faith that further evidence is required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of such Senior Indebtedness to participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to this Article 5, the Trustee may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee as to the amount of such Senior Indebtedness held by such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under this Article 5, and if such evidence is not furnished, the Trustee may defer any payment to such Person pending judicial determination as to the right of such Person to receive such payment.
Section 5.07The Trustee in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the rights set forth in this Article 5 in respect of any Senior Indebtedness at any time held by it, to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Indebtedness, and nothing in this Indenture shall deprive the Trustee of any of its rights as such holder.
. Rights of the Trustee; Holders of Senior Indebtedness.
 
With respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, the Trustee undertakes to perform or to observe only such of its covenants and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Article 5, and no implied covenants or obligations with respect to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee. The Trustee shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness and, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee shall not be liable to any holder of such Senior Indebtedness if it shall pay over or deliver to holders of Debentures, the Company or any other Person money or assets to which any holder of such Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by virtue of this Article 5 or otherwise.
Section 5.08No right of any present or future holder of any Senior Indebtedness of the Company to enforce subordination as herein provided shall at any time or in any way be prejudiced or impaired by any act or failure to act on the part of the Company or by any act or failure to act, in good faith, by any such holder, or by any noncompliance by the Company with the terms, provisions and covenants of the Indenture, regardless of any knowledge thereof that any such holder may have or otherwise be charged with.
. Subordination May Not Be Impaired.
Without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing paragraph, the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company may, at any time and from time to time, without the consent of or notice to the Trustee or the Holders of the Debentures, without incurring responsibility to the Holders of the Debentures and without impairing or releasing the subordination provided in this Article 5 or the obligations hereunder of the Holders of the Debentures to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness, do any one or more the following: (a) change the manner, place or terms of payment or extend the time of payment of, or renew or alter, such Senior Indebtedness, or otherwise amend or supplement in any manner such Senior Indebtedness or any instrument evidencing the same or any agreement under which such Senior Indebtedness is outstanding; (b) sell, exchange, release or otherwise deal with any property pledged, mortgaged or otherwise securing such Senior Indebtedness; (c) release any Person liable in any manner for the collection of such Senior Indebtedness; and (d) exercise or refrain from exercising any rights against the Company and any other Person.
Section 5.09The holders of Senior Indebtedness shall not have any rights under the Indenture to enforce any of the covenants contained in any of the other Articles of this Supplemental Indenture, including, without limitation, the covenants contained in Article 3 hereof.
. No Right to Rely on Other Covenants.
 
Section 6.01. . (a) With respect to the Debentures, the Event of Defaults set forth in Section 6.01 of the Indenture shall not apply. Instead, "" means with respect to the Debentures any one or more of the following events that has occurred and is continuing:
Events of Default
Event of Default
(i) the Company defaults in any payment of interest on any of the Debentures when the same becomes due and payable on an Interest Payment Date within 30 calendar days following the Interest Payment Date, or if interest has been deferred, following the end of the applicable Optional Deferral Period;
(ii) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any of the Debentures when the same shall become due and payable whether at maturity, upon redemption, by declaration or otherwise;
(iii) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law (1) commences a voluntary case, (2) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, (3) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property or (4) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
(iv) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order under any Bankruptcy Law that (1) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case, (2) appoints a Custodian of the Company for all or substantially all of its property, or (3) orders the liquidation of the Company, and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days.
(b) If an Event of Default described in clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this Section 6.01 with respect to the Debentures occurs and is continuing, the Holders of the Debentures shall be entitled to the remedies in Article 6 of the Indenture.
Section 7.01In addition to the requirements of Section 10.01 of the Indenture, any successor or transferee entity under Section 10.01 of the Indenture shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia.
. U.S. Successor Corporation.
 
Section 8.01The Debentures will be subject to defeasance and discharge pursuant to Sections 11.02 and 11.03 of the Indenture in accordance with the provisions of Article XI of the Indenture.
. Applicability of Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance.
Section 9.01The Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
. Ratification of Indenture.
Section 9.02The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture.
. Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals.
Section 9.03This Supplemental Indenture and each Debenture shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State, except to the extent the Trust Indenture Act shall be applicable.
. Governing Law.
Section 9.04. . The Company agrees, and each holder of the Debentures will be deemed to have agreed, to treat the Debentures as indebtedness of the Company for all U.S. federal, state and local tax purposes.
Treatment of the Debentures as Debt
Section 9.05In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Debentures shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, then, to the extent permitted by the law, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture or of the Debentures, but this Supplemental Indenture and the Debentures shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.
. Separability.
Section 9.06. (a) This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
(b) The exchange of copies of this Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Agreement as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Supplemental Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
 
Section 9.07For purposes of the Debentures, the Indenture is hereby amended as follows:
. Amendments to Indenture.
(a) The following language is added to the end of Section 7.02 of the Indenture:
(1) In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
(b) In Section 7.05 of the Indenture, the words ", nor need the Trustee manage such moneys" shall be inserted after the words "except to the extent required by law."
(c) In Section 7.06 of the Indenture, the words "bad faith" shall be replaced with "willful misconduct" in each instance that they appear.
(d) The following language is added to the end of Article XIII of the Indenture:
SECTION 13.14.EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE DEBT SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed on the date or dates indicated in the acknowledgements and as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
[If the Debenture is to be a Global Security, insert: THIS DEBENTURE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. THIS DEBENTURE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR DEBENTURES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS DEBENTURE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS DEBENTURE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
UNLESS THIS DEBENTURE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY DEBENTURE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
 
 
STANLEY BLACK & DECKER, INC., a Connecticut corporation (the "", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to or registered assigns, the principal sum [of Dollars ($)]
Company
            
            
            
1
[as set forth in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Debenture attached hereto, which amount shall not exceed $[]],
            
2
on July 25, 2052 and to pay interest thereon from [July 25, 2012]
3
or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 of each year and on July 25, 2052 (each, an ""), commencing on September 15, 2012, at the rate of 5.75% per annum.
Interest Payment Date
Interest on the Debentures shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Debentures are registered on the close of business (i) on the Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date so long as all of the Debentures are represented by one or more Global Securities or (ii) on the March 1, June 1, September 1 or December 1 immediately preceding each Interest Payment Date if any of the Debentures are no longer represented by a Global Security, each a "" for such Interest Payment Date.
regular record date
So long as no Event of Default has occurred, the Company shall have the right to defer payment of interest on the Debentures as set forth in the Indenture. To the extent permitted by applicable law, deferred interest on the Debentures shall bear interest, compounded quarterly, at an annual rate of 5.75%, and shall be payable in the manner and at the times specified in the Indenture.
The indebtedness evidenced by this Debenture is, to the extent provided in the Indenture, subordinate and junior in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, and this Debenture is issued subject to the provisions of the Indenture with respect thereto.
 
 
 
 
The provisions of this Debenture are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed.
Dated:
 
 
 
This is one of the Debentures referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This is one of a duly authorized series of Debt Securities of the Company (herein sometimes referred to as the ""), all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture dated as of November 22, 2005 (the ""), duly executed and delivered between the Company and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of July 25, 2012, between the Company and the Trustee (the "," and the Indenture, as so supplemented, the ""), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Debentures. This Debenture is one of the series designated on the face hereof.
Debentures
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
All terms used in this Debenture that are defined in the Supplemental Indenture shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Supplemental Indenture. Any term used in this Debenture defined in the Base Indenture and not otherwise defined in the Supplemental Indenture shall have the meaning set forth in the Base Indenture.
The Company may redeem this Debenture at its option at any time in whole, or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the Indenture.
The Company may redeem all outstanding Debentures at its option in whole, but not in part, before July 25, 2017 at the redemption prices set forth in the Indenture if a Tax Event or Rating Agency Event occurs.
In case an Event of Default, as defined in the Supplemental Indenture, shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of all of the Debentures may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the entry into one or more supplemental indentures for purposes of amending or modifying the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Securityholders under the Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time outstanding of all series affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Debentures at the time
 
Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Debentures, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and the consequences thereof. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Debenture shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Debenture and of any Debenture issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Debenture.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of the Debentures, but the Company may require payment from the Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
THIS DEBENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT UNDER, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SAID STATE WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
 
 
The initial principal amount of this Debenture is $[            ]. The following increases or decreases in a part of this Debenture have been made:
 
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
1000 Stanley Drive
New Britain, CT 06053
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am Corporate Counsel to Stanley Black & Decker, Inc., a Connecticut corporation (the "Company"), and have represented the Company in connection with the Underwriting Agreement, dated July 18, 2012 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), among you, as representatives of the several Underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), and the Company, relating to the sale by the Company to the Underwriters of $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.75% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2052 (the "Debentures") to be issued pursuant to the junior subordinated indenture, dated as of November 22, 2005 (the "Initial Indenture"), between the Company and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 25, 2012 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Initial Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee. The Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Debenture Certificates (as defined below) are referred to herein collectively as the "Transaction Documents."
This opinion is being delivered in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act").
In rendering the opinions set forth herein, I have examined and relied on originals or copies of the following:
(a) the registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-178017) of the Company relating to debt securities and other securities of the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act on November 16, 2011, allowing for delayed offerings pursuant to Rule 415 of the General
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
July 25, 2012
Page 2
 
Rules and Regulations under the Act (the "Rules and Regulations"), including information deemed to be a part of the registration statement pursuant to Rule 430B of the Rules and Regulations (such registration statement being hereinafter referred to as the "Registration Statement");
(b) an executed copy of the Underwriting Agreement;
(c) an executed copy of the Indenture;
(d) the global certificates evidencing the Debentures registered in the name of Cede & Co. (the "Debenture Certificates") in the form delivered by the Company to the Trustee for authentication and delivery;
(e) the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company;
(f) the By-laws of the Company; and
(g) certain resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company, adopted October 25, 2005, October 13 and 14, 2011 and July 13, 2012, and the action by written consent of the sole member of the Special Securities Committee thereof, dated July 18, 2012.
I have also examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of such records of the Company and such agreements, certificates and receipts of public officials, certificates of officers or other representatives of the Company and others, and such other documents as I have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions set forth herein.
In my examination, I have assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to me as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies and the authenticity of the originals of such copies.
The opinions expressed herein are limited to the laws of the State of Connecticut and I do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law. The Indenture provides that it is governed by the laws of the State of New York. To the extent that the opinion expressed herein relates to matters governed by the laws of the State of New York, I have relied, with their permission, as to all matters of New York law, on the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP dated the date hereof, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 5.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, and my opinion is subject to the exceptions, qualifications and assumptions contained in such opinion.
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
July 25, 2012
Page 3
 
The opinions set forth below are subject to the following further qualifications, assumptions and limitations:
I have assumed that the execution and delivery by the Company of each of the Transaction Documents and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder do not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a default under (i) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its properties is subject, (ii) any law, rule or regulation to which the Company or any of its properties is subject (except that I do not make the assumption set forth in this clause (ii) with respect to Opined-on Law (as defined below)), (iii) any judicial or regulatory order or decree of any governmental authority or (iv) any consent, approval, license, authorization or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with any governmental authority.
My opinions set forth herein are limited to those laws of the State of Connecticut that, in my experience, are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Registration Statement and, to the extent that judicial or regulatory orders or decrees or consents, approvals, licenses, authorizations, validations, filings, recordings or registrations with governmental authorities are relevant, to those required under such laws (all of the foregoing being referred to as "Opined-on-Law"). I do not express any opinion with respect to the law of any jurisdiction other than Opined-on-law or as to the effect of any such non-Opined-on-Law on the opinions herein stated.
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, I am of the opinion that that when the Debentures have been duly authenticated by the Trustee and issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, the Debentures will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance or injunctive relief, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
 
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
July 25, 2012
Page 4
 
 
I hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as Exhibit 5.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated the date hereof. I also hereby consent to the use of my name under the heading "Legal Matters" in the prospectus which forms a part of the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, I do not thereby admit that I am within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. This opinion is expressed as of the date hereof unless otherwise expressly stated, and I disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any subsequent changes in the facts stated or assumed herein or of any subsequent changes in applicable law.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Donald J. Riccitelli
                
Donald J. Riccitelli
Corporate Counsel
 

Exhibit 5.2
July 25, 2012
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
1000 Stanley Drive
New Britain, CT 06053
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special New York counsel to Stanley Black & Decker, Inc., a Connecticut corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the Underwriting Agreement, dated July 18, 2012 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), among Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives of the several Underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), and the Company, relating to the sale by the Company to the Underwriters of $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.75% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2052 (the "Debentures") to be issued pursuant to the junior subordinated indenture, dated as of November 22, 2005 (the "Initial Indenture"), between the Company and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 25, 2012 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Initial Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee. The Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Debenture Certificates (as defined below) are referred to herein collectively as the "Transaction Documents."
This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
In rendering the opinions set forth herein, we have examined and relied on originals or copies of the following:
(a) the registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-178017) of the Company relating to debt securities and other securities of the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
July 25, 2012
Page 2
Securities Act on November 16, 2011, allowing for delayed offerings pursuant to Rule 415 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act (the "Rules and Regulations") including information deemed to be a part of the registration statement pursuant to Rule 430B of the Rules and Regulations (such registration statement, as so amended, being hereinafter referred to as the "Registration Statement");
(b) an executed copy of the Underwriting Agreement;
(c) an executed copy of the Indenture; and
(d) the global certificates evidencing the Debentures registered in the name of Cede & Co. (the "Debenture Certificates") in the form delivered by the Company to the Trustee for authentication and delivery.
We have also examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such records of the Company and such agreements, certificates and receipts of public officials, certificates of officers or other representatives of the Company and others, and such other documents as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions set forth below.
In our examination, we have assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such copies. In making our examination of executed documents, we have assumed that the parties thereto, including the Company, had the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform all obligations thereunder and have also assumed the due authorization by all requisite action, corporate or other, and the execution and delivery by such parties of such documents and, except to the extent expressly set forth in our opinion below, the validity and binding effect thereof on such parties. We have also assumed that the Company has been duly organized and is validly existing in good standing, and has requisite legal status and legal capacity, under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and that the Company has complied and will comply with all aspects of the laws of all relevant jurisdictions (including the laws of the State of Connecticut) in connection with the transactions contemplated by, and the performance of its obligations under, the Transaction Documents, other than the laws of the State of New York insofar as we express our opinion herein. We have also assumed that the terms of the Debentures have been established so as not to, and that the execution and delivery by the Company of the Transaction Documents and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder, do not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a default under (i) any agreement or instrument to which the
 
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
July 25, 2012
Page 3
 
Company or any of its properties are subject (except that we do not make the assumption set forth in this clause (i) with respect to those agreements and instruments which are listed in Part II of the Registration Statement or the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K), (ii) any law, rule, or regulation to which the Company or any of its properties are subject (except that we do not make the assumption set forth in this clause (ii) with respect to the Opined-on Law (as defined below)), (iii) any judicial or regulatory order or decree of any governmental authority or (iv) any consent, approval, license, authorization or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with, any governmental authority. As to any facts material to the opinion expressed herein that we did not independently establish or verify, we have relied upon statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and others and of public officials.
Our opinions set forth herein are limited to those laws of the State of New York that, in our experience, are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Registration Statement and, to the extent that judicial or regulatory orders or decrees or consents, approvals, licenses, authorizations, validations, filings, recordings or registrations with governmental authorities are relevant, to those required under such laws (all of the foregoing being referred to as "Opined-on Law"). We do not express any opinion with respect to the law of any jurisdiction other than Opined-on Law or as to the effect of any such non-Opined-on Law on the opinions herein stated.
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that, assuming the Debentures have been duly authenticated by the Trustee and issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, the Debentures will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
The opinion set forth above is subject to the following further qualifications, assumptions and limitations:
(a) the opinion stated herein is limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer, preference and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law); and
 
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
July 25, 2012
Page 4
 
(c) to the extent the opinion relates to the enforceability of the choice of New York law and choice of New York forum provisions contained in any Transaction Agreement, our opinion stated herein is rendered solely in reliance upon New York General Obligations Law sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 and Rule 327(b) of New York Civil Practice Law and Rules and are subject to the qualification that such enforceability may be limited by, in each case, the terms of such sections 5-1401 and 5-1402, as well as by principles of public policy, comity or constitutionality.
Donald Riccitelli, Corporate Counsel of the Company, may rely on this opinion, subject to the limitations and assumptions set forth in this opinion, as if it were addressed to them, in rendering his opinion dated the date hereof, which is to be filed herewith as Exhibit 5.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as Exhibit 5.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated the date hereof. We also hereby consent to the use of our name under the heading "Legal Matters" in the prospectus which forms a part of the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. This opinion is expressed as of the date hereof unless otherwise expressly stated, and we disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any subsequent changes in the facts stated or assumed herein or of any subsequent changes in applicable laws.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
 

Exhibit 8.1
July 25, 2012
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
1000 Stanley Drive
New Britain, Connecticut 06053
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
You have requested our opinion with respect to the U.S. federal income tax classification of the 5.75% Junior Subordinated Debentures ("") issued by Stanley Black & Decker, Inc., a Connecticut corporation (the ""), on July 25, 2012, as more fully described in the prospectus supplement dated July 18, 2012 (the ""), to the prospectus contained in the registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-178017), filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 16, 2011.
Debentures
Company
Prospectus Supplement
I.
Facts
 
The Debentures incorporate the following key terms.
 
The Debentures have a maturity of 40 years.
 
The Debentures are subordinated to all of the Company's senior indebtedness on the terms set forth in the subordinated indenture pursuant to which the debentures will be issued (the ""), and the Debentures rank pari passu with trade creditors and other subordinated indebtedness expressly stated to rank pari passu with the Debentures.
Subordinated Indenture
The Debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to 5.75%, payable quarterly in arrears. The Company may, so long as there is no event of default under the Subordinated Indenture, elect to defer interest payments on the Debentures for one or more consecutive interest periods at any time for up to 5 years (""). Interest may not, however, be deferred beyond the maturity date or the redemption date of the Debentures.
Optional Deferral
During any Optional Deferral, interest will compound quarterly on any interest deferred pursuant to the Optional Deferral right ("") and the Company will generally be prohibited from (i) paying dividends on any class of its equity, (ii) paying principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on, or repaying, repurchasing or redeeming any other classes of Company debt securities that rank equally with or junior to the Debentures or (iii) making any guarantee payments with respect to the securities described in (ii) (such prohibition on payments being referred to as a "").
Deferred Interest
Dividend Stopper
 
The Debentures are redeemable or otherwise repayable by the Company, in whole or in part, from the date of issuance until July 25, 2017, for cash at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accumulated and unpaid interest on a compounded basis and (ii) the sum of the present values of remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon for the remaining life of the Debentures plus accumulated and unpaid interest on a compounded basis, discounted to the redemption date on a quarterly basis at the applicable Treasury rate plus 50 basis points. Thereafter, the Debentures can be redeemed for cash at the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures to be redeemed plus accumulated and unpaid interest on a compounded basis, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company.
 
The Company may redeem the Debentures in whole, but not in part, from the date of issuance until July 25, 2017 at any time within 90 days after there is a Tax Event (as defined below), in cash at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accumulated and unpaid interest on a compounded basis. A Tax Event occurs if, as a result of a change in the tax law or any interpretation thereof, there is more than an insubstantial risk that interest paid or accrued on the Debentures is not deductible, in whole or in part, by the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
 
The Company may redeem the Debentures in whole, but not in part, from the date of issuance until July 25 2017 at any time within 90 days after the conclusion of any review or appeal process instituted by the Company following the occurrence of a Rating Agency Event (as defined below), in cash at a redemption price equal to 102% of the principal amount redeemed plus accumulated and unpaid interest on a compounded basis. A Rating Agency Event means a change to the methodology or criteria that were employed by an applicable rating agency for purposes of assigning equity credit to securities such as the Debentures on the date of initial issuance of the Debentures, which change either (i) shortens the period of time during which equity credit pertaining to the Debentures would have been in effect or (ii) reduces the amount of equity credit assigned to the Debentures by the applicable rating agency.
 
The Debentures will have no voting rights in the Company.
 
The Company's failure to pay principal or interest on the Debentures when due and the Company's bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or reorganization will result in a default on the Debentures. An event of default will give holders the right to accelerate principal and interest on the Debentures.
 
The Prospectus Supplement and the Subordinated Indenture provide that each holder of the Debentures will be deemed to have agreed to treat the Debentures as indebtedness for all U.S. federal, state and local tax purposes.
The Company has paid regular dividends on its common stock in each of the past 135 years, and the Company has increased dividends every year since 1968. The Company has assets and projected cash flows sufficient to demonstrate that it is capable of servicing the Debentures pursuant to their terms without exercising its right to Optional Deferral. The Company and its subsidiaries have aggregate liabilities of approximately $8,449.7 million and shareholders' equity of approximately $7,583.8 million as of July 2, 2011. The Debentures were issued with an investment grade debt rating of Baa2 provided by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. ("") and a debt rating of BBB+ provided by Standard & Poor's Corporation ("").
Moody's
S&P
 
II.
Certain Assumptions and Representations
 
In our examination, we have assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as certified, conformed, photostatic, electronic or facsimile copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents. In making our examination of documents executed, or to be executed, by the parties indicated therein, we have assumed that each party has, or will have, the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform all obligations thereunder, and we have also assumed the due authorization by all requisite action, corporate or other, and execution and delivery by each party indicated in the documents and that such documents constitute, or will constitute, valid and binding obligations of each party.
In connection with this opinion (the ""), we have examined and relied on originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the officer's certificate dated July 25, 2012 (the "") and such other documents, certificates and records as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the Opinion set forth herein. We have also relied upon statements and representations made to us by representatives of the Company and have assumed that such statements and the facts set forth in such representations are true, correct and complete without regard to any qualification as to knowledge or belief. For purposes of the Opinion stated herein, we have assumed the validity and the initial and continuing accuracy of the documents, certificates, records, statements and representations referred to above. We have also assumed that the transactions related to the offering of the Debentures will be consummated in the manner contemplated by the Prospectus Supplement. Terms used and not defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Prospectus Supplement.
Opinion
Officer's Certificate
 
An officer of the Company has provided the following representations in the Officer's Certificate that are relevant to the Opinion:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.
Summary of Conclusions
Generally, the characterization of an instrument as debt or equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the issuance and operation of a particular instrument, and no single factor or characteristic is considered to be controlling.
1
There is no controlling authority directly on point dealing with debentures that have terms similar to the Debentures.
Based on and subject to the description of the facts, assumptions, representations, and analysis set forth herein and in the Prospectus Supplement, it is our opinion that under current U.S. federal income tax law, the Debentures will constitute indebtedness of the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
 
 
In rendering our Opinion, we have considered applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""), pertinent judicial authorities, rulings of the Internal Revenue Service (the ""), and such other authorities as we have considered relevant. It should be noted that such laws, Code, Treasury Regulations, judicial decisions, administrative interpretations and such other authorities are subject to change at any time and, in some circumstances, with retroactive effect. A change in any of the authorities upon which our advice is based could affect our conclusions herein. There can be no assurance that our Opinion will be accepted by the Service or, if challenged, by a court.
Code
Treasury Regulations
Service
Except as set forth above, we express no other opinion. This Opinion has been prepared for you in connection with the filing of the Prospectus Supplement. It may not be relied upon by anyone else without our prior written consent. We consent to the Company filing this Opinion with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to the Prospectus Supplement and to the reference to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Commission. This Opinion is expressed as of the date hereof, and we are under no obligation to supplement or revise our Opinion to reflect any legal developments or factual matters arising subsequent to the date hereof, or the impact of any information, document, certificate, record, statement, representation, covenant, or assumption relied upon herein that becomes incorrect or untrue.
Sincerely,
/s/ Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
 


