FILE:MCO/MCO-8K-20030801165040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 1, 2003, the Company announced that Clifford L. Alexander, Jr. has informed the Company that he will retire as the non-executive chairman of its Board of Directors, effective October 1, 2003. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The Company does not intend for the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K to be considered filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference into future filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Table of Contents
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
NEW YORK  August 1, 2003  Moody's Corporation today announced that Clifford Alexander has informed the company that he will retire as the non-executive chairman of its Board of Directors, effective October 1, 2003.
Mr. Alexander's decision followed the Board of Directors' evaluation of a director retirement age policy. At its July meeting, the Board voted unanimously to reinstate the company's policy, suspended in connection with the separation of Moody's from Dun & Bradstreet, recommending that directors who reach age 70 retire from the Board. Mr. Alexander, who turns 70 later this year, has decided to retire prior to the expiration of his current term as a director, in accordance with the reinstated policy.
"Cliff Alexander inspired the successful launch of Moody's as an independent, public company at the time of the separation from Dun & Bradstreet almost three years ago," said John Rutherfurd, Jr., president and chief executive officer of Moody's Corporation. "Under Cliff's leadership, the company achieved outstanding growth and a substantial increase in shareholder value. We are very grateful for his many contributions to Moody's."
Mr. Alexander served as chairman and chief executive officer of the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation from October 1999 to October 2000. He was elected non-executive chairman of Moody's Corporation effective October 2000 following the separation from Dun & Bradstreet.
"My experience at Moody's has been extremely rewarding," said Mr. Alexander. "I am confident that the company, which I have had the pleasure of serving, has a tremendous business with strong management that generates great value for its customers, employees, and shareholders."
Moody's Corporation (NYSE: MCO) is the parent company of Moody's Investors Service, a leading provider of credit ratings, research and analysis covering debt instruments and securities in the global capital markets, and Moody's KMV, a credit risk management technology firm serving the world's largest financial institutions. The corporation, which employs more than 2,000 associates in 17 countries, reported revenue of $1.0 billion in 2002. Further information is available at .
http://www.moodys.com


