FILE:MCO/MCO-8K-20071026171013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 22, 2007, the Governance and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Moody's Corporation (the "Company") adopted the Moody's Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to offer its participants, which, if they elect to participate, will include the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and named executive officers, an opportunity to elect to defer the receipt of currently earned compensation in order to provide benefits that are not taxable until the time of distribution. As an additional incentive to participants, the Company will match participant contributions in certain circumstances and may make additional contributions based on the Company's earnings per share performance and (for employees not eligible to participate in the Moody's Corporation Retirement Account) retirement contributions. The Plan is intended to be a "top-hat" plan (i.e., an unfunded deferred compensation plan maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated employees) under Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). The Plan is intended to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The Plan will be effective as of January 1, 2008.
A copy of the Plan is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference as though it were fully set forth herein. The description above is a summary of the Plan and is qualified in its entirety by the complete text of the Plan itself.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 26, 2007
 

Exhibit 10.1
The purpose of the Plan is to offer Participants an opportunity to elect to defer the receipt of currently earned Compensation in order to provide benefits that are not taxable until the time of distribution. As an additional incentive to Participants, the Employer shall match Participant contributions in certain circumstances. The Plan is intended to be a top-hat plan ( an unfunded deferred compensation plan maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated employees) under Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). The Plan is intended to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code in order to avoid taxation of amounts deferred hereunder before such amounts are distributed from the Plan, and the Plan will be interpreted accordingly.
i.e.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


