FILE:MCO/MCO-8K-20110425165704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 19, 2011, the stockholders of Moody's Corporation (the "Company") elected Mr. Jorge A. Bermudez as a Class I director of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company to fill a vacancy. Mr. Bermudez's initial term will expire as of the Company's 2014 annual meeting of stockholders. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The voting results for the matters voted on at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on April 19, 2011 are as follows:
 
 
 
The Company's directors whose terms continued after the Annual Meeting are: Ewald Kist, Henry A. McKinnell, Jr., Ph.D., John K. Wulff, Basil L. Anderson, Darrell Duffie, Ph.D. and Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01, "Financial Statements and Exhibits"
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 25, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Moody's Corporation Elects Jorge Bermudez to Board of Directors
NEW YORK(BUSINESS WIRE) Moody's Corporation announced today that Jorge Bermudez has been elected to its board of directors. The election is effective April 19, 2011. Mr. Bermudez will serve as a member of the Audit Committee and the Governance & Compensation Committee of the Board.
Mr. Bermudez, 59, held numerous executive positions during a 33-year career with Citigroup, Inc., most recently as Chief Risk Officer. Prior to that he was Chief Executive Officer of the Commercial Business Group in North America and Citibank Texas; Senior Advisor for Citigroup International; Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup Latin America; Chief Executive Officer, eBusiness, Global Cash Management and Trade; and head of Citibank Corporate and Investment Bank, South America. Mr. Bermudez also held leadership positions in other divisions including equity investments, credit policy and corporate banking.
"Jorge Bermudez's distinguished career offers us a wealth of knowledge and expertise drawn from his extensive experience in risk management and his global business perspective on financial services," said Raymond McDaniel, Jr., Chairman and CEO, Moody's Corporation. "His background and expertise are a strong addition to Moody's board."
Mr. Bermudez is a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Houston Branch, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas and the Association of Former Students, Texas A&M University. He served as a director of Citibank N.A. from 2005 to 2008.
ABOUT MOODY'S CORPORATION
Moody's is an essential component of the global capital markets, providing credit ratings, research, tools and analysis that contribute to transparent and integrated financial markets. Moody's Corporation (NYSE: MCO) is the parent company of Moody's Investors Service, which provides credit ratings and research covering debt instruments and securities, and Moody's Analytics, which offers leading-edge software, advisory services and research for credit and economic analysis and financial risk management. The Corporation, which reported revenue of $2 billion in 2010, employs approximately 4,500 people worldwide and maintains a presence in 26 countries. Further information is available at .
www.moodys.com
Moody's Corporation
ANTHONY MIRENDA, 212-553-1316
Vice President
Global Communications
anthony.mirenda@moodys.com
or
SALLI SCHWARTZ, 212-553-4862
Vice President
Investor Relations
sallilyn.schwartz@moodys.com


