FILE:MCO/MCO-8K-20120424161125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information set forth under Item 2.03, "Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant" is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On April 18, 2012, Moody's Corporation (the "Company") and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a five-year senior, unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Facility") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A. as Co-Syndication Agents, and RBS Citizens, N.A. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. as Co-Documentation Agents, and other lenders in an aggregate principal amount of $1 billion that expires in April 2017. The Facility replaces the $1 billion 5-year facility that was scheduled to expire in September 2012. The proceeds from the Facility will be used for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, support for the Company's $1 billion commercial paper program, share repurchases and acquisition financings. Interest on borrowings under the Facility is payable at rates that are based on the London InterBank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a premium that can range from 77.5 basis points to 120 basis points depending on the Company's ratio of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio"), as set forth in the Facility agreement. The Company also pays quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the Facility. The quarterly fees for the Facility can range from 10 basis points of the Facility amount to 17.5 basis points, depending on the Company's Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio.
The Facility contains covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale-leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as set forth in the Facility agreement. The Facility also contains a financial covenant that requires the Company to maintain a Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio of not more than 4 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter. Upon the occurrence of certain financial or economic events, significant corporate events or certain other events of default constituting an event of default under the Facility, all loans outstanding under the Facility (including accrued interest and fees payable thereunder) may be declared immediately due and payable and all commitments under the Facility may be terminated. In addition, certain other events of default under the Facility would automatically result in amounts due becoming immediately due and payable and all commitments being terminated.
A copy of the Facility agreement is included as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 24, 2012
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of April 18, 2012, among MOODY'S CORPORATION, the BORROWING SUBSIDIARIES party hereto, the LENDERS party hereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. and CITIBANK, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, and RBS CITIZENS, N.A. and THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD., as Co-Documentation Agents.
The parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means (i) Lloyd's of London, so long as it is rated at least 3 crowns by S&P, (ii) an insurance company having an A.M. Best rating of "A-" or better or a Moody's rating of A3 or better and being in a financial size category of IX or larger (as such category is defined on the date hereof) or (iii) an insurance company otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Acceptable Insurer
"" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to the sum of (i) (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate , without duplication (ii) in the case of Loans by a Lender from its office or branch in the United Kingdom or any Participating Member State, the Mandatory Cost.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
plus
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (including its branches and affiliates), in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Administrative Agent
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified. No SPC of any Lender shall be an Affiliate of such Lender.
Affiliate
"" means (i) dollars and (ii) each Eligible Currency.
Agreed Currencies
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.14.
Agreement Currency
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1% and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) plus 1%, that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or on any successor or substitute page of such page) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate, respectively.
provided
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.14.
Applicable Creditor
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Available Facility Commitments represented by such Lender's Available Facility Commitment; that, in the case of Section 2.21 when a Defaulting Lender shall exist, "Applicable Percentage" shall mean the percentage of the total Available Facility Commitments (disregarding any Defaulting Lender's Commitment) represented by such Lender's Available Facility Commitment. If the Facility Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Facility Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments and to any Lender's status as a Defaulting Lender at the time of determination.
Applicable Percentage
provided
"" means, for any day, with respect to any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan or any ABR Revolving Loan, or with respect to the facility fees payable pursuant to Section 2.11, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Eurocurrency Spread", "ABR Spread" or "Facility Fee Rate", as the case may be, based upon the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio, as of the most recent determination date referred to below:
Applicable Rate
 
For purposes of the foregoing, (i) the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio shall be determined as of the end of each fiscal quarter of the Company's fiscal year based upon the Company's consolidated financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or 5.01(b) and (ii) each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a change in the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio shall be effective during the period commencing on and including the date of delivery to the Administrative Agent of such consolidated statements indicating such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change; , that if the Company fails to deliver the consolidated financial statements required to be delivered by it pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or 5.01(b), the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next above the Category then in effect until the resultant Default shall become an Event of Default, at which time the Applicable Rate shall be deemed to be Category 5 until such financial statements shall have been delivered.
provided
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04.
Approved Fund
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 10.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.08(d).
Augmenting Lender
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.04(c).
Auto Renewal Letter of Credit
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, an amount equal to such Lender's Facility Commitment at such time minus such Lender's Funded Revolving Credit Exposure at such time. If the Facility Commitments have terminated or expired, the Available Facility Commitments shall be determined based upon the Facility Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Available Facility Commitment
"" means with respect to the Facility Commitments, the Designated Currency Subcommitments or the Yen Subcommitments, as the case may be, the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Facility Commitments, the Designated Currency Subcommitments or the Yen Subcommitments, respectively, pursuant to Section 2.08 or Article 7.
Availability Period
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Administrative Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment, provided that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest, or the acquisition of any ownership interest, in such Person by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof, provided, further, that such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
Bankruptcy Event
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary.
Borrower
"" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type and currency, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect ("") or (b) a Swingline Loan.
Borrowing
Revolving Borrowing
"" means any Business Day specified in a notice pursuant to Section 2.03, 2.04 or 2.05 as a date on which the relevant Borrower requests Loans to be made hereunder.
Borrowing Date
"" means (a) in the case of a Borrowing denominated in dollars, $1,000,000 and (b) in the case of a Borrowing denominated in any Eligible Currency, the smallest amount of such Eligible Currency that (i) is an integral multiple of 1,000,000 units (or (x) in the case of Pounds Sterling, 500,000 units or (y) in the case of Yen, 100,000,000 units) of such currency and (ii) has a Dollar Equivalent in excess of $1,000,000.
Borrowing Minimum
"" means (a) in the case of a Borrowing denominated in dollars, $1,000,000 and (b) in the case of a Borrowing denominated in any Eligible Currency, 1,000,000 units (or (x) in the case of Pounds Sterling, 500,000 units or (y) in the case of Yen, 100,000,000 units) of such currency.
Borrowing Multiple
 
"" means a request for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" means, at any time, any Eligible Subsidiary of the Company designated as a Borrowing Subsidiary by the Company pursuant to Section 2.19 that has not ceased to be a Borrowing Subsidiary pursuant to such Section or Article 7.
Borrowing Subsidiary
"" means a Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit C.
Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement
"" means a Borrowing Subsidiary Termination substantially in the form of Exhibit D.
Borrowing Subsidiary Termination
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in the relevant Agreed Currency in the London interbank market or the principal financial center of such Agreed Currency (and, if the Borrowings or LC Disbursements which are the subject of a borrowing, drawing, payment, reimbursement or rate selection are denominated in Euro, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which the TARGET2 payment system is not open for the settlement of payments in Euro).
Business Day
provided
Business Day
Business Day
"" means (i) with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing, the date that is two (2) Business Days prior to the date of such Borrowing or, if applicable, the date of conversion/continuation of any Borrowing as a Eurocurrency Borrowing, (ii) with respect to the LC Exposure, the date of each request for the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit and (iii) with respect to all outstanding Credit Events, the last Business Day of each calendar quarter and, during the continuation of an Event of Default, on any other Business Day elected by the Administrative Agent in its discretion or upon instruction by the Required Lenders.
Calculation Date
"" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP; , , that, for the avoidance of doubt, any obligations relating to a lease that was accounted for by such Person as an operating lease as of the Effective Date and any similar lease entered into after the Effective Date by such Person shall be accounted for as obligations relating to an operating lease and not as Capital Lease Obligations.
Capital Lease Obligations
provided
however
"" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the SEC thereunder as in effect on the date hereof) (other than any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock in the Company) of shares representing more than 40% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company; or (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Company by Persons who were not (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Company or (ii) appointed by directors so nominated or appointed.
Change in Control
 
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement (or with respect to any Lender or Administrative Agent, if later, the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender or such Administrative Agent becomes an Administrative Agent), of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority, or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rules, guideline, requirement or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives thereunder, issued in connection therewith or in implementation thereof, and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law" regardless of the date enacted, adopted, issued or implemented.
Change in Law
provided
however
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.13.
Charges
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Dollar Loans, Revolving Designated Currency Loans, Revolving Yen Loans or Swingline Loans.
Class
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means each of RBS Citizens, N.A. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. in its capacity as co-documentation agent for the credit facility evidenced by this Agreement.
Co-Documentation Agent
"" means a Facility Commitment, a Designated Currency Subcommitment or a Yen Subcommitment.
Commitment
"" means Moody's Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its successors.
Company
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.20(b).
Consenting Lender
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
"" means each of Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A. in its capacity as co-syndication agent for the credit facility evidenced by this Agreement.
Co-Syndication Agent
"" means a Borrowing, the issuance of a Letter of Credit, an LC Disbursement or any of the foregoing.
Credit Event
"" means the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender or any other Lender.
Credit Party
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed, within two (2) Business Days of the date required to be funded or paid, to (i) fund any portion of its Loans, (ii) fund any portion of its participations in Letters of Credit or Swingline Loans or (iii) pay over to any Credit Party any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) has notified the Company or any Credit Party in writing, or has made a public statement to the effect, that it does not intend or expect to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement indicates that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) to funding a loan under this Agreement cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by a Credit Party, acting in good faith, to provide a certification in writing from an authorized officer of such Lender that it will comply with its obligations to fund prospective Loans and participations in then outstanding Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans under this Agreement, provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon such Credit Party's receipt of such certification in form and substance satisfactory to it and the Administrative Agent, or (d) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event.
Defaulting Lender
"" means Pounds Sterling, Euros and any other Eligible Currency that shall be designated by the Company in a notice delivered to the Administrative Agent and approved by the Administrative Agent and all the Designated Currency Lenders as a Designated Currency. The Company may specify in any notice delivered to the Administrative Agent with respect to the designation of any Eligible Currency one or more locations from which a Borrower may make payments of principal of or interest on any Multicurrency Loans in such Eligible Currency.
Designated Currency
"" means, with respect to each Designated Currency Lender, the commitment of such Designated Currency Lender to make Revolving Designated Currency Loans, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate Dollar Equivalents of the principal amounts of such Designated Currency Lender's outstanding Revolving Designated Currency Loans that may be outstanding after giving effect to any such Revolving Designated Currency Loans, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Designated Currency Lender pursuant to Section 10.04(b). The initial amount of each Designated Currency Lender's Designated Currency Subcommitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01(b) or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Designated Currency Lender shall have assumed its Designated Currency Subcommitment, as applicable.
Designated Currency Subcommitment
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01(b) and any other Person that shall have become a Designated Currency Lender pursuant to any Assignment and Assumption, other than a Person that ceases to be a Designated Currency Lender pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption.
Designated Currency Lenders
"" means (i) Moody's and (ii) any other Subsidiary designated as a "Designated Subsidiary" by the Company.
Designated Subsidiary
"" means the actions, suits and proceedings and other matters disclosed in the Company's Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC for the annual period ending December 31, 2011, and as disclosed on to the Disclosure Letter.
Disclosed Matters
Schedule 3.06
 
"" means the disclosure letter, dated as of the date hereof, delivered by the Company to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders.
Disclosure Letter
"" means, with respect to any Person, any Equity Interest in such Person that by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable, either mandatorily or at the option of the holder thereof), or upon the happening of any event or condition:
Disqualified Equity Interest
(a) matures or is mandatorily redeemable (other than solely for Equity Interests in such Person that do not constitute Disqualified Equity Interests and cash in lieu of fractional shares of such Equity Interests), whether pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise;
(b) is convertible or exchangeable at the option of the holder thereof for Indebtedness or Equity Interests (other than solely for Equity Interests in such Person that do not constitute Disqualified Equity Interests and cash in lieu of fractional shares of such Equity Interests); or
(c) is or may be redeemable (other than solely for Equity Interests in such Person that do not constitute Disqualified Equity Interests and cash in lieu of fractional shares of such Equity Interests) or is or may be required to be repurchased by such Person or any of its Affiliates, in whole or in part, at the option of the holder thereof;
in each case, on or prior to the date that occurs 91 days after the Maturity Date (or in the case of Loans that have been extended pursuant to Section 2.20, the last Maturity Date applicable thereto).
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" of any currency at any date shall mean (i) the amount of such currency if such currency is dollars or (ii) the equivalent amount in dollars of such currency if such currency is an Eligible Currency, calculated on the basis of the Exchange Rate for such currency, on or as of the most recent Calculation Date provided for in Section 1.05.
Dollar Equivalent
"" means any Borrowing Subsidiary organized under the laws of any jurisdiction in the United States of America.
Domestic Borrowing Subsidiary
"" means a Subsidiary organized under the laws of a jurisdiction located in the United States of America.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means, for any period, the consolidated net income of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries for such period , to the extent deducted in computing such consolidated net income for such period, the sum (without duplication) of (a) income tax expense, (b) Interest Expense, (c) depreciation and amortization expense and (d) extraordinary losses, and , to the extent added in computing such consolidated net income for such period, extraordinary gains.
EBITDA
plus
minus
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02).
Effective Date
"" means at any time (i) any Designated Currency, (ii) Yen or (iii) any other currency (other than dollars) that is (x) a lawful currency that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into dollars, (y) available in the London interbank deposit market and (z) agreed to by the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders.
Eligible Currency
 
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate undrawn and unexpired amount of all outstanding Eligible Currency Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate principal Dollar Equivalent of all LC Disbursements in respect of Eligible Currency Letters of Credit that have not yet been reimbursed at such time.
Eligible Currency LC Exposure
"" means a Letter of Credit denominated in an Eligible Currency.
Eligible Currency Letter of Credit
"" means $50,000,000.
Eligible Currency Sublimit
"" means (x) any Domestic Subsidiary and (y) any Foreign Subsidiary that is reasonably approved in writing from time to time by the Administrative Agent in consultation with the Lenders (such approval of the Administrative Agent not to be unreasonably withheld).
Eligible Subsidiary
"" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Company or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any of the foregoing; that "Equity Interests" shall not include Indebtedness for borrowed money which is convertible into Equity Interests.
Equity Interests
provided
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Company, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30 day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the
ERISA Event
 
withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
"" has the meaning assigned to the term "euro" in Section 10.15(a).
Euro
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurocurrency
"" of the Administrative Agent shall mean, for each Eligible Currency, the office, branch, affiliate or correspondent bank of the Administrative Agent for such currency as specified from time to time by the Administrative Agent to the Company and each Lender.
Eurocurrency Payment Office
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article 7.
Event of Default
"" means, on any day, with respect to any Eligible Currency, the rate at which such Eligible Currency may be exchanged into dollars, as set forth at approximately 11:00 a.m., Local Time, on such date on the Reuters World Currency Page for such Eligible Currency. In the event that such rate does not appear on any Reuters World Currency Page, the Exchange Rate with respect to such Eligible Currency shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be reasonably selected by the Administrative Agent or, in the event no such service is selected, such Exchange Rate shall instead be calculated on the basis of the arithmetical mean of the buy and sell spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent for such Eligible Currency on the London market at 11:00 a.m., Local Time, on such date for the purchase of dollars with such Eligible Currency, for delivery two Business Days later; , that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent, after consultation with the Company, may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Exchange Rate
provided
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise Taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income (including branch profits or similar Taxes) imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Lender or the Administrative Agent and the Governmental Authority imposing such tax (other than any such connection arising solely from such Lender or the Administrative Agent having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, this Agreement), (b) in the case of a Foreign Lender, any withholding Tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender to the extent they are in effect and would apply as of the date such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement or designates a new lending office (including withholding Taxes that would be imposed on payments made by a Borrowing Subsidiary the Relevant Jurisdiction with respect to which is the United Kingdom, regardless of whether the Company has designated such a Borrowing Subsidiary) (other than with respect to any Foreign Lender that is a Foreign Lender with respect to any Borrowing Subsidiary that is designated after the date of this Agreement (other than a Borrowing Subsidiary the Relevant Jurisdiction with respect to which is United Kingdom)), or that is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.16(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the applicable Borrower with respect to such withholding Tax pursuant to Section 2.16(a) and (c) any Taxes imposed under FATCA.
Excluded Taxes
 
"" means the Credit Agreement dated as of September 28, 2007 among the Company, the borrowing subsidiaries party thereto, the lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as documentation agent, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.20(b).
Extension Date
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 10.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Facility Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01(a), or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Facility Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Facility Commitments is $1,000,000,000.
Facility Commitment
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" of any Person means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of such Person.
Financial Officer
"" means any Borrowing Subsidiary that is not a Domestic Borrowing Subsidiary.
Foreign Borrowing Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any Loan, any Lender making such Loan that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the Relevant Jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means any Subsidiary that is not a Domestic Subsidiary.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum at such time, without duplication, of (a) the aggregate principal amount at such time of the outstanding Revolving Dollar Loans of such Lender, (b) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Revolving Yen Loans of such Lender, (c) the aggregate amount of the Dollar Equivalents of the principal amounts of the outstanding Revolving Designated Currency Loans of such Lender, (d) that portion of such Lender's Swingline Exposure attributable to Swingline Loans in respect of which such Lender has made (or is required to have made) payments to the Swingline Lender pursuant to Section 2.05(c) and (e) the LC Exposure of such Lender.
Funded Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
 
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04(d).
Granting Lender
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person (the ""), whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.08(d).
Increasing Lender
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.08(d).
Incremental Term Loan
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.08(d).
Incremental Term Loan Amendment
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (d) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business), (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing unconditional right to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed (the amount of any Indebtedness resulting from this clause (e) shall be equal to the lesser of (i) the amount secured by such Lien and (ii) the fair market value of the property subject to such Lien as determined in good faith by such Person), (f) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (h) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty issued by banks or other financial institutions and (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances created for the account of such Person. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Indebtedness
 
"" means Taxes imposed on or with respect to any payment made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrowers under this Agreement, other than (i) Excluded Taxes and (ii) Other Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.03(b).
Indemnitee
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.12.
Information
"" means a request by the relevant Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07.
Interest Election Request
"" means, for any period, (x) the interest expense of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP and including (i) the amortization of debt discounts to the extent included in interest expense in accordance with GAAP, (ii) the amortization of all fees (including fees with respect to Swap Agreements) payable in connection with the incurrence of Indebtedness to the extent included in interest expense in accordance with GAAP, and (iii) the portion of any rents payable under capital leases allocable to interest expense in accordance with GAAP minus (y) the interest income of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan (other than a Swingline Loan), the last day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date, (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period and the Maturity Date and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Loan is required to be repaid and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
"" means with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, or, if available by all Lenders, nine or twelve months thereafter, as the relevant Borrower may elect; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as the issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and its successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.04(i). The Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of the Issuing Bank, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.
Issuing Bank
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.14.
Judgment Currency
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.04(j).
LC Collateral Account
 
"" means a payment made by the Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn Dollar Equivalent of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate Dollar Equivalent of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Company at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01(a) and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption or as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender.
Lenders
"" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement.
Letter of Credit
"" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on, in the case of dollars, Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page and, in the case of any Eligible Currency, the appropriate page of such service which displays British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits in such Eligible Currency (or, in each case, on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in the relevant Agreed Currency in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two (2) Business Days prior to (or, in the case of Loans denominated in Pounds Sterling, on the day of) the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in the relevant Agreed Currency with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which deposits in the relevant Agreed Currency in a Dollar Equivalent of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two (2) Business Days prior to (or, in the case of Loans denominated in Pounds Sterling, on the day of) the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
"" means, with respect to any asset of any Person, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset of any Person, for the purpose of securing any obligation of such Person or any other Person, and (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset.
Lien
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" means (i) New York City time in the case of a Loan, Borrowing or LC Disbursement denominated in dollars and (ii) local time in the case of a Loan, Borrowing or LC Disbursement denominated in an Eligible Currency (it being understood that such local time shall mean London, England time unless otherwise notified by the Administrative Agent).
Local Time
"" is described in .
Mandatory Cost
Schedule 2.02
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations or financial condition of the Company and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Company to perform any of its payment obligations under this Agreement or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under this Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements, of the Company and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Company or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.
Material Indebtedness
"" means any Borrowing Subsidiary and any Subsidiary (a) the Total Assets of which exceed 10% of the Total Assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year or (b) the Net Revenue of which exceeds 10% of the Net Revenue of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year, that (i) any Subsidiary that directly or indirectly owns a Material Subsidiary shall itself be a Material Subsidiary and (ii) in the event Subsidiaries that would otherwise not be Material Subsidiaries shall in the aggregate account for a percentage in excess of 15% of the Total Assets or 15% of the Net Revenue of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year, then one or more of such Subsidiaries designated by the Company (or, if the Company shall make no designation, one or more of such Subsidiaries in descending order based on their respective contributions to such determination of Total Assets), shall be included as Material Subsidiaries to the extent necessary to eliminate such excess.
Material Subsidiary
provided
"" means April 18, 2017, subject to the extension thereof pursuant to Section 2.20 (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day); , that the Maturity Date for any Lender that is a Non-Consenting Lender to any requested extension pursuant to Section 2.20 shall be the Maturity Date in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date for all purposes of this Agreement.
Maturity Date
provided, however
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.13.
Maximum Rate
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Moody's
"" means a Borrowing comprised of Multicurrency Loans.
Multicurrency Borrowing
"" means a Revolving Loan denominated in Yen or in a Designated Currency.
Multicurrency Loan
"" means any Lender of a Multicurrency Loan.
Multicurrency Lender
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the net revenue of such Person and its consolidated subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP for such period.
Net Revenue
"" has the meaning specified in Section 10.02(d).
Non-Agreeing Lender
" has the meaning specified in Section 2.20(b).
Non-Consenting Lender"
 
"" means a promissory note made by a Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form approved by the Administrative Agent and the Company.
Note
"" means the obligations of each of the Borrowing Subsidiaries under this Agreement and the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreements with respect to the payment of (i) the principal of and interest on the Loans to each such Borrowing Subsidiary when and as due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, upon one or more dates set for prepayment or otherwise, (ii) all LC Exposure and (iii) all other monetary obligations of each of the Borrowing Subsidiaries hereunder and thereunder.
Obligations
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary Taxes or any other excise or property Taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement, except any Taxes that are imposed with respect to an assignment (other than an assignment made pursuant to Section 2.18 or 10.02(d)).
Other Taxes
"" means, for any amount payable in an Eligible Currency, the rate of interest per annum as determined by the Administrative Agent at which overnight or weekend deposits in the relevant currency (or if such amount due remains unpaid for more than three (3) Business Days, then for such other period of time as the Administrative Agent may elect) for delivery in immediately available and freely transferable funds would be offered by the Administrative Agent to major banks in the interbank market upon request of such major banks for the relevant currency as determined above and in an amount comparable to the unpaid principal amount of the related Credit Event, plus any taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed upon, or charged to, the Administrative Agent by any relevant correspondent bank in respect of such amount in such relevant currency.
Overnight Eligible Currency Rate
"" means, with respect to any Lender, any Person as to which such Lender is, directly or indirectly, a subsidiary.
Parent
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(c).
Participant
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(c).
Participant Register
"" means any member state of the European Union that adopts or has adopted the Euro as its lawful currency in accordance with legislation of the European Union relating to economic and monetary union.
Participating Member State
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
(a) Liens imposed by law for taxes, assessments and other governmental charges that are not yet delinquent or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04 and liens for unpaid utility charges;
(b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, landlords', repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 60 days or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
 
(c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations or employment laws or to secure other public statutory or regulatory obligations;
(d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business and deposits securing liabilities to insurance carriers under insurance or self-insurance arrangements;
(e) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Company or any Subsidiary;
(f) licenses, sublicenses, leases, or subleases granted to other Persons not materially interfering with the conduct of the business of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(g) banker's liens, rights of setoff or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with depository institutions; that such deposit accounts or funds are not established or deposited for the purpose of providing collateral for any Indebtedness; and
provided
(h) Liens arising by virtue of Uniform Commercial Code financing statement filings (or similar filings under applicable law) regarding operating leases entered into by any Borrower in the ordinary course of business.
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.01(d).
Platform
"" or "" means the lawful money of the United Kingdom.
Pounds Sterling
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04.
Register
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means (i) in the case of any Loan to the Company or any Domestic Borrowing Subsidiary, the United States of America, and (ii) in the case of any Loan to any Foreign Borrowing Subsidiary, the jurisdiction imposing (or having the power to impose) withholding tax on payments by such Foreign Borrowing Subsidiary under this Agreement.
Relevant Jurisdiction
 
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time.
Required Lenders
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.05(a).
Reset Date
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans (or the Dollar Equivalent thereof, in the case of Multicurrency Loans) and its LC Exposure and Swingline Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means a Borrowing comprised of Revolving Designated Currency Loans.
Revolving Designated Currency Borrowing
"" means the Loans made pursuant to Section 2.01(b) that are denominated in Designated Currencies.
Revolving Designated Currency Loans
"" means a Borrowing comprised of Revolving Dollar Loans.
Revolving Dollar Borrowing
"" means Loans denominated in dollars and made pursuant to Section 2.01(a). Each Revolving Dollar Loan shall be a Eurocurrency Loan or an ABR Loan.
Revolving Dollar Loans
"" means Revolving Dollar Loans, Revolving Yen Loans and Revolving Designated Currency Loans.
Revolving Loans
"" means a Borrowing comprised of Revolving Yen Loans.
Revolving Yen Borrowing
"" means the Loans made pursuant to Section 2.01(c) that are denominated in Yen.
Revolving Yen Loans
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC business.
S&P
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(e).
SPC
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve, liquid asset, fees or similar requirements (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves or other requirements) established by any central bank, monetary authority, the Board, the Financial Services Authority, the European Central Bank or other Governmental Authority for any category of deposits or liabilities customarily used to fund loans in the applicable currency, expressed in the case of each such requirement as a decimal. Such reserve, liquid asset, fees or similar requirements shall, in the case of dollar denominated Loans, include those imposed pursuant to Regulation D of the Board. Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to be subject to such reserve, liquid asset, fee or similar requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under any applicable law, rule or regulation, including Regulation D of the Board. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve, liquid asset or similar requirement.
Statutory Reserve Rate
 
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
"" means any subsidiary of the Company.
Subsidiary
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.02(c).
Successor Corporation
"" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Company or the Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement.
Swap Agreement
provided
"" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swingline Exposures at such time.
Swingline Exposure
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Lender
"" means a Loan in dollars made pursuant to Section 2.05.
Swingline Loan
"" means the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET2) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET2
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, fees, assessments, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means, at any date as to any Person, the total assets of such Person and its consolidated subsidiaries at such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Total Assets
"" means, at any date all indebtedness of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries at such date to the extent such items should be reflected on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company (excluding any such items which appear only in the notes to such consolidated balance sheet) at such date in accordance with GAAP.
Total Debt
"" means, at any time, the ratio of (a) Total Debt (net of unrestricted and unencumbered cash and cash equivalents maintained by the Company and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000) at such time to (b) EBITDA for the
Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio
 
most recent period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Company ended at or prior to such time. Solely for purposes of this definition, (i) if the Company or any of its consolidated Subsidiaries shall have completed an acquisition of all or a substantial part of the assets, or a going concern business or division, of any Person, or (ii) if the Company or any of its consolidated Subsidiaries shall have merged with any Person during such period or (iii) the Company or any of its consolidated Subsidiaries shall have disposed of all or a substantial part of its assets or a going concern business or division, in each case, EBITDA for the relevant period shall be determined on a pro forma basis as if such acquisition, disposition or merger, and the incurrence of any related Indebtedness, had occurred on the first day of such period.
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrowers of this Agreement and the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreements, the borrowing of Loans, the use of the proceeds thereof described in Section 3.13 and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" or "" refers to the lawful money of Japan.
Yen
"" means, with respect to each Yen Lender, the commitment of such Yen Lender to make Revolving Yen Loans, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate Dollar Equivalent of the principal amount of such Yen Lender's outstanding Revolving Yen Loans that may be outstanding after giving effect to any such Revolving Yen Loan, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Yen Lender pursuant to Section 10.04. The initial amount of each Yen Lender's Yen Subcommitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01(c) or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Yen Lender shall have assumed its Yen Subcommitment, as applicable.
Yen Subcommitment
"" shall mean the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01(c) and any other Person that shall become a Yen Lender pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a Yen Lender pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption.
Yen Lenders
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
Section 1.02. Classification of Loans and Borrowings. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (, a "Eurocurrency Loan") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurocurrency Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (, a "Eurocurrency Borrowing") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing").
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
Section 1.03. Terms Generally. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". The word "law" shall be construed as referring to all statutes, rules, regulations, codes and other laws (including official rulings and interpretations thereunder having the force of law or with which affected Persons customarily comply), and all judgments, orders and decrees, of all Governmental Authorities. Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall
 
be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, restatements, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any definition of or reference to any statute, rule or regulation shall be construed as referring thereto as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (including by succession of comparable successor laws), (c) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (subject to any restrictions on assignment set forth herein) and, in the case of any Governmental Authority, any other Governmental Authority that shall have succeeded to any or all functions thereof, (d) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (e) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (f) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Section 1.04. . (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Company notifies the Administrative Agent that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Company that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature used herein shall be construed, and all computations of amounts and ratios referred to herein shall be made (i) without giving effect to any election under Accounting Standards Codification 825-10-25 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any Indebtedness or other liabilities of the Company or any Subsidiary at "fair value", as defined therein and (ii) without giving effect to any treatment of Indebtedness in respect of convertible debt instruments under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any such Indebtedness in a reduced or bifurcated manner as described therein, and such Indebtedness shall at all times be valued at the full stated principal amount thereof.
Accounting Terms; GAAP; Pro Forma Calculations
provided
(b) All pro forma computations required to be made hereunder giving effect to any acquisition or disposition, or issuance, incurrence or assumption of Indebtedness, or other transaction shall in each case be calculated giving pro forma effect thereto (and, in the case of any pro forma computation made hereunder to determine whether such acquisition or disposition, or issuance, incurrence or assumption of Indebtedness, or other transaction is permitted to be consummated hereunder, to any other such transaction consummated since the first day of the period covered by any component of such pro forma computation and on or prior to the date of such computation) as if such transaction had occurred on the first day of the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the most recent fiscal quarter for which financial statements shall have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or 5.01(b) (or, prior to the delivery of any such financial statements, ending with the last fiscal quarter included in the financial statements referred to in Section 3.04(a)), and, to the extent applicable, to the historical earnings and cash flows associated with the assets acquired or disposed of and any related incurrence or reduction of Indebtedness. If any Indebtedness bears a floating rate of interest and is being given pro forma effect, the interest on such Indebtedness shall be calculated as if the rate in effect on the date of determination had been the applicable rate for the entire period (taking into account any Swap Agreement applicable to such Indebtedness).
 
Section 1.05.. (a) Not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on each Calculation Date, the Administrative Agent shall (i) determine the Exchange Rate as of such Calculation Date with respect to each Eligible Currency (A) in which any Lender or Lenders shall have extended a commitment to make Loans or (B) in which any Loan or Loans shall be outstanding and (ii) give notice thereof to the Lenders and the Company. The Exchange Rates so determined shall become effective on the first Business Day immediately following the relevant Calculation Date (a ""), shall remain effective until the next succeeding Reset Date, and shall for all purposes of this Agreement (other than Section 10.14 or any other provision expressly requiring the use of a current Exchange Rate) be the Exchange Rates employed in converting any amounts between dollars and Eligible Currencies.
Exchange Rates
Reset Date
(b) Not later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on each Reset Date and each Borrowing Date with respect to Multicurrency Loans, the Administrative Agent shall (i) determine the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of the Multicurrency Loans then outstanding (after giving effect to any Multicurrency Loans to be made or repaid on such date) and (ii) notify the Lenders and the Company of the results of such determination.
Section 2.01. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender, severally and not jointly, agrees to make Revolving Loans, denominated in dollars, to any Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period applicable to such Lender for the Facility Commitments in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (i) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Facility Commitment or (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Facility Commitments.
Commitments
(b) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Designated Currency Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans denominated in any Designated Currency to any Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period applicable to such Lender for the Designated Currency Subcommitments in an aggregate principal amount that, after giving effect to any requested Loan, will not result in (i) the aggregate amount of the Dollar Equivalents of the principal amounts of the Revolving Designated Currency Loans of any Designated Currency Lender exceeding such Lender's Designated Currency Subcommitment, (ii) the aggregate amount of the Dollar Equivalents of the principal amounts of all outstanding Revolving Designated Currency Loans and Revolving Yen Loans exceeding the Eligible Currency Sublimit, (iii) any Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Facility Commitment or (iv) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Facility Commitments.
(c) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Yen Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans denominated in Yen to any Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period applicable to such Lender for the Yen Subcommitments in an aggregate principal amount that, after giving effect to any requested Loan, will not result in (i) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Yen Loans of any Yen Lender exceeding such Lender's Yen Subcommitment, (ii) the aggregate amount of the Dollar Equivalents of the principal amounts of all outstanding Revolving Designated Currency Loans and Revolving Yen Loans exceeding the Eligible Currency Sublimit, (iii) any Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Facility Commitment or (iv) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Facility Commitments.
 
(d) Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
Section 2.02. . (a) Each Revolving Dollar Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans denominated in dollars and made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Available Facility Commitments. Each Revolving Designated Currency Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans denominated in the same Designated Currency made by the Designated Currency Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Designated Currency Subcommitments. Each Revolving Yen Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans denominated in Yen and made by the Yen Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Yen Subcommitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required. Any Swingline Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.05.
Loans and Borrowings
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.13, (i) each Revolving Dollar Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurocurrency Loans as the applicable Borrower may request in accordance herewith, (ii) each Revolving Designated Currency Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Eurocurrency Loans and (iii) each Revolving Yen Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Eurocurrency Loans. Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurocurrency Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan (and in the case of an Affiliate, Sections 2.13, 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16 shall apply to such Affiliate to the same extent as to such Lender); that (i) any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of any Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and (ii) unless any Borrower shall request that an Affiliate of a Lender make a Loan, a Lender may not recover for any increased costs under Section 2.14 or 2.16 incurred solely as a result of an Affiliate of such Lender, rather than such Lender, making a Loan, if, without economic disadvantage to, and consistent with the policies and practices of, such Lender, such Loan could have been made in a manner that would have avoided such increased costs under Section 2.14 or 2.16.
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Borrowing (other than a Swingline Loan), such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is at least equal to the Borrowing Minimum and an integral multiple equal to the Borrowing Multiple; that (i) a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing that is a Multicurrency Borrowing may be continued into a new Interest Period pursuant to Section 2.07 without regard to the foregoing and (ii) an ABR Revolving Dollar Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the aggregate Available Facility Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.04(e). Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $1,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of twenty (but no more than ten in any one currency) Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
provided
provided
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no Borrower shall be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
Section 2.03. . To request a Revolving Borrowing, the applicable Borrower, or the Company on behalf of the applicable Borrower, shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by (a) irrevocable written notice (via a written Borrowing Request in a form reasonably approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the applicable Borrower, or the
Requests for Revolving Borrowings
 
Company on behalf of the applicable Borrower) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in dollars, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing, (b) telephone, in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the same day as the proposed Borrowing and (c) irrevocable written notice (via a written Borrowing Request in a form reasonably approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by such Borrower, or the Company on its behalf) in the case of a Revolving Designated Currency Borrowing or a Revolving Yen Borrowing, not later than 4:00 p.m., London time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the applicable Borrower, or the Company on behalf of the applicable Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period", and the currency of such Borrowing, which shall be dollars, Yen or a Designated Currency; and
(v) the location and number of the relevant Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.06; and
(vi) in the case of a Borrowing in Yen or a Designated Currency, the location from which payments of the principal and interest on such Borrowing will be made, which will comply with the requirements of Section 2.17.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Dollar Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Dollar Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no currency is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, then the relevant Borrower shall be deemed to have selected dollars. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, then the relevant Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
Section 2.04. . (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, any Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit denominated in Agreed Currencies for its own account, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by any Borrower to, or entered into by any Borrower with, the Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.
Letters of Credit
General
(b) . To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit),
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
 
the applicable Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Issuing Bank) to the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the Agreed Currency applicable thereto, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the Issuing Bank, the applicable Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on the Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) subject to Sections 1.05 and 2.10(b) and (c), the Dollar Equivalent of the LC Exposure shall not exceed $300,000,000, (ii) subject to Sections 1.05 and 2.10(b) and (c), the sum of the Dollar Equivalent of the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall not exceed the total Facility Commitments and (iii) subject to Sections 1.05 and 2.10(b) and (c), the Dollar Equivalent of the total outstanding Revolving Loans and LC Exposure, in each case denominated in Eligible Currencies, shall not exceed the Eligible Currency Sublimit.
(c) . Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension) and (ii) the date that is five (5) Business Days prior to the Maturity Date; that any Letter of Credit may contain customary automatic renewal provisions agreed upon by the applicable Borrower and the Issuing Bank pursuant to which the expiration date of such Letter of Credit (an "") shall automatically be extended for consecutive periods of up to twelve (12) months (but not to a date later than the date set forth in clause (ii) above). Unless otherwise directed by the Issuing Bank, the applicable Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to the Issuing Bank for any such renewal. Once an Auto Renewal Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the Issuing Bank to permit the renewal of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the date set forth in clause (ii) above.
Expiration Date
provided
Auto Renewal Letter of Credit
(d) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the Issuing Bank or the Lenders, the Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from the Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate Dollar Equivalent available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by the Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the applicable Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
Participations
(e) . If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the applicable Borrower requesting such Letter of Credit shall reimburse such LC
Reimbursement
 
Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent in dollars the Dollar Equivalent equal to such LC Disbursement, calculated as of the date the Issuing Bank made such LC Disbursement (or if the Issuing Bank shall so elect in its sole discretion by notice to such Borrower, in such other Agreed Currency which was paid by the Issuing Bank pursuant to such LC Disbursement in an amount equal to such LC Disbursement) not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, on the Business Day immediately following the day that the such Borrower receives such notice; that, if such LC Disbursement is not less than the Dollar Equivalent of $1,000,000, such Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 or 2.05 that such payment be financed with (i) to the extent such LC Disbursement was made in dollars, an ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan in Dollars in an amount equal to such LC Disbursement or (ii) to the extent such LC Disbursement was made in an Eligible Currency, a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing in such Eligible Currency in an amount equal to such LC Disbursement and, in each case, to the extent so financed, such Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing, Swingline Loan or Eurocurrency Borrowing, as applicable. If such Borrower fails to make such payment when due, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from such Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from such Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from such Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and the Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve such Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement. If such Borrower's reimbursement of, or obligation to reimburse, any amounts in any Eligible Currency would subject the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender to any stamp duty, ad valorem charge or similar tax that would not be payable if such reimbursement were made or required to be made in dollars, such Borrower shall, at its option, either (x) pay the amount of any such tax requested by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the relevant Lender or (y) reimburse each LC Disbursement made in such Eligible Currency in dollars, in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent, calculated using the applicable Exchange Rates, on the date such LC Disbursement is made, of such LC Disbursement.
provided
mutatis mutandis
(f) . Each applicable Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, any Borrower's obligations hereunder. Neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor the Issuing Bank, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft,
Obligations Absolute
 
notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the Issuing Bank; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse the Issuing Bank from liability to any Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by such Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by any Borrower that are caused by the Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), the Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
provided
(g) . The Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. The Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the applicable Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether the Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve any Borrower of its obligation to reimburse the Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement.
Disbursement Procedures
provided
(h) . If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Company shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that any Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans (or in the case such LC Disbursement is denominated in an Eligible Currency, at the Overnight Eligible Currency Rate for such Eligible Currency the then effective Applicable Rate with respect to Eurocurrency Revolving Loans); that, if any Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.12(c) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse the Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest
plus
provided
(i) . The Issuing Bank may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Company, the Administrative Agent, the replaced Issuing Bank and the successor Issuing Bank. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of the Issuing Bank. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Company shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.11(b). From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of the Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor and all previous Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit then outstanding and issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
Replacement of Issuing Bank
 
(j) . If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Company receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders (or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure) demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Company shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders (the ""), an amount in cash equal to 105% of the Dollar Equivalent of the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that (i) the portions of such amount attributable to undrawn Eligible Currency Letters of Credit or LC Disbursements in an Eligible Currency that any Borrower is not late in reimbursing shall be deposited in the applicable Eligible Currencies in the actual amounts of such undrawn Letters of Credit and LC Disbursements and (ii) the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Company described in clause (h) or (i) of Article 7. For the purposes of this paragraph, the Eligible Currency LC Exposure shall be calculated using the applicable Exchange Rate on the date notice demanding cash collateralization is delivered to the Company. The Company also shall deposit cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph as and to the extent required by Section 2.10(b) and (c). Such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrowers hereunder. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Company's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the Issuing Bank for LC Disbursements for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrowers for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but subject to the consent of Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure), be applied to satisfy other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder. If the Company is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Company within three (3) Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived. If the Company is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder pursuant to Section 2.10(b), such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Company as and to the extent that, after giving effect to such return, the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposures would not exceed the aggregate Commitments and no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Cash Collateralization
LC Collateral Account
provided
Section 2.05. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans in dollars to any Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $100,000,000 or (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Facility Commitments; that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, any Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
Swingline Loans
provided
(b) To request a Swingline Loan, a Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from any Borrower. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to the relevant Borrower by means of a
 
credit to the general deposit account of the Company with the Swingline Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.04(e), by remittance to the Issuing Bank) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan (and if the applicable Borrower is a Borrowing Subsidiary, the Company shall make such funds available to such Borrowing Subsidiary) or to such other account as may be specified in the applicable Borrowing Request.
(c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the relevant Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from any Borrower (or other party on behalf of such Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to any Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the relevant Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
mutatis mutandis
provided
Section 2.06. . (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by (i) 12:00 noon, New York City time, in case of a Loan denominated in dollars, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders, (ii) 11:00 a.m., London time, in the case of a Revolving Designated Currency Loan, at the Administrative Agent's Eurocurrency Payment Office for such currency or (iii) 11:00 a.m., Tokyo time, in the case of a Revolving Yen Loan, at the Administrative Agent's Eurocurrency Payment Office for Yen; that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.05. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the relevant Borrower (i) in case of a Loan denominated in dollars, promptly (but in no event later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time), by crediting the amounts so received by 12:00 noon, New York City time, in like funds, to an account of the Company maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City, (ii) in the case of Revolving Designated Currency Loans, promptly (but in no event later than 3:00 p.m., London time), by crediting the amounts so received by 11:00 a.m., London time, in like funds, to an account of the Company maintained with the Administrative Agent in London, (iii) in the case of
Funding of Borrowings
provided
 
Revolving Yen Loans, promptly (but in no event later than 3:00 p.m., Tokyo time), by crediting the amounts so received by 11:00 a.m., Tokyo time, in like funds, to an account of the Company maintained with the Administrative Agent in London (in each case as designated by such Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request (and, if the applicable Borrower is a Borrowing Subsidiary, the Company shall make such funds available to such Borrowing Subsidiary)), or (iv) to such other account as may be specified in the applicable Borrowing Request; that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.04(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Issuing Bank.
provided
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the relevant Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and each Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the relevant Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (including without limitation the Overnight Eligible Currency Rate in the case of Loans denominated in an Eligible Currency) or (ii) in the case of such Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing and the Administrative Agent shall return to such Borrower any amount (including interest) paid by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this paragraph with respect to such amount.
Section 2.07. . (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the relevant Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. A Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued. Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein, this Section shall not be construed to permit any Borrower to (i) change the currency of any Borrowing or (ii) convert any Multicurrency Borrowing to an ABR Borrowing.
Interest Elections
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, a Borrower, or the Company on its behalf, shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election (by telephone or irrevocable written notice in the case of a Borrowing denominated in dollars or by irrevocable written notice (via an Interest Election Request in a form reasonably approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by such Borrower, or the Company on its behalf) in the case of a Borrowing denominated in an Eligible Currency) by the time and at the office at which a Borrowing Request would be required to be delivered under Section 2.03 if such Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form reasonably approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the relevant Borrower, or the Company on its behalf.
 
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then such Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the relevant Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing (unless such Borrowing is a Multicurrency Borrowing, in which case such Borrowing shall be continued at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing with an Interest Period of a duration of one month). Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Company, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing (except as set forth in clause (ii) (y)) and (ii) unless repaid (x) each Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing (other than a Multicurrency Borrowing) shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto and (y) each Multicurrency Borrowing shall be continued at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a Multicurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of a duration of one month.
Section 2.08. . (a) Unless previously terminated, the Facility Commitments, the Designated Currency Subcommitments and the Yen Subcommitments shall each terminate on the Maturity Date.
Termination, Reduction and Increase of Commitments
(b) The Company may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Facility Commitments, the Designated Currency Subcommitments or the Yen Subcommitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce (A) the Facility Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Facility Commitments, (B) the Designated Currency Subcommitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Revolving
provided
 
Designated Currency Loans would exceed the total Designated Currency Subcommitments, or (C) the Yen Subcommitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Revolving Yen Loans would exceed the total Yen Subcommitments.
(c) The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Facility Commitments, the Designated Currency Subcommitments or the Yen Subcommitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least one Business Day (or, to the extent a concurrent prepayment of Loans is required in accordance with Section 2.10, upon the minimum advance notice required in connection with such prepayment under such Section) prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Company pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Facility Commitments, the Designated Currency Subcommitments or the Yen Subcommitments delivered by the Company may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Company (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Facility Commitments, the Designated Currency Subcommitments or the Yen Subcommitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Facility Commitments, the Designated Currency Subcommitments or the Yen Subcommitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders, the Designated Currency Lenders or the Yen Lenders, as the case may be, in accordance with their respective Facility Commitments, Designated Currency Subcommitments or Yen Subcommitments, as applicable.
provided
(d) The Company may from time to time elect to increase the Facility Commitments or enter into one or more tranches of term loans (each an ""), in each case in minimum increments of $50,000,000 so long as, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of such increases and all such Incremental Term Loans does not exceed $250,000,000. The Company may arrange for any such increase or Incremental Term Loan to be provided by one or more existing Lenders (each such existing Lender, an ""), or by one or more new banks, financial institutions or other entities (each such new bank, financial institution or other entity, an ""), to increase their existing Facility Commitments, or to participate in such Incremental Term Loans, or extend Facility Commitments, as the case may be; that (i) each Augmenting Lender shall be subject to the approval of the Company and the Administrative Agent and (ii) (x) in the case of an Increasing Lender, the Company, the Administrative Agent and such Increasing Lender execute an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto, and (y) in the case of an Augmenting Lender, the Company, the Administrative Agent and such Augmenting Lender execute an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto. No consent of any Lender (other than the Lenders participating in the increase or any Incremental Term Loan) shall be required for any increase in Facility Commitments or Incremental Term Loan pursuant to this Section 2.08(d). Increases and new Facility Commitments and Incremental Term Loans created pursuant to this Section 2.08(d) shall become effective on the date agreed by the Company, the Administrative Agent and the relevant Increasing Lenders or Augmenting Lenders, and the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no increase in the Facility Commitments (or in the Facility Commitment of any Lender) or tranche of Incremental Term Loans shall become effective under this paragraph unless, (i) on the proposed date of the effectiveness of such increase or Incremental Term Loans, (A) the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) (including the representations and warranties set forth in Section 3.04(b)) and (b) of Section 4.02 shall be satisfied or waived by the Required Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated such date and executed by a Financial Officer of the Company and (B) the Company shall be in compliance (on a pro forma basis) with the covenant contained in Section 6.05 and (ii) the Administrative Agent shall have received documents consistent with those delivered on the Effective
Incremental Term Loan
Increasing Lender
Augmenting Lender
provided
 
Date as to the corporate power and authority of the Borrowers to borrow hereunder after giving effect to such increase. On the effective date of any increase in the Facility Commitments or any Incremental Term Loans being made, (i) each relevant Increasing Lender and Augmenting Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent such amounts in immediately available funds as the Administrative Agent shall determine, for the benefit of the other Lenders, as being required in order to cause, after giving effect to such increase and the use of such amounts to make payments to such other Lenders, each Lender's portion of the outstanding Revolving Loans of all the Lenders to equal its Applicable Percentage of such outstanding Revolving Loans, and (ii) except in the case of any Incremental Term Loans, the Borrowers shall be deemed to have repaid and reborrowed all outstanding Revolving Loans as of the date of any increase in the Facility Commitments (with such reborrowing to consist of the Types of Revolving Loans, with related Interest Periods if applicable, specified in a notice delivered by the applicable Borrower, or the Company, on behalf of the applicable Borrower, in accordance with the requirements of Section 2.03). The deemed payments made pursuant to clause (ii) of the immediately preceding sentence shall be accompanied by payment of all accrued interest on the amount prepaid and, in respect of each Eurocurrency Loan, shall be subject to indemnification by the Borrowers pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.15 if the deemed payment occurs other than on the last day of the related Interest Periods. The Incremental Term Loans (a) shall rank pari passu in right of payment with the Revolving Loans, (b) shall not mature earlier than the Maturity Date (but may have amortization prior to such date) and (c) shall be treated substantially the same as (and in any event no more favorably than) the Revolving Loans; that (i) the terms and conditions applicable to any tranche of Incremental Term Loans maturing after the Maturity Date may provide for material additional or different financial or other covenants or prepayment requirements applicable only during periods after the Maturity Date and (ii) the Incremental Term Loans may be priced differently than the Revolving Loans and may include amortization and mandatory prepayment provisions. Incremental Term Loans may be made hereunder pursuant to an amendment or restatement (an "") of this Agreement and, as appropriate, the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreements, executed by the Borrowers, each Increasing Lender participating in such tranche, each Augmenting Lender participating in such tranche, if any, and the Administrative Agent. The Incremental Term Loan Amendment may, without the consent of any other Lenders, effect such amendments to this Agreement and the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreements as may be necessary or appropriate, in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, to effect the provisions of this Section 2.08(d). Nothing contained in this Section 2.08(d) shall constitute, or otherwise be deemed to be, a commitment on the part of any Lender to increase its Facility Commitment hereunder, or provide Incremental Term Loans, at any time. Upon the effectiveness of any increase in Facility Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.08(d), Schedule 2.01(a) hereto shall be automatically amended to reflect such increase. It is understood that any increase in the amount of the Facility Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.08(d) shall not constitute an amendment or modification of this Agreement pursuant to Section 10.02.
provided
Incremental Term Loan Amendment
Section 2.09. . (a) Each Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan of such Borrower on the Maturity Date applicable to such Lender and (ii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan of such Borrower on the earlier of the Maturity Date applicable to the Swingline Lender and the day that is (x) no more than 15 days after such Swingline Loan is made (it being understood that day one will be the day after such Swingline Loan is made and if such 15
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
th
day is not a Business Day, such Swingline Loan will be due on the next succeeding Business Day) and (y) at least two Business Days after such Swingline Loan is made; that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans of such Borrower then outstanding.
provided
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
 
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type (and, in the case of a Multicurrency Loan, the currency) thereof and the Interest Period (if any) applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of any Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima facie
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, each Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and the Company. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by each such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 10.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
Section 2.10. . (a) Any Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing of such Borrower in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Section.
Prepayment of Loans
(b) If, on the last day of any Interest Period for any Borrowing, the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeds the total Facility Commitments, the relevant Borrower shall, on such day, prepay Revolving Loans or cash collateralize LC Exposure in an account with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.04(j), as applicable, in an amount equal to the lesser of (i) such excess and (ii) the amount of such Borrowing. If, on any Reset Date, the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeds 105% of the total Facility Commitments, then the Borrowers shall, on the next Reset Date, prepay one or more Revolving Borrowings or cash collateralize LC Exposure in an account with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.04(j), as applicable, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the excess, if any, of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures as of such next Reset Date over the total Facility Commitments.
(c) If, on the last day of any Interest Period for any Multicurrency Borrowing, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Multicurrency Loans exceeds the Eligible Currency Sublimit, the relevant Borrower shall, on such day, prepay such Multicurrency Borrowing or cash collateralize LC Exposure in an account with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.04(j), as applicable, in an amount equal to the lesser of (i) such excess and (ii) the amount of such Borrowing. If, on any Reset Date, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Multicurrency Loans exceed 105% of the Eligible Currency Sublimit, then the Borrowers shall, on the next Reset Date, prepay one or more Multicurrency Borrowings or cash collateralize LC Exposure in an account with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.04(j), as applicable, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Multicurrency Loans (as of such next Reset Date) over the Eligible Currency Sublimit.
 
(d) The relevant Borrower, or the Company on behalf of the relevant Borrower, shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurocurrency Revolving Dollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of a Eurocurrency Designated Currency Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Yen Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., London time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (iii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment, or (iv) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Facility Commitments, the Designated Currency Subcommitments or the Yen Subcommitments as contemplated by Section 2.08, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.08. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02 (other than any partial prepayment made concurrently with a reduction of the commitments permitted by Section 2.08(b), which may be in the amount necessary to comply with the condition to such reduction set forth in such Section). Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12 and break funding payments pursuant to Section 2.15.
provided
Section 2.11. . (a) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the Facility Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the date hereof to but excluding the date on which such Facility Commitment terminates; that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Facility Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Facility Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued facility fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Facility Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that any facility fees accruing after the date on which the Facility Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Fees
provided
provided
(b) The Company agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the same Applicable Rate used to determine the interest rate applicable to Eurocurrency Revolving Loans on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure and (ii) to the Issuing Bank for its own account a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate of 0.125% per annum on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) attributable to Letters of Credit issued by the Issuing Bank during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as the Issuing Bank's standard fees and commissions with respect to the
 
issuance, amendment, cancellation, negotiation, transfer, presentment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Unless otherwise specified above, participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on the third (3
rd
) Business Day following such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to the Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within ten (10) days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). Participation fees and fronting fees in respect of Letters of Credit denominated in dollars shall be paid in dollars, and participation fees and fronting fees in respect of Letters of Credit denominated in an Eligible Currency shall be paid in such Eligible Currency.
provided
(c) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Company and the Administrative Agent.
(d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent (or to the Issuing Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of facility fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
Section 2.12. . (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing (including each Swingline Loan) shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
Interest
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by any Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided above or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided above.
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period for the Facility Commitments), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment, (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion and (iv) all accrued interest shall be payable upon termination of the Facility Commitments.
provided
(e) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest (i) computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and (ii) for Borrowings denominated in Pounds Sterling shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365
 
days, and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.13. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be presumed correct absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders (or, in the case of a Revolving Designated Currency Loan or Revolving Yen Loan, as the case may be, Designated Currency Lenders or Yen Lenders, as applicable, having Designated Currency Subcommitments or Yen Subcommitments, as applicable, representing more than 50% of the Designated Currency Subcommitments or Yen Subcommitments, as applicable, at such time) that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; or
(c) in the case of a Multicurrency Borrowing, the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be presumed correct absent manifest error) that deposits in the applicable currency are not generally available, or cannot be obtained by the Multicurrency Lenders in the applicable market;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Company and the Lenders or the applicable Multicurrency Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Company and the Lenders or the applicable Multicurrency Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be ineffective, and any Eurocurrency Borrowing so requested to be continued shall, at the option of the Company, be repaid in full on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, or be converted to an ABR Borrowing denominated in dollars (and in the case of a Multicurrency Borrowing, such conversion shall be made at the Exchange Rate determined by the Administrative Agent on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto), (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing (other than a Multicurrency Borrowing), such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing and (iii) any request by any Borrower for a Multicurrency Borrowing shall be ineffective; that if the circumstances giving rise to such notice do not affect all applicable currencies, then requests for Eurocurrency Borrowings may be made in the currencies that are not affected thereby and, if the circumstances giving rise to such notice only affect one Type of Borrowing, then the other Type of Borrowing shall not be affected.
provided
Section 2.14. . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or the Issuing Bank;
(ii) impose on any Lender or the Issuing Bank or the London interbank market (or any other market in which the funding operations of such Lender shall be conducted with respect to any Eligible Currency) any other condition affecting this Agreement or Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein; or
 
(iii) subject the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender to any Taxes (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes, (B) Excluded Taxes (including any change in the rate of Excluded Taxes) and (C) Other Taxes) on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (including, without limitation, pursuant to any conversion of any Borrowing denominated in an Agreed Currency into a Borrowing denominated in any other Agreed Currency) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender in respect thereof hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Company will pay to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or the Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital or liquidity requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy and liquidity), then from time to time the Company will pay to such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank setting forth, in reasonable detail, the basis and calculation of the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this Section shall be delivered to the Company and shall be presumed correct absent manifest error. The Company shall pay such Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank the amount due under this Section within 10 days after receipt of the relevant certificate.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's, the Administrative Agent's or the Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that the Company shall not be required to compensate a Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than six months prior to the date that such Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's, the Administrative Agent's or the Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided further
 
Section 2.15. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default or as a result of any prepayment pursuant to Section 2.10), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the conversion of any Multicurrency Loan to a dollar denominated Loan pursuant to any Section of this Agreement, (d) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurocurrency Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice is permitted to be revocable under Section 2.10(d) and is revoked in accordance herewith), or (e) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, the Company shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event (and in the case of any conversion of Multicurrency Loans to dollar Loans, such loss, cost or expense shall also include any loss, cost or expense sustained by a Multicurrency Lender as a result of such conversion). In the case of a Eurocurrency Loan, the loss to any Lender attributable to any such event shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be equal, except as otherwise provided in the final parenthetical in the preceding sentence, to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that such Lender would pay for a deposit equal to the principal amount of such Loan (and in the same currency as such Loan) for the period from the date of such payment, conversion, failure or assignment to the last day of the then current Interest Period for such Loan (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the duration of the Interest Period that would have resulted from such borrowing, conversion or continuation) if the interest rate payable on such deposit were equal to the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period, over (ii) the amount of interest that such Lender would earn on such principal amount for such period if such Lender were to invest such principal amount for such period at the interest rate that would be bid by such Lender (or an affiliate of such Lender) for deposits in the same currency from other banks in the eurodollar market at the commencement of such period. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section, and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculation used by such Lender to determine such amount or amounts shall be delivered to the Company and shall be presumed correct absent manifest error. The Company shall pay such Lender the amount due under this Section within 10 days after receipt of the relevant certificate; that the Company shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any amounts under this Section 2.15 incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Company of such amount and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor.
Break Funding Payments
provided
Section 2.16. . (a) Any and all payments by or an account of any obligation of any Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if any Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
provided
(b) In addition, the Borrowers shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The relevant Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 15 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of any Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section), and any penalties, interest
 
and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Company by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by any Borrower to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) Each Lender that is not a United States person as defined in section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall, if legally able to do so, prior to the immediately following due date of any payment by the Borrower under this Agreement, deliver to the Borrower Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI, or, in the case of a Lender claiming exemption from U.S. federal withholding tax with respect to payments under this Agreement under section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code relating to payments of "portfolio interest", Form W-8BEN and a statement substantially in the form of Exhibit G, and any other certificate or statement of exemption or any subsequent version thereof or successors thereto, properly completed and duly executed by such Lender claiming complete exemption or a reduced rate of United States federal withholding tax. Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments under this Agreement pursuant to the law of a Relevant Jurisdiction, other than the United States of America, or under any treaty to which a Relevant Jurisdiction is a party shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
(f) If the Company determines in good faith that a reasonable basis exists for contesting an Indemnified Tax or Other Tax, the relevant Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, shall cooperate with the Company in challenging such Tax at the Company's expense if requested by the Company. If any Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, shall become aware that it is entitled to receive a refund in respect of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes pursuant to Section 2.16, it shall promptly notify the Borrower of the availability of such refund and shall, within 30 days after receipt of a request by the Borrower, apply for such refund if it is not otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender or the Administrative Agent. If any Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund (whether by way of a direct payment or by offset) of any Indemnified Tax or Other Tax for which a payment has been made pursuant to Section 2.16 or realizes any credit or other tax benefit as a result of the payment of such Tax by any Borrower, which refund, credit or tax benefit in the good faith judgment of such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, is allocable to such payment made under Section 2.16, the amount of such refund, credit or tax benefit (together with any interest received from the applicable Governmental Authority thereon) shall be paid to such Borrower, net of all out of pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); , that such Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to such Borrower or any other Person.
provided
 
(g) Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent, within 10 days after demand therefor, for (i) any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes attributable to such Lender (but only to the extent that the Borrowers have not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Borrowers to do so), (ii) any Taxes attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with the provisions of Section 10.04(c) relating to the maintenance of a Participant Register and (iii) any Excluded Taxes attributable to such Lender, in each case, that are payable or paid by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Agreement, and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to any Lender by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Each Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under this Agreement or otherwise payable by the Administrative Agent to the Lender from any other source against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this paragraph (g).
(h) If a payment made to a Lender under this Agreement would be subject to U.S. federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Company or the Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Company or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for the Company and the Administrative Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this paragraph (h), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
(i) For purposes of this Section 2.16, the term "Lender" includes the Issuing Bank.
Section 2.17. . (a) Each Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.09, 2.11, 2.12, 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16) prior to 1:00 p.m., New York City time (in the case of payments with respect to Revolving Designated Currency Loans, prior to 11:00 a.m., London time, or in the case of payments with respect to Revolving Yen Loans, prior to 11:00 a.m., Tokyo time), in the city of the Administrative Agent's Eurocurrency Payment Office for such currency, in each case on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made (i) in the case of amounts due in dollars, to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 10 South Dearborn Street, 7
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set offs
th
Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603 and (ii) in the case of amounts due in any Eligible Currency, to the Administrative Agent, at the Administrative Agent's Eurocurrency Payment Office for such currency, except that payments to be made directly to the Issuing Bank or Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and payments pursuant to Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 10.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise) shall be made in the applicable currency specified elsewhere herein or, if no
 
currency is specified, in dollars. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, if, after the making of any Credit Event in any Eligible Currency, currency control or exchange regulations are imposed in the country which issues such currency with the result that the type of currency in which the Credit Event was made (the "") no longer exists or any Borrower is not able to make payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders in such Original Currency, then all payments to be made by such Borrower hereunder in such currency shall instead be made when due in dollars in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent (as of the date of repayment) of such payment due, it being the intention of the parties hereto that the Borrowers take all risks of the imposition of any such currency control or exchange regulations.
Original Currency
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, to pay interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, to pay principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by any Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to any Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Company or the relevant Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the Issuing Bank hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute (or cause the Administrative Agent to distribute) to the Lenders or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the
 
Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (including without limitation the Overnight Eligible Currency Rate in the case of Loans denominated in an Eligible Currency).
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(d) or (e), 2.05(c), 2.06(b), 2.17(d) or 10.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), (i) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender and for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender or the Issuing Bank to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid and/or (ii) hold any such amounts in a segregated account as cash collateral for, and application to, any future funding obligations of such Lender under such Sections; in the case of each of (i) and (ii) above, in any order as determined by the Administrative Agent in its discretion.
Section 2.18. . (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Company hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, or if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, or if any Lender fails to approve any waiver or amendment to this Agreement which has been approved by the Required Lenders, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 10.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Company shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and if a Commitment is being assigned, the Issuing Bank), which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling such Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
Section 2.19. . On or after the Effective Date, the Company may designate any Eligible Subsidiary of the Company as a Borrowing Subsidiary by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement executed by such Subsidiary and the Company, and upon such delivery such Subsidiary shall for all purposes of this Agreement be a Borrowing Subsidiary and a party to this Agreement until the Company shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent a Borrowing Subsidiary Termination with respect to such Subsidiary,
Borrowing Subsidiaries
 
whereupon such Subsidiary shall cease to be a Borrowing Subsidiary and a party to this Agreement. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no Borrowing Subsidiary Termination will become effective as to any Borrowing Subsidiary at a time when any principal of or interest on any Loan to such Borrowing Subsidiary shall be outstanding hereunder, that such Borrowing Subsidiary Termination shall be effective to terminate such Borrowing Subsidiary's right to make further Borrowings under this Agreement.
provided
Section 2.20. (a) At least 45 days but not more than 60 days prior to the first and/or second anniversary of the Effective Date, the Company, by written notice to the Administrative Agent, may request an extension of the Maturity Date in effect at such time by one year from its then scheduled expiration. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, not later than 20 days prior to such anniversary date, notify the Company and the Administrative Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension. If any Lender shall fail to notify the Administrative Agent and the Company in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Maturity Date at least 20 days prior to such anniversary date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company not later than 15 days prior to such anniversary date of the decision of the Lenders regarding the Company's request for an extension of the Maturity Date.
Extension of Maturity Date.
(b) If all the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.20, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 (a) and (b), the Maturity Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable anniversary date (the ""), be extended for one year. If less than all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.20, the Maturity Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date and subject to subsection (d) of this Section 2.20, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a "") but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a ""). To the extent that the Maturity Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.20 and the Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.20 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Maturity Date without any further notice or other action by the Company, such Lender or any other Person; provided that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 10.03 shall survive the Maturity Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date. It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Company for any requested extension of the Maturity Date.
Extension Date
Consenting Lender
Non-Consenting Lender
(c) If less than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.20, the Company may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or other assignees to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lender's Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender; , , that the amount of the Commitment of any such assignee as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $5,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than $5,000,000, in which case such assignee shall assume all of such lesser amount; and that:
provided
however
provided
further
(i) any such Consenting Lender or assignee shall have paid to such Non-Consenting Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Loans, if any, of such Non-Consenting Lender (B) any accrued but unpaid facility fees owing to such Non-Consenting Lender as of the effective date of such assignment;
plus
 
(ii) all additional costs reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender; and
(iii) with respect to any such assignee, the applicable processing and recordation fee required under Section 10.4 for such assignment shall have been paid;
that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 10.03 shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution. At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such assignee, if any, shall have delivered to the Company and the Administrative Agent an Assumption Agreement, duly executed by such assignee, such Non-Consenting Lender, the Company and the Administrative Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Company and the Administrative Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment and (C) each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender. Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Consenting Lender or assignee, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
provided
further
(d) If (after giving effect to any assignments or assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.20) Lenders having Commitments equal to at least 50% of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Extension Date consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company, and, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 (a) (including the representations and warranties set forth in Section 3.04(b)) and (b), the Maturity Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional one-year period as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.20, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the "Maturity Date" shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each assignee for such Extension Date, refer to the Maturity Date as so extended. Promptly following each Extension Date, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of the extension of the scheduled Maturity Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such assignee.
Section 2.21. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
Defaulting Lenders
(a) fees shall cease to accrue on the Facility Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.11(a).
(b) the Facility Commitment and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment, waiver or other modification pursuant to Section 10.02); , that this clause (b) shall not apply to the vote of a Defaulting Lender in the case of an amendment, waiver or other modification requiring the consent of such Lender or each Lender affected thereby;
provided
 
(c) If any Swingline Exposure or LC Exposure exists at the time such Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender then:
(i) all or any part of the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall be reallocated among the non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages but only to the extent (A) the sum of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures plus such Defaulting Lender's Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure does not exceed the total of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Facility Commitments, (B) each non-Defaulting Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure does not exceed such non-Defaulting Lender's Facility Commitment and (C) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
(ii) if the reallocation described in clause (i) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Company shall within one (1) Business Day following notice by the Administrative Agent (x) , prepay such Swingline Exposure and (y) , cash collateralize for the benefit of the Issuing Bank only the Borrowers' obligations corresponding to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure (after giving effect to any partial reallocation pursuant to clause (i) above) in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.04(j) for so long as such LC Exposure is outstanding;
first
second
(iii) if the Company cash collateralizes any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure pursuant to clause (ii) above, the Borrowers shall not be required to pay any fees to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.11(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure during the period such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is cash collateralized;
(iv) if the LC Exposure of the non-Defaulting Lenders is reallocated pursuant to clause (i) above, then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.11(b) shall be adjusted in accordance with such non-Defaulting Lenders' Applicable Percentages; and
(v) if all or any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is neither reallocated nor cash collateralized pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) above, then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of the Issuing Bank or any other Lender hereunder, all facility fees that otherwise would have been payable to such Defaulting Lender (solely with respect to the portion of such Defaulting Lender's Facility Commitment that was utilized by such LC Exposure) and letter of credit fees payable under Section 2.11(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure shall be payable to the Issuing Bank until and to the extent that such LC Exposure is reallocated and/or cash collateralized; and
(d) so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender, the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan and the Issuing Bank shall not be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure and the Defaulting Lender's then outstanding LC Exposure will be 100% covered by the Facility Commitments of the non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Company in accordance with Section 2.21(c), and participating interests in any such newly made Swingline Loan or any newly issued or increased Letter of Credit shall be allocated among non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with Section 2.21(c)(i) (and such Defaulting Lender shall not participate therein).
If (i) a Bankruptcy Event with respect to a Parent of any Lender shall occur following the date hereof and for so long as such event shall continue or (ii) the Swingline Lender or the Issuing Bank has a good faith belief that any Lender has defaulted in fulfilling its obligations under one or more other agreements in which such Lender commits to extend credit, the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan and the Issuing Bank shall not be required to issue, amend or increase any
 
Letter of Credit, unless the Swingline Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, shall have entered into arrangements with the Company or such Lender, satisfactory to the Swingline Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, to defease any risk to it in respect of such Lender hereunder.
In the event that the Administrative Agent, the Company, the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Bank each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Facility Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Loans of the other Lenders (other than Swingline Loans) as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
The Company represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
Section 3.01. Each of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required.
Organization; Powers.
Section 3.02. The Transactions are within the Company's (and, as applicable, each Borrowing Subsidiary's) organizational powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational and, if required, stockholder action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, and each Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement with respect to any Borrowing Subsidiary (as to which a Borrowing Subsidiary Termination has not become effective) has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and such Borrowing Subsidiary and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrowing Subsidiary thereunder, in each case enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Authorization; Enforceability.
Section 3.03. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, and except for such consents, approvals, registrations, filings and other actions the failure to obtain or make could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, (b) will not violate any applicable law or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority, except for such violations which, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, except for such violations and defaults which, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries.
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.
 
Section 3.04. (a) The Company has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011 and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, in each case reported on by KPMG LLP, independent public accountants. Such financial statements (including notes thereto) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP.
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
(b) Since December 31, 2011, there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations or financial condition, of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, except as publicly disclosed by the Company prior to February 28, 2012.
Section 3.05. (a) Each of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes. There are no Liens on any such property other than Liens permitted under Section 6.01.
Properties.
(b) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, and the use thereof by the Company and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.06. (a) There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (i) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters) or (ii) that involve this Agreement, any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or the Transactions.
Litigation and Environmental Matters.
(b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
(c) Since the date of this Agreement, there has been no change in the status of the Disclosed Matters that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.07. . Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property (including without limitation any "margin" rules or regulations promulgated by the Board) and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
Compliance with Laws and Agreements
 
Section 3.08. Neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment Company Status.
Section 3.09. Each of the Company and each of its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all material Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes due with respect thereto, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Company or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes.
Section 3.10. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The present value of all accumulated benefit obligations under each Plan (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed the fair market value of the assets of such Plan by an amount that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and the present value of all accumulated benefit obligations of all underfunded Plans (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed the fair market value of the assets of all such underfunded Plans by an amount that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA.
Section 3.11. None of the reports, financial statements, certificates or other written information furnished by or on behalf of any Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or delivered hereunder or thereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), taken as a whole and when furnished, contain any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Company represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time so furnished (it being understood by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that any such projections are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of the Company or its Subsidiaries, that no assurances can be given that such projections will be realized and that actual results may differ materially from such projections).
Disclosure.
provided
Section 3.12. to the Disclosure Letter sets forth as of the date hereof a list of all Subsidiaries and the percentage ownership interest of the Company therein. As of the Effective Date, the shares of capital stock of such Subsidiaries will be fully paid and non-assessable and such shares and other ownership interests so indicated by to the Disclosure Letter will be owned by the Company, directly or indirectly, free and clear of all Liens.
Subsidiaries.
Schedule 3.12
Schedule 3.12
Section 3.13. The proceeds of the Loans shall be applied by the Borrowers in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08.
Use of Proceeds.
Section 3.14. On the date of the first Borrowing hereunder and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing, (a) the fair value of the assets of the Company, at a fair valuation, will exceed its debts and liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise; (b) the present fair saleable value of the property of the Company will be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of its debts and other liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and other liabilities become absolute and matured; (c) the Company does not intend to incur or does not believe it
Solvency.
 
will incur debts and liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, beyond its ability to pay such debts and liabilities as they become absolute and matured; and (d) the Company will not have unreasonably small capital with which to conduct the business in which it is engaged as such business is now conducted and is proposed to be conducted following the Effective Date.
Section 4.01. The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02):
Effective Date.
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy or other electronic transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received favorable written opinions (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of John Goggins, Esq., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special New York counsel for the Company, and covering such matters relating to the Company, this Agreement or the Transactions as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request. The Company hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinion.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Company, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Company, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the Chairman, the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Company, confirming that (i) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in this Agreement are true and correct as of the Effective Date and (ii) no Default has occurred or is continuing.
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Company hereunder.
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that all commitments to extend credit under the Existing Credit Agreement shall have been terminated and all amounts outstanding or payable thereunder shall have been repaid in full.
(g) The Lenders shall have received copies of all the financial statements referred to in Section 3.04, and all such financial statements shall be consistent in all material respects with other information previously provided to the Lenders.
(h) The Lenders shall have received a certificate of a responsible officer of the Company certifying that there are no actions, suits or proceedings (other than the Disclosed Matters) by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (i) as to which there is a reasonable
 
possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that involves this Agreement, any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or the Transactions.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
Section 4.02. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of the Issuing Bank to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event.
(a) The representations and warranties of the Company set forth in this Agreement (other than the representations and warranties set forth in Section 3.04(b)) and, in the case of a Borrowing by a Borrowing Subsidiary, the representations and warranties of such Borrowing Subsidiary in its Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement, shall be true and correct in all material respects (provided that any representation or warranty qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all respects) on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable (except to the extent any such representation or warranty expressly relates to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true and correct as of such earlier date).
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing, or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Company and, if applicable, the relevant Borrowing Subsidiary on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
Section 4.03. The obligation of each Lender to make Loans hereunder to any Borrowing Subsidiary is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Borrowing Subsidiary Credit Event.
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party thereto either (i) a counterpart of such Borrowing Subsidiary's Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy or other electronic transmission of a signed signature page thereof) that such party has signed a counterpart of such Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion of counsel for such Borrowing Subsidiary (which counsel shall be reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent), in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and covering such other matters relating to such Borrowing Subsidiary or its Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of such Borrowing Subsidiary, the authorization of the Transactions relating to such Borrowing Subsidiary and any other legal matters relating to such Borrowing Subsidiary, its Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or such Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
 
Until the Commitments have expired or have been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Company covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 5.01. The Company will furnish to the Administrative Agent:
Financial Statements and Other Information.
(a) within 70 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (or the number of days that is ten days more than such shorter period as may be required by the SEC), its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case comparative figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by KPMG LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
(b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company (or the number of days that is five days more than such shorter period as may be required by the SEC), its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year and statements of cash flow for the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case comparative figures for the corresponding periods of the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Company (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 6.05 and (iii) stating whether any material change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 affecting the Company and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate;
(d) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) above, a certificate of the accounting firm that reported on such financial statements stating whether they obtained knowledge during the course of their examination of such financial statements of any Default (which certificate may be limited to the extent required by accounting rules or guidelines);
(e) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other material reports (other than reports relating to employee benefit matters or employment plans) and proxy statements filed by the Company or any Subsidiary with the SEC, or any Governmental Authority
 
succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Company to its shareholders generally, as the case may be, and all material amendments to any of the foregoing; and
(f) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Company or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
Information required to be delivered pursuant to clauses (a), (b) and (e) of this Section 5.01 shall be deemed to have been delivered if such information, or one or more annual, quarterly or other periodic reports containing such information, shall have been posted by the Administrative Agent on an IntraLinks or similar site to which the Lenders have been granted access or shall be available on the website of the SEC at http://www.sec.gov; that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Company shall be required to provide copies of the compliance certificates required by clause (c) of this Section 5.01 to the Administrative Agent. Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section may also be delivered by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 5.02. The Company will, upon knowledge thereof by a Financial Officer or other executive officer, furnish to the Administrative Agent prompt written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events.
(a) the occurrence of any Default;
(b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Company or any Subsidiary thereof that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
(d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Company setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto. Information required to be delivered pursuant to clause (b) of this Section shall be deemed to have been delivered if such information, or one or more annual or quarterly or other periodic reports containing such information, shall have been posted by the Administrative Agent on an IntraLinks or similar site to which the Lenders have been granted access or shall be available on the website of the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section may also be delivered by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent.
Section 5.03. The Company will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted pursuant to Section 6.02.
Existence; Conduct of Business.
provided
 
Section 5.04. The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including material Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Company or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Obligations.
Section 5.05. The Company will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations; that any such insurance may be maintained through a program of self-insurance to the extent deemed prudent by the Company in its reasonable business judgment (which determination shall take into account the self-insurance practices customary among such companies, to the extent the Company has knowledge thereof without any investigation).
Maintenance of Properties; Insurance.
provided
Section 5.06. The Company will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in accordance with GAAP (or, the case of a foreign Subsidiary, generally accepted accounting principles in the jurisdiction of organization of such foreign Subsidiary). The Company will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent on its own initiative or at the request of the Required Lenders, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and independent accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested; that, unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, such visitation and inspection rights may only be exercised once per calendar year at the expense of the Company.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights.
provided
Section 5.07. The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property (including ERISA), except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws.
Section 5.08. The proceeds of the Loans will be used only for general corporate purposes, including without limitation back-up for the Company's commercial paper program, share repurchases and acquisition financings. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations U and X.
Use of Proceeds.
Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Company covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 6.01. The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except:
Liens.
(a) Permitted Encumbrances;
 
(b) any Lien on any property or asset of the Company or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof and set forth in to the Disclosure Letter and any modifications, renewals and extensions thereof and any Lien on such property or asset granted as a replacement or substitute therefor; that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of the Company or any Subsidiary other than improvements thereon or proceeds from the disposition of such asset and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof (other than by an amount equal to any costs and expenses incurred in connection with such extension, renewal, refinancing or replacement);
Schedule 6.01
provided
(c) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Company or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary or any Lien on any asset of any Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary and any modifications, renewals or extensions of such Lien on such property or asset; that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary or such merger, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of the Company or any Subsidiary other than improvements thereon or proceeds from the disposition of such asset and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary or the date of such merger, as the case may be, and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof (other than by an amount equal to any costs and expenses incurred in connection with such extension, renewal, refinancing or replacement);
provided
(d) any Lien on any asset (i) initially securing Indebtedness incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost of acquiring or constructing such asset or (ii) securing Indebtedness incurred to extend, renew, refinance or replace the Indebtedness then secured by such Lien, that (x) such Lien attaches to such asset concurrently with or within 180 days after the acquisition thereof or the completion of such construction and (y) the principal amount of Indebtedness secured by such Lien shall not be increased in connection with any extension, renewal, refinancing or replacement of such Indebtedness (other than by an amount equal to any costs and expenses incurred in connection with such extension, renewal, refinancing or replacement);
provided
(e) any Lien arising in connection with the financing of accounts receivable by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, that the uncollected amount of account receivables subject at any time to any such financing shall not exceed $150,000,000;
provided
(f) any Lien on any property sold or transferred pursuant to a transaction permitted under Section 6.04;
(g) in the case of any joint venture, any put and call arrangements related to its equity interests set forth in its organizational documents or any related joint venture or similar agreement;
(h) Liens on assets arising in connection with the sale or transfer of such assets in a transaction permitted hereunder and customary rights and restrictions contained in agreements relating to such sale or transfer pending the completion thereof;
(i) Liens on earned money deposits of cash or cash equivalents made in connection with any proposed acquisition or other investment not prohibited hereunder;
 
(j) any interest or title of a lessor under any lease or sublease entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of its business and other statutory and common law landlords' liens under leases;
(k) any interest or title of a licensor under any license or sublicense entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary as a licensee or sublicensee (A) existing on the date hereof or (B) in the ordinary course of its business;
(l) Liens in the nature of the right of setoff in favor of counterparties to contractual agreements with the Company or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business;
(m) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of business;
(n) any Lien in favor of the Company or any Subsidiary granted by the Company or any Subsidiary in order to secure any intercompany obligations;
(o) any Lien granted or arising in connection with any legal proceeding to the extent such proceeding has not resulted in an Event of Default under paragraph (k) of Article 7 or any Lien securing appeal or surety bonds related to such legal proceedings; and
(p) any Lien to secure Indebtedness and other obligations if, at any date, immediately after the incurrence thereof, the sum (without duplication) of all amounts secured by Liens which would not be permitted but for this clause (i) does not exceed $100,000,000.
Section 6.02. (a) The Company will not (i) merge or consolidate with any other Person or (ii) permit any Designated Subsidiary to merge or consolidate with any other Person, except that (1) the Company and any Designated Subsidiaries may merge into or consolidate with each other, (2) the Company may merge or consolidate with any other Person in accordance with subsection (c) and (3) any Designated Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with any other Person so long as the surviving entity of such merger or consolidation is a Designated Subsidiary. The Company will not, and will not permit any Designated Subsidiary to, liquidate or dissolve.
Fundamental Changes.
(b) (i) The Company will not sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or all or substantially all of the stock or other equity interests of any Designated Subsidiary and (ii) the Company will not permit any Designated Subsidiary to sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of the assets of such Designated Subsidiary and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, except (1) the Company and any Designated Subsidiaries may consummate any transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) with the Company or any other Designated Subsidiary and (2) the Company may consummate any transaction described in clause (i) in accordance with subsection (c).
(c) The Company may consummate any of the transactions described in clauses (a)(i) and (b)(i) of this Section if (i) the surviving corporation in any such merger or consolidation or the Person which acquires all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries or all or substantially all of the capital stock or other equity interests of a Designated Subsidiary shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia (the "") and shall expressly assume, pursuant to documentation in form reasonably satisfactory to the Required Lenders, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Loans and all other amounts payable under this Agreement and the
Successor Corporation
 
payment and performance of every covenant hereof on the part of the Company to be performed or observed; (ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and (iii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, (x) the Company and its Subsidiaries are in compliance, on a pro-forma basis, with the covenant contained in Section 6.05 recomputed as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Company, as if such transaction had occurred on the first day of each relevant period for testing such compliance and (y) the Company shall have delivered to the Lenders, at least 10 Business Days prior to the consummation of any such transaction, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Company certifying that the condition precedent set forth in clause (iii)(x) with respect to such transaction will be complied with and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations required to demonstrate such compliance and the assumptions used by the Company to make such calculations.
(d) The Company will not permit any Borrowing Subsidiary to merge, consolidate, liquidate or dissolve unless, in addition to the conditions set forth in clause (a) of this Section (if applicable), the surviving entity, or the entity into which such Borrowing Subsidiary liquidates or dissolves, is a Borrower and assumes all Obligations of such Borrowing Subsidiary.
(e) The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, engage to any material extent in any business other than businesses of the type conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the Effective Date and businesses reasonably related or complementary thereto.
Section 6.03. The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, unless such transaction is (a) on terms and conditions not less favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties (considering such transactions and all other related transactions as a whole), (b) approved by a majority of the disinterested members of the board of directors of the Company or (c) between or among the Company and its Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may do the following: (i) pay customary fees and indemnifications to directors of Company and its Subsidiaries; (ii) enter into, and may make payments under, employment agreements, employee benefits plans, stock option plans, indemnification provisions and other similar compensatory arrangements with officers, employees and directors of the Company and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business; (iii) enter into or make payments under leases or subleases of property in the ordinary course of business not materially interfering with the business of the Company and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole; and (iv) enter into any transaction with an Affiliate where the only consideration paid consists of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Equity Interests) of the Company.
Transactions with Affiliates.
Section 6.04. The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into any arrangement with any Person (other than a Subsidiary) whereby it shall sell or transfer any property used or useful in its business, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, and thereafter rent or lease such property or other property which it intends to use for substantially the same purpose or purposes as the property being sold or transferred, except for any such arrangement or arrangements with an aggregate sale price not exceeding at any time $100,000,000.
Sale and Lease-Back Transactions.
Section 6.05. The Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio will not exceed 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter.
Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio.
 
If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
(a) any Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement of such Borrower when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) any Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan of such Borrower or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable by such Borrower under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of three Business Days;
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Company or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement, any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof, or in any certificate or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement, any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
(d) the Company shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02(a), 5.03 (with respect to the Company's existence), 5.08 or in Article 6;
(e) the Company shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent (given at the request of any Lender) to the Company;
(f) the Company or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable (after giving effect to any grace period applicable thereto);
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to (i) secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness (so long as such Indebtedness is paid when due (or within any applicable grace period)) or (ii) any Indebtedness that is mandatorily prepayable prior to the scheduled maturity thereof with the proceeds of the issuance of capital stock, the incurrence of other Indebtedness or the sale or other disposition of any assets, so long as such Indebtedness is so prepaid in full with such proceeds when due (or within any applicable grace period) and such event shall not have otherwise resulted in an event of default with respect to such Indebtedness;
provided
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Company or any Material Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Company or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
 
(i) the Company or any Material Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Company or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) the Company or any Material Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
(k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $50,000,000 (excluding any amount of such judgment as to which an Acceptable Insurer has acknowledged liability) shall be rendered against the Company, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 60 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action, which shall not be effectively stayed, shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Company or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(m) the Company shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Article 9 or the guarantee of the Company hereunder shall not be (or shall be claimed by the Company or any Subsidiary not to be) valid or in full force and effect;
(n) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(o) (i) the Company shall have merged or consolidated with any Person or any Person shall have acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or all or substantially all of the capital stock or other equity interests of any Designated Subsidiary, (ii) either the Company or the Person with which it is merging or consolidating or the Person which is acquiring such assets or capital stock or other equity interests shall at the time of such merger or consolidation or acquisition have been rated by a rating agency and (iii) the Successor Corporation shall not have in effect a rating of at least Baa1 from Moody's or BBB+ from S&P on the 90th day following the consummation of such merger or consolidation or acquisition, as the case may be;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to any Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may (with the consent of the Required Lenders), and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Company, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and
 
thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Company described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrower; and in the case of any event with respect to any Borrowing Subsidiary described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, (i) the eligibility of such Borrowing Subsidiary to borrow shall thereupon terminate and (ii) the Loans of such Borrowing Subsidiary shall become immediately due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations thereunder of such Borrowing Subsidiary accrued thereunder, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrowing Subsidiary. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, exercise any rights and remedies provided to the Administrative Agent under this Agreement, any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or at law or equity.
Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Company or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by a Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or
 
therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article 4 or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for any Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and the Company. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor (and, at any time when no Default shall have occurred and is continuing, with the prior written consent of the Company). If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.03 shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
 
In order to induce the Lenders to extend credit hereunder, the Company hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, the Obligations. The Company further agrees that the due and punctual payment of the Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its Guarantee hereunder notwithstanding any such extension or renewal of any Obligation.
The Company waives presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to any Borrowing Subsidiary of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its obligations and notice of protest for nonpayment. The obligations of the Company hereunder shall not be affected by (a) the failure of any Lender, the Issuing Bank or the Administrative Agent to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against any Borrowing Subsidiary under the provisions of this Agreement or otherwise; (b) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement, any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or any other agreement; or (c) the failure of any Lender to exercise any right or remedy against any Borrowing Subsidiary.
The Company further agrees that its agreement hereunder constitutes a promise of payment when due (whether or not any bankruptcy or similar proceeding shall have stayed the accrual or collection of any of the Obligations or operated as a discharge thereof) and not merely of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Lender to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of any Lender in favor of any Borrower or any other person.
The obligations of the Company hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, and shall not be subject to any defense or setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever, by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations, any impossibility in the performance of the Obligations or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of the Company hereunder shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by the failure of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under this Agreement or any other agreement, by any waiver or modification in respect of any thereof, by any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations, or by any other act or omission which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of the Company or otherwise operate as a discharge of the Company or any other Borrower as a matter of law or equity. The Company hereby irrevocably waives any defenses it may now or hereafter acquire in any way relating to, any law, regulation, decree or order of any jurisdiction, or any other event, affecting any term of any Obligation.
The Company further agrees that its obligations hereunder shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any Obligation is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of any Borrower or otherwise.
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may have at law or in equity against the Company by virtue hereof, upon the failure of any Borrowing Subsidiary to pay any Obligation when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, the Company hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Administrative Agent, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash the amount of such unpaid Obligation. The Company further agrees that if payment in respect of any Obligation shall be due in a currency other than dollars and/or at a place of payment other than New York and if, by reason of any Change in Law, disruption of currency or foreign
 
exchange markets, war or civil disturbance or similar event, payment of such Obligation in such currency or at such place of payment shall be impossible or, in the judgment of any applicable Lender, not consistent with the protection of its rights or interests, then, at the election of any applicable Lender, the Company shall make payment of such Obligation in dollars (based upon the applicable exchange rate in effect on the date of payment) and/or in New York, and shall indemnify such Lender against any losses or expenses that it shall sustain as a result of such alternative payment.
Upon payment by the Company of any Obligation, each Lender shall, in a reasonable manner, assign the amount of such Obligation owed to it and so paid to the Company, such assignment to be to the extent to which the Obligation in question was discharged by the Company, or make such disposition thereof as the Company shall direct (all without recourse to any Lender and without any representation or warranty by any Lender).
pro tanto
Upon payment by the Company of any sums as provided above, all rights of the Company against any Borrowing Subsidiary arising as a result thereof by way of right of subrogation or otherwise shall in all respects be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the prior indefeasible payment in full of all the Obligations owed by such Borrowing Subsidiary to the Lenders.
None of the Co-Syndication Agents and the Co-Documentation Agents, in their capacities as such, shall have any duties or obligations of any kind under this Agreement.
Section 10.01. . (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
(i) if to any Borrower, to it in care of the Company, at 7 World Trade Center, 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10007, Attention of Jeffrey Hare (Telecopy No. (212) 298-7364), with a copy to Elizabeth McCarroll (Telecopy No. (212) 298-6025) and Richard Li (Telecopy No. (212) 298-7177);
(ii) if to the Administrative Agent, (A) in the case of Borrowings denominated in dollars, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 10 South Dearborn Street, 7
th
Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention of Joyce King (Telecopy No. (312) 385-7025) and (B) in the case of Borrowings denominated in Eligible Currencies, to J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, 125 London Wall, London EC2Y 5AJ, Attention of The Manager, Loan & Agency Services (Telecopy No. 44 207 777 2360), and in each case with a copy to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, Attention of Michelle Cipriani (Telecopy No. (646) 543-0698);
(iii) if to the Issuing Bank, to it at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 10 South Dearborn Street, 7
th
Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention of Debra C. Williams (Telecopy No. (312) 732-2590);
(iv) if to the Swingline Lender, to it at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 10 South Dearborn Street, 7
th
Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention of Joyce King (Telecopy No. (312) 385-7025); and
 
(v) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
(b) Subject to clause (d) below, notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article 2 unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications (including in lieu of telecopy) pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
provided
(c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto (or, in the case of a Lender, by notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent). All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
(d) So long as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or any of its Affiliates is the Administrative Agent, materials required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a), (b) and (e) shall be delivered to the Administrative Agent in an electronic medium to the extent reasonably practicable in a format reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders. The Company agrees that the Administrative Agent may make such materials, as well as any other written information, documents, instruments and other material relating to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any other materials or matters relating to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the transactions contemplated hereby other than notices pursuant to Article 2 unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender (collectively, the "") available to the Lenders by posting such notices on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system (the ""). The Company acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform is provided "as is" and "as available" and (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the Communications or the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications or the Platform except to the extent such errors or omissions are caused by the Administrative Agent's or its Affiliates' gross negligence or willful misconduct. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform.
Communications
Platform
(e) Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a "") specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent in writing of such Lender's e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
Notice
Section 10.02. . (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the
Waivers; Amendments
 
Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
(b) Except as provided in Section 2.08(d) with respect to an increase in the Facility Commitments or an Incremental Term Loan Amendment and Section 2.20 with respect to an extension of the Maturity Date, neither this Agreement nor any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement nor any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Company and the Required Lenders or by the Company and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders (and, in the case of a Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement, the applicable Borrowing Subsidiary); that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; that any amendment to the financial covenant definitions in this Agreement shall not constitute a reduction in the rate of interest for purposes of this clause (ii) even if the effect of such amendment would be to reduce the rate of interest on any Loan or any LC Disbursement or to reduce any fee payable hereunder, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.17(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender (it being understood that, solely with the consent of the parties prescribed by Section 2.08(d) to be parties to an Incremental Term Loan Amendment, Incremental Term Loans may be included in the determination of Required Lenders on substantially the same basis as the Commitments and the Revolving Loans are included on the Effective Date) or (vi) release the Company from, or limit or condition, its obligations under Article 9, without the written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be.
provided
provided
provided further
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may be amended (or amended and restated) with the written consent of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Borrowers (x) to add one or more credit facilities (in addition to the Incremental Term Loans pursuant to an Incremental Term Loan Amendment) to this Agreement and to permit extensions of credit from time to time outstanding thereunder and the accrued interest and fees in respect thereof to share ratably in the benefits of this Agreement with the Revolving Loans, Incremental Term Loans and the accrued interest and fees in respect thereof and (y) to include appropriately the Lenders holding such credit facilities in any determination of the Required Lenders and Lenders.
(d) If, in connection with any proposed amendment, waiver or consent requiring the consent of "each Lender" or "each Lender directly affected thereby," the consent of the Required Lenders is obtained, but the consent of other necessary Lenders is not obtained (any such Lender whose consent is
 
necessary but not obtained being referred to herein as a ""), then the Company may elect to replace a Non-Agreeing Lender as a Lender party to this Agreement, provided that, concurrently with such replacement, (i) another bank or other entity which is reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Administrative Agent shall agree, as of such date, to purchase for cash the Loans and other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder due to the Non-Agreeing Lender pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption and to become a Lender for all purposes under this Agreement and to assume all obligations of the Non-Agreeing Lender to be terminated as of such date and to comply with the requirements of clause (b) of Section 10.04, and (ii) each Borrower shall pay to such Non-Agreeing Lender in same day funds on the day of such replacement (1) all interest, fees and other amounts then accrued but unpaid to such Non-Agreeing Lender by such Borrower hereunder to and including the date of termination, including without limitation payments due to such Non-Agreeing Lender under Sections 2.14 and 2.16, and (2) an amount, if any, equal to the payment which would have been due to such Lender on the day of such replacement under Section 2.15 had the Loans of such Non-Agreeing Lender been prepaid on such date rather than sold to the replacement Lender.
Non-Agreeing Lender
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein the Administrative Agent may, with the consent of the Borrowers only, amend, modify or supplement this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement to cure any ambiguity, omission, mistake, defect or inconsistency.
Section 10.03. . (a) The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one primary counsel and one additional local counsel in each applicable jurisdiction for the Administrative Agent and additional counsel in light of actual or potential conflicts of interest or the availability of different claims or defenses, in connection with the syndication and distribution (including via the internet or through a service such as Intralinks) of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) (ii) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of no more than one counsel for the Administrative Agent and one counsel for the Lenders (unless representation of the Lenders by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential conflicts of interests among them, in which case the Lenders shall have right to separate counsel, at the expense of the Company) in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including in connection with any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect thereof.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(b) The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto or thereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms
Indemnitee
 
of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory whether brought by a third party or by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or any of its Related Parties.
provided
(c) To the extent that the Company fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount (it being understood that the Company's failure to pay any such amount shall not relieve the Company of any default in the payment thereof); that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, no Borrower shall assert, and each Borrower hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee (i) for any damages arising from the use by others of information or other materials obtained through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems (including the Internet) other than damages that are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or any of its Related Parties, or (ii) on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
Section 10.04. . (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto (including any Borrowing Subsidiaries) and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) no Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder or under any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by any Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns
 
(b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) of:
(A) the Company(provided that the Company shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within ten (10) Business Days after having received notice thereof); , , that no consent of the Company shall be required for an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default under clauses (a), (b), (h), (i) or (j) of Article 7 has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee;
provided
further
(B) the Administrative Agent; and
(C) the Issuing Bank.
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A) except in the case of any assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 and increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof unless each of the Company and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent; that no consent of the Company shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
provided
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement;
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, such fee to be paid by either the assigning Lender or the assignee Lender or shared between such Lenders;
(D) if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the assigning Lender shall provide prior written notice to the Company of such assignment; that the failure of provide such notice shall not in any way affect the validity of such assignment;
provided
(E) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more credit contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Company and its affiliates and their Related Parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws; and
(F) no assignment shall be made to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or a natural person.
 
For the purposes of this Section 10.04(b), the term "" has the following meaning:
Approved Fund
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14, Section 2.15, Section 2.16 and Section 10.03). Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall assign any of its rights or obligations hereunder to any assignee (including an Affiliate of such Lender) that, but for this sentence, would be entitled, immediately following such assignment, to claim a greater amount than such assigning Lender under Section 2.14, Section 2.15 and Section 2.16, such assignee shall not have the right to claim such greater amount; that nothing in this sentence shall limit the right of any such assignee to make claims (x) for amounts not in excess of those that could have been claimed by the assigning Lender, (y) to the extent such claims arise from one or more Changes in Law, or from the designation of one or more Borrowing Subsidiaries, or (z) from a change in the office, branch or other place of business from which any payment hereunder is made by any Borrower, in each case after the date of such assignment. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 10.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with and subject to the limitations set forth in, paragraph (c) of this Section.
provided
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as a non-fiduciary agent of the Borrowers shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of and stated interest on the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive (absent manifest error), and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Company, the Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice, and the Company may at any time request that the Administrative Agent provide a list of Lenders as of the date of such request.
Register
(v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register; that if either
provided
 
the assigning Lender or the assignee shall have failed to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(d) or (e), 2.05(c), 2.06(b), 2.17(d) or 10.03(c), the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information therein in the Register unless and until such payment shall have been made in full, together with all accrued interest thereon. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(c) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of any Borrower, the Issuing Bank, the Administrative Agent or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 10.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14, Section 2.15, and Section 2.16, to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 10.08 as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.17(c) as though it were a Lender. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Commitments, Loans, Letters of Credit or other obligations under this Agreement (the ); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Commitments, Loans, Letters of Credit or its other obligations under this Agreement) to any Person except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Commitment, Loan, Letter of Credit or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary. For the avoidance of doubt, the Administrative Agent (in its capacity as Administrative Agent) shall have no responsibility for maintaining a Participant Register.
Participant
provided
provided
provided
"Participant Register"
provided
(ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14, Section 2.15 or Section 2.16, and than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16, unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with Section 2.16(e) as though it were a Lender.
(d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any such pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such
 
pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (an "") of such Granting Lender, identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Company, the option to provide to the Company all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.01, that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment to make any Loan by any SPC, (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof and (iii) all credit decisions (including without limitation any decisions with respect to amendments and waivers) will continue to be made by the Granting Lender. The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by the Granting Lender. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPC shall be liable for any payment under this Agreement for which a Lender would otherwise be liable, for so long as, and to the extent, the related Granting Lender makes such payment. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding senior indebtedness of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings or similar proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the Company or the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Loans to its Granting Lender in connection with liquidity and/or credit facilities to or for the account of such SPC to fund such Loans and (ii) subject to the provisions of Section 10.12, disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of a surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
Section 10.05. l. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrowers herein and in the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreements and the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default (other than a Default which has been waived in accordance with Section 10.02) or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 10.03 and Article 8 shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Surviva
Section 10.06. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
 
in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto (excluding any Borrowing Subsidiaries), and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto (including any Borrowing Subsidiaries) and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or other electronic imaging shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 10.07. . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
Section 10.08. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final and in whatever currency denominated) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower against any of and all the amounts then due and owing by the Borrower under this Agreement to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
Section 10.09. . (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(b) Each Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against any Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) Each Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each party to this Agreement (including any Borrowing Subsidiaries) irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Each Borrowing Subsidiary irrevocably designates and appoints the Company, as its authorized agent, to accept and acknowledge on its behalf, service of any and all process which may be served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in Section 10.09(b) in any federal or New York State court sitting in
 
New York City. The Company hereby represents, warrants and confirms that the Company has agreed to accept such appointment. Said designation and appointment shall be irrevocable by each such Borrowing Subsidiary until all Loans, all reimbursement obligations, interest thereon and all other amounts payable by such Borrowing Subsidiary hereunder and under its Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement shall have been paid in full in accordance with the provisions hereof and thereof and such Borrowing Subsidiary shall have been terminated as a Borrower hereunder pursuant to Section 2.19. Each Borrowing Subsidiary hereby consents to process being served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in Section 10.09(b) in any federal or New York State court sitting in New York City by service of process upon the Company as provided in this Section 10.09(d); that, to the extent lawful and possible, notice of said service upon such agent shall be mailed by registered or certified air mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Company and (if applicable to) such Borrowing Subsidiary at its address set forth in the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement to which it is a party or to any other address of which such Borrowing Subsidiary shall have given written notice to the Administrative Agent (with a copy thereof to the Company). Each Borrowing Subsidiary irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all claim of error by reason of any such service in such manner and agrees that such service shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon such Borrowing Subsidiary in any such suit, action or proceeding and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be taken and held to be valid and personal service upon and personal delivery to such Borrowing Subsidiary. To the extent any Borrowing Subsidiary has or hereafter may acquire any immunity from jurisdiction of any court or from any legal process (whether from service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution of a judgment, execution or otherwise), each Borrowing Subsidiary hereby irrevocably waives such immunity in respect of its obligations under this Agreement and its Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement or any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
provided
Section 10.10. . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
Waiver of Jury Trial
Section 10.11. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
Section 10.12.. Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, auditors, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder,
Confidentiality
 
(f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section 10.12, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Company and its obligations, (g) on a confidential basis to (i) any rating agency in connection with rating the Company or its Subsidiaries or the credit facilities provided hereunder or (ii) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar agency in connection with the issuance and monitoring of CUSIP numbers or other market identifiers with respect to the credit facilities provided hereunder, (h) with the prior written consent of the Company or (i) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section 10.12 or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Company relating to the Company or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
Section 10.13. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Interest Rate Limitation
Charges
Maximum Rate
Section 10.14. . (a) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum owing hereunder in one currency into another currency, each party hereto (including any Borrowing Subsidiary) agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the first currency could be purchased with such other currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
Conversion of Currencies
(b) The obligations of each Borrower in respect of any sum due to any party hereto or any holder of the obligations owing hereunder (the "Applicable Creditor") shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "Judgment Currency") other than the currency in which such sum is stated to be due hereunder (the "Agreement Currency"), be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Creditor of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable Creditor in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss. The obligations of the Borrowers contained in this Section 10.14 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder.
 
Section 10.15. . (a) . In this Section 10.15 and in each other provision of this Agreement to which reference is made in this Section 10.15 expressly or impliedly, the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 10.15:
European Economic and Monetary Union
Definitions
"" means the single currency of Participating Member States; and
Euro
"" means those members of the European Union from time to time which adopt a single, shared currency.
Participating Member States
(b) . If and to the extent that any provision of paragraphs (c) to (g) relates to any state (or the currency of such state) that is not a Participating Member State on the Effective Date, such provision shall become effective in relation to such state (and the currency of such state) at and from the date on which such state becomes a Participating Member State.
Effectiveness of Provisions
(c) . Any Loan in the currency of a Participating Member State shall be made in Euros.
Loans
(d) . Section 2.06 and Section 2.17 shall be construed so that, in relation to the payment of any amount of Euros, such amount shall be made available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available, freely transferable, cleared funds to such account with such bank in Frankfurt am Main, Germany (or such other principal financial center in such Participating Member State) as the Administrative Agent may from time to time nominate for this purpose.
Payments to the Administrative Agent
(e) . With respect to the payment of any amount denominated in Euros, the Administrative Agent shall not be liable to any Borrower or any of the Lenders in any way whatsoever for any delay, or the consequences of any delay, in the crediting to any account of any amount required by this Agreement to be paid by the Administrative Agent if the Administrative Agent shall have taken all relevant steps to achieve, on the date required by this Agreement, the payment of such amount in immediately available, freely transferable, cleared funds (in Euros) to the account with the bank in the principal financial center in the Participating Member State which such Borrower or, as the case may be, any Lender shall have specified for such purpose. In this paragraph (e), "all relevant steps" means all such steps as may be prescribed from time to time by the regulations or operating procedures of such clearing or settlement system as the Administrative Agent may from time to time determine for the purpose of clearing or settling payments of the Euro.
Payments by the Administrative Agent Generally
(f) . If the basis of accrual of interest or fees expressed in this Agreement with respect to the currency of any state that becomes a Participating Member State shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London Interbank Market or, as the case may be, the Paris Interbank Market for the basis of accrual of interest or fees in respect of the Euro, such convention or practice shall replace such expressed basis effective as of and from the date on which such state becomes a Participating Member State; , that if any Loan in the currency of such state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Loan, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
Basis of Accrual
provided
(g) . Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably specify to be necessary or appropriate to reflect the introduction of a Participating Member State in accordance with customary practices in the market.
Consequential Changes
Section 10.16. . Each Lender hereby notifies the Company that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107 56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)),
USA Patriot Act
 
it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Company, which information includes the name and address of the Company and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Company in accordance with said Act.
Section 10.17. . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement), each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Lenders are arm's-length commercial transactions between such Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Lenders and their Affiliates, on the other hand, (B) such Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) such Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreements; (ii) (A) each of the Lenders and their Affiliates is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for such Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) no Lender or any of its Affiliates has any obligation to such Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except, in the case of a Lender, those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreements; and (iii) each of the Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of such Borrower and its Affiliates, and no Lender or any of its Affiliates has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to such Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, each Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against each of the Lenders and their Affiliates with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 


