FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20040830170250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
     On August 27, 2004, we completed our previously announced $575 million acquisition of privately held Inland Resources. The acquisition established a new Rocky Mountain focus area for us. Inland's major asset is the 110,000-acre Monument Butte Field, located in the Uinta Basin of Northeast Utah. We estimate that Inland owns 326 billion cubic feet equivalent of proved reserves. The reserves are 85% oil and 70% proved undeveloped. The purchase price was funded through recent concurrent offerings of our common stock and our 6 5/8% senior subordinated notes due 2014.
Item 8.01 Other Events
     On August 27, 2004, Newfield Exploration Company issued its @NFX publication, which includes updated tables detailing complete hedging positions as of August 27, 2004. A copy of this publication is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired
     It was impracticable to provide the required financial statements for the Business Acquired by the date this Report was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") as none of the required financial statements were available on such date. The Company will provide such statements under cover of Form 8-K/A as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than 60 days after the date this Report was required to be filed with the Commission.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
     It was impracticable to provide the required pro forma financial information by the date this Report was filed with the Commission as none of the required information was available on such date. The Company will provide such information under cover of Form 8-K/A as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than 60 days after the date this Report was required to be filed with the Commission.
(c) Exhibits
     99.1     @NFX publication issued by Newfield Exploration Company on August 27, 2004.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
@NFX is periodically published to keep shareholders aware of current operating activities at Newfield. It may include estimates of expected production volumes, costs and expenses, recent changes to hedging positions and commodity pricing.
If you have problems viewing this e-mail please go to www.newfld.com
August 27, 2004
We have recently added oil hedges in conjunction with our acquisition of Inland Resources. Please see below for a complete update on all of our hedge positions.
Call me with questions.
Steve Campbell
Natural Gas Hedge Positions
The following hedge positions for the third quarter of 2004 and beyond are as of August 27, 2004:
Third Quarter 2004
 
Natural Gas 3-Way Collars
These 3-way collar contracts are standard natural gas collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The collar contracts have floor and ceiling prices per MMMBtu as per the table above until the market price drops below the floor price above. Below the floor price, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average $1.00 per MMMBtu higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
Crude Oil Hedge Positions
The following hedge positions for the third quarter of 2004 and beyond are as of August 27, 2004:
Third Quarter 2004
 
 
 
 
*These 3-way collar contracts are standard crude oil collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per barrel as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of $26.10 per barrel. Below $26.10 per barrel, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average $6.18 per barrel higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
Any publicly announced changes to the above estimates, as well as periodic drilling updates, will be available through @NFX. Through our web page at www.newfld.com, stockholders may register to receive @NFX by e-mail distribution.


