FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20041105123400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02     Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
         J. Michael Lacey was appointed to the Board of Directors of Newfield and to the Compensation & Management Development and International Advisory Committees of the Board effective November 4, 2004. Mr. Lacey is the former Senior Vice President  Exploration and Production for Devon Energy Corporation. He also served on Devon's Executive Committee. He retired from Devon in February 2004 after serving 15 years in diverse leadership roles.
         Joseph H. Netherland was appointed to the Board of Directors of Newfield and to the Compensation & Management Development and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committees of the Board effective November 4, 2004. Mr. Netherland is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of FMC Technologies, Inc. He was elected President and CEO and a Director of FMC Technologies in February 2001 and Chairman in December 2001. Mr. Netherland joined FMC in 1973 and has served in management positions throughout the organization.
         J. Terry Strange was appointed to the Board of Directors of Newfield and to the Audit and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committees of the Board effective November 4, 2004. Mr. Strange retired from KPMG, LLP after a 34-year career. At the time of his retirement in 2002, he was the Global Managing Partner of Audit Practice and a Member of KPMG's International Executive Committee. Prior to this position, he served from 1996-2002 as Vice Chair of KPMG and Managing Partner of US Audit Practice and was responsible for the firm's internal risk management program.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


