FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20040721130230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
     On July 20, 2004, Newfield issued a press release announcing that it had acquired all of the outstanding stock of Denbury Offshore, Inc., the subsidiary of Denbury Resources, Inc. that holds all of its Gulf of Mexico assets. As a result of the acquisition, Newfield also announced that it was increasing its 2004 production guidance. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today announced that it had acquired all of the outstanding stock of Denbury Offshore, Inc., the subsidiary of Denbury Resources, Inc. that holds all of its Gulf of Mexico assets. After purchase price adjustments, total consideration is expected to be approximately $187 million, inclusive of the purchase of approximately $5 million in working capital. For a map of the properties and additional details on the key assets, go to the Gulf of Mexico section at http://www.newfld.com.
Houston 
(July 20, 2004)  Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE:NFX)
     "The Denbury Gulf of Mexico assets are an excellent fit with our offshore operations and this will lead to substantial operating costs savings," said David A. Trice, Newfield President and CEO. "These cost savings coupled with the hedging of the expected natural gas production from these properties at a weighted average price of $6.26 per Mcf through December 2005 will ensure a quick payout and a superior rate of return on this acquisition. The acquired assets include operatorship and high working interests in several mature, giant fields. We will conduct detailed field studies to identify additional exploitation and exploration opportunities."
     The transaction adds approximately 50 MMcfe/d of net gas production, of which 97 percent is natural gas. The acquisition was financed through cash on hand and the Company's revolving credit facility.
Transaction Highlights:
     As a result of this transaction, Newfield increased its 2004 production guidance to 235  245 Bcfe, an increase of 7  11 percent over 2003 production of 220.6 Bcfe.
     Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy that includes balancing acquisitions with drill bit opportunities. Newfield's areas of operation include the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins and select international ventures.
 
     
**The statements set forth in this release regarding estimated 2004 production volumes and anticipated reductions in operating and general and administrative expenses are forward looking and are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of capital resources, labor conditions and other factors set forth in the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2003. In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.


