FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20051011125620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 
 
Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 10, 2005, Newfield issued a press release providing a production update post Hurricane Rita. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
On October 10, 2005, Newfield issued a press release announcing the signing of an agreement with Exxon-Mobil to jointly explore and develop approximately 52,000 gross acres controlled by Exxon-Mobil in South Texas. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
HOUSTON
- October 10, 2005 -- Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE:NFX)
today provided an update on its expected range of production for 2005 following production deferrals in the Gulf of Mexico related to Hurricane Rita. In addition, Newfield updated production guidance for 2006-07. As a reminder, the Company will be holding a previously scheduled investor day with management on Tuesday, October 11, 2005. A webcast will begin at 8:15 a.m. and can be accessed through the Companys website at http://www.newfld.com.
Year-to-date, four storms have caused production deferrals in the Gulf of Mexico - Dennis, Arlene, Katrina and Rita. Newfield expects that the full-year impact of these storms will result in the deferral of 18-20 Bcfe from the Gulf of Mexico. Since Hurricane Rita, Newfield has restored Gulf production of approximately 60 MMcfe/d net out of total net production of about 320 MMcfe/d. Only about 14 MMcfe/d net is associated with lost platforms or structures. The remainder is related to damage to host platforms, pipeline infrastructure and onshore processing facilities. Newfield estimates that up to 220 MMcfe/d net of the shut-in production could resume within the next month if the condition of pipelines, host facilities and onshore processing plants will permit.
The table below outlines Newfields annual production guidance through 2007. The Companys major development projects outside of the Gulf of Mexico remain on schedule. The increase in 2007 guidance reflects the return of deferred production in the Gulf of Mexico and production from recent discoveries.
The storms of 2005 dealt a severe blow to Gulf of Mexico infrastructure. Our operations personnel have done a great job of repairing damage and they continue to find creative ways to flow oil and gas to shore. Our revised production guidance reflects our best current assessment of the lingering impact of these storms. A reduced and damaged rig fleet will create challenges for all of us as we move forward, said David A. Trice, Chairman, President and CEO.
While these storms have resulted in a short-term production set back, we have key development projects onshore and internationally that remain on-track. These projects should add
significant
production in 2006 and beyond. Our estimated production does not assume acquisitions or significant exploration success.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy that includes balancing acquisitions with drill bit opportunities. Newfields areas of operation include the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent and the Uinta Basin of the Rocky Mountains. The Company has development projects underway offshore Malaysia, in the U.K. North Sea and in Bohai Bay, China.
**The statements set forth in this release regarding estimated production volumes and timing are forward looking and are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors. Newfields ability to produce oil and gas from the Gulf of Mexico is dependent on infrastructure (such as host platforms, pipelines and onshore processing facilities) owned by third parties. Much of this infrastructure was damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. In many cases, Newfield is uncertain of the extent of the damages. As a result, it is difficult to predict when production will be permitted to resume. Other factors that may cause actual production to vary significantly from anticipated production include the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, drilling results, oil and gas prices, the prices of goods and services, delays in the construction of infrastructure, delays in obtaining governmental approvals, the availability of capital resources, labor conditions and other factors set forth in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
HOUSTON
- October 10, 2005 -- Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE:NFX)
today announced the signing of an agreement with Exxon-Mobil to jointly explore and develop approximately 52,000 gross acres controlled by Exxon-Mobil in South Texas. Newfield expects that two-to-three drilling rigs will be active on these properties over the next three years.
The agreement covers properties in Kenedy, Starr and Hidalgo counties, all of which are located in Newfields core South Texas activity regions. Production from these counties has accounted for a significant portion of Newfields onshore growth. Since entering South Texas in 2000, Newfield has grown net production to a current rate of more than 200 MMcfe/d. The growth is a result of acquisitions, exploration success and field developments. In addition to the acreage covered under this venture, Newfield owns interests in more than 200,000 gross lease acres in South Texas.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy that includes balancing acquisitions with drill bit opportunities. Newfields areas of operation include the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent and the Uinta Basin of the Rocky Mountains. The Company has development projects underway offshore Malaysia, in the U.K. North Sea and in Bohai Bay, China.
**The statements set forth in this release regarding future drilling activities are forward looking and are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of capital resources, labor conditions and other factors set forth in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.


