FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20050211112416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On February 8, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Newfield Exploration Company ("Newfield") granted restricted stock awards to the executive officers named below pursuant to the Newfield Exploration Company 2004 Omnibus Stock Plan. The number of restricted shares granted to each of such executive officers is set forth opposite his or her name below. Each of the awards is governed by a restricted stock agreement, the form of which is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 9, 2005, Newfield issued a press release announcing significant exploration discoveries in the North Sea, deepwater Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     Also on February 9, 2005, Newfield issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and full-year 2004 financial and operating results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     On February 9, 2005, Joe B. Foster and Charles W. Duncan, Jr. elected to retire as directors of Newfield effective as of the close of business on May 4, 2005 and to not stand for reelection to the Board at Newfield's 2005 annual meeting of stockholders. Also on February 9, 2005, as a result of the corporate policies of her new employer, Claire S. Farley tendered her resignation as a director of Newfield effective as of the close of business on May 4, 2005 and elected to not stand for reelection to the Board at Newfield's 2005 annual meeting of stockholders. In connection with the retirements of Messrs. Foster and Duncan and the resignation of Ms. Farley, the number of directors constituting Newfield's Board was decreased from fourteen to eleven effective as of the close of business on May 4, 2005.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
     (this "") is made as of _________  ___, 2005 and is by and between Newfield Exploration Company (the "") and ______________ ("").
THIS 2005 TSR RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT
Agreement
Company
Employee
     .
1. 
GRANT
     (a) . Pursuant to the Newfield Exploration Company 2004 Omnibus Stock Plan (as amended, the ""), ___shares of the Company's common stock, par value $.01, will be issued in Employee's name subject to the Forfeiture Restrictions described in Section 2(a) below (the "").
Restricted Shares
Plan
Restricted Shares
     (b) . Employee acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan and agrees that the issuance of the Restricted Shares pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to all of the terms and provisions of the Plan (including any future amendments thereof), which terms and provisions are incorporated herein for all purposes. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
Plan Incorporated
     2. . Employee hereby accepts the Restricted Shares when issued and agrees with respect thereto as follows:
RESTRICTIONS
     (a) . Except as otherwise provided in Paragraphs V and IX of the Plan, (i) the Restricted Shares shall not be sold, assigned, pledged, exchanged, hypothecated or otherwise transferred or disposed of to the extent then subject to Forfeiture Restrictions, (ii) if, prior to February 1, 2010, Employee's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries is terminated for any reason (including as described in the last sentence of Paragraph XI(b) of the Plan) other than the death or permanent and total disability (within the meaning of section 22(e)(3) of the Code) ("") of Employee, Employee shall, for no consideration, forfeit to the Company all Restricted Shares to the extent then subject to Forfeiture Restrictions and (iii) Employee shall, for no consideration, forfeit to the Company all Restricted Shares to the extent subject to Forfeiture Restrictions as of February 1, 2010. The prohibition against transfer and the obligation to forfeit and surrender shares to the Company as provided in this Section 2(a) are herein referred to as "." Forfeiture Restrictions shall be binding upon and enforceable against any transferee of Restricted Shares.
Forfeiture Restrictions
Disability
Forfeiture Restrictions
     (b) . If not previously forfeited, Forfeiture Restrictions with respect to the Restricted Securities shall lapse upon the death or Disability of Employee.
Lapse of Forfeiture RestrictionsDeath or Disability
     (c) . If not previously forfeited, Forfeiture Restrictions with respect to the Restricted Securities shall lapse in accordance with the following schedule:
Lapse of Forfeiture RestrictionsStockholder Return
 
     (i) Forfeiture Restrictions shall lapse as of the February 1 immediately following the last day of the applicable Measurement Period set forth in the schedule above with respect to that percentage of the Restricted Shares that continue to be subject to Forfeiture Restrictions corresponding to the highest TSR Rank (with Top 7 being the highest, Top 10 being the second highest, etc.) achieved for such Measurement Period as determined by the Committee.
     (ii) "" means the following companies: Apache Corporation, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, Burlington Resources Inc., Chesapeake Energy Corporation, Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, Denbury Resources Inc., Devon Energy Corporation, Encana Corporation, EOG Resources, Inc., Forest Oil Corporation, Kerr-McGee Corporation, Murphy Oil Corporation, Nexen Inc., Noble Energy, Inc., Pioneer Natural Resources, Pogo Producing Company, Southwestern Energy Company, Spinnaker Exploration Company, St. Mary Land & Exploration Company, Stone Energy Corporation, Swift Energy Company, The Houston Exploration Company, Talisman Energy Inc., Ultra Petroleum Corp., Vintage Petroleum, Inc., Western Gas Resources, Inc. and XTO Energy Inc.
Initial Peer Group
     (iii) "" means (A) the Dow Jones Industrial Average Index, (B) the S&P 500 Index and (C) each company included in the Initial Peer Group that has had its primary common equity security listed or traded on a national securities exchange or the Nasdaq National Market (or any successor thereto) throughout the relevant Measurement Period.
Qualified Peer Group
     (iv) "" means the Company's rank from one to one plus the total number of companies and indices comprising the Qualified Peer Group for the relevant Measurement Period with the Company, each such other company and each such index together ranked from best to worst based on the Total Stockholder Return of the Company, each such other company and each such index for such Measurement Period.
TSR Rank
 
     (v) "" for a particular Measurement Period means the rate of return (expressed as a percentage) achieved with respect to the common stock of the Company, the common stock of each company in the Qualified Peer Group and each index included in the Qualified Peer Group for such Measurement Period if (A) $100 were invested in the common stock of each such company or such index at the beginning of such Measurement Period based on the closing price of such common stock or such index on January 31, 2005, (B) all dividends declared with respect to a particular common stock during such Measurement Period are reinvested in such common stock as of the payment date for such dividends (using the closing price of such common stock on such payment date) and (C) the valuation of such common stock or such index at the end of such Measurement Period is based on the average closing price for the last ten trading days occurring on or before the last January 31 of such Measurement Period.
Total Stockholder Return
     . A certificate evidencing the Restricted Shares will be issued by the Company in Employee's name, pursuant to which Employee shall have voting rights and receive dividends. The certificate may bear a legend reciting or incorporating Forfeiture Restrictions and any other legends the Company believes are appropriate, and the Company may cause the certificate to be delivered upon issuance to the Secretary of the Company (or such other person as may be designated by the Committee) as a depositary for safekeeping until Forfeiture Restrictions lapse or forfeiture occurs pursuant to the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. At the Company's request, Employee shall execute and deliver a stock power, in blank, with respect to the Restricted Shares, and the Company may exercise such stock power in the event of forfeiture. Upon the lapse of Forfeiture Restrictions without forfeiture, the Company will cause a new certificate or certificates to be issued without legend in the name of Employee.
(d) Certificates
     . The community interest, if any, of any spouse of Employee in any of the Restricted Shares shall be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions of this Agreement and the Plan, and shall be forfeited and surrendered to the Company upon the occurrence of any of the events requiring Employee's interest in such Restricted Shares to be so forfeited and surrendered pursuant to this Agreement.
3. 
COMMUNITY INTEREST OF SPOUSE
     . If Employee makes the election authorized by section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, Employee shall submit to the Company a copy of the statement filed by Employee to make such election.
4. 
TAX ELECTION
     . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors to the Company and all persons lawfully claiming under Employee.
5. 
BINDING EFFECT
 
     , the Company has caused this Agreement to be duly executed by an authorized officer and Employee has executed this Agreement, all as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today announced several significant exploration successes in the North Sea, deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Onshore Gulf Coast. These discoveries will add significant production volumes for the Company beginning in 2006.
Houston  (February 9, 2005) 
Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE:NFX)
Newfield announced its first discovery in the North Sea with success on its Company-operated , located on license area 49/10a in the Southern Gas Basin. The Grove well was drilled to a total depth of 11,400'and found about 120' of net gas pay in the Leman and Barren Red Measures Sands. The well was drilled to appraise an undeveloped discovery drilled in 1971. The well tested 25 MMcf/d and 330 barrels of condensate per day. The flow rate was limited by the capacity of the testing equipment.
U.K. North Sea
Grove Prospect
Newfield plans to fabricate a production facility with first production expected in late 2006. The Company has a 100% interest in the Grove development and estimates that reserves are 75-100 Bcfe.
License area 49/10a is part of a six block area called Cleaver Bank North, which covers approximately 100,000 acres. In addition to Grove, 3-5 additional prospects exist in this area and are being evaluated for future drilling.
Newfield announced its first operated deepwater Gulf of Mexico discovery with its , located at Mississippi Canyon 506 in about 3,700' of water. The #1 well found 90' gross of high-quality, dry gas pay. The wellbore was sidetracked approximately 250' updip and found 44' gross of similar-quality gas pay. Newfield plans to sub-sea tieback the well to existing infrastructure in the area and expects first production in mid-2006. Newfield owns a 50% interest in the Wrigley development and estimates that reserves are 55-85 Bcfe. Two additional prospects, supported by similar seismic amplitudes, exist on the block and could be tested later this year.
Deepwater Gulf of Mexico
Wrigley Prospect
Newfield also announced a deepwater discovery with the , located at Mississippi Canyon 755 in about 2,400' of water. The well found about 48' of gross oil pay. The partners are currently preparing to drill an updip sidetrack location. Information from the sidetrack will be used to determine Anduin's reserve size and development options. Two additional locations exist on Mississippi Canyon 755 and adjacent 754. Newfield owns a 50% non-operated interest in Anduin.
Anduin Prospect
 
In late 2004, Newfield drilled a successful gas well at its , located at Mississippi Canyon 427 in about 5,800' of water. The #1 well found about 90' of gross hydrocarbon pay. Newfield believes that a second well is needed to determine field size and commerciality. A second well is planned for mid-2005. Newfield is the operator of La Femme with a 50% working interest.
La Femme Prospect
Newfield also made three potentially significant discoveries . Due to competitive leasing activity in the area, the Company did not disclose details on the location of these discoveries. Two of the wells tested at 8 MMcf/d and the third has been producing at 1.5 MMcf/d since late 2004. Additional delineation drilling is planned and pipeline and facility designs are underway. Newfield has a 100% working interest in all three wells. When fully developed, the three discoveries have the potential to add gross reserves of 60-100 Bcfe.
Onshore Texas
onshore Texas
     Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy that includes balancing acquisitions with drill bit opportunities. Newfield's areas of operation include the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Uinta Basin of the Rocky Mountains and select international ventures.
     
**The statements set forth in this release regarding timing of first production and development plans and reserve estimates are forward looking and are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of capital resources, labor conditions and other factors set forth in the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2003. In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.
      

 
Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today announced financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2004. A conference call to discuss the results is planned for 8:30 a.m. (CST), Thursday, February 10. To participate in the call, dial 719-457-2680. A listen-only broadcast will also be provided over the Internet. Simply go to the Investor Relations section at .
Houston 
(February 9, 2005)  Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE:NFX)
http://www.newfld.com
Highlights include:
Fourth Quarter 2004 Financial Results
     For the fourth quarter of 2004, Newfield reported net income of $90 million, or $1.43 per share (all per share amounts are on a diluted basis). Earnings in the quarter were negatively affected by the two items listed below. Without the effect of these items, earnings in the quarter would have been $123 million, or $1.96 per share.
 
     Revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004 were $437 million. Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $304 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. See .
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     Net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2003 was $40 million, or $0.71 per share. Revenues in the fourth quarter of 2003 were $245 million. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $195 million in the fourth quarter of 2003.
     Newfield's production in the fourth quarter of 2004 was 69.5 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe), a 26% increase over production of 55.1 Bcfe in the fourth quarter of 2003. The following tables detail production and average realized prices for the fourth quarter of 2004 and 2003.
Quarterly Production
For the Three Months Ended December 31
Average Realized Prices
(2)
For the Three Months Ended December 31
Represents volumes sold regardless of when produced.
(1)
Prices shown are net of all applicable transportation expense. Domestic average realized prices also include the effects of hedging other than our three-way collar contracts, which do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. Had we included the realized loss on our three-way collar contracts, our average realized price for total natural gas would have been $6.09 per Mcf and our average realized price for total oil and condensate would have been $38.44 per Bbl for the fourth quarter of 2004. No three-way contracts were settled in the fourth quarter of 2003.
(2)
 
     Stated on a unit of production basis, Newfield's lease operating expense (LOE) in the fourth quarter of 2004 was $0.68 per Mcfe compared to LOE from continuing operations of $0.61 per Mcfe in the same period of 2003. Production and other taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004 increased to $0.17 per Mcfe compared to production and other taxes from continuing operations of $0.12 per Mcfe in the same period of 2003. DD&A expense in the fourth quarter of 2004 was $2.04 per Mcfe compared to DD&A expense from continuing operations of $1.84 per Mcfe in the same period of 2003. G&A expense in the fourth quarter of 2004 was $0.35 per Mcfe compared to G&A expense from continuing operations of $0.28 per Mcfe in the same period of 2003. G&A expense in the fourth quarter of 2004 is net of capitalized direct internal costs of $9 million. Capitalized direct internal costs were $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2003.
     Capital expenditures in the fourth quarter of 2004 were $238 million.
Full-Year 2004 Financial Results
     For 2004, Newfield posted net income of $312 million, or $5.26 per share. Revenues for 2004 were $1.35 billion. This compares to net income from continuing operations of $211 million, or $3.77 per share, on revenues of $1.02 billion. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $965 million in 2004 compared to $734 million in the same period of 2003. See .
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     Production volumes for 2004 increased 10% over the same period last year. The Company produced 243.6 Bcfe in 2004 compared to production from continuing operations of 220.6 Bcfe in the prior year. The following tables detail production and average realized prices for 2004 and 2003:
Full-Year Production
For the Year Ended December 31
Represents volumes sold regardless of when produced.
(1)
Prices shown are net of all applicable transportation expense. Domestic average realized prices include the effects of hedging other than our three-way collar contracts, which do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. Had we included the realized loss on our three-way contracts our average realized price for total natural gas would have been $5.33 per Mcf and our average realized price for total oil and condensate would have been $35.05 per Bbl for 2004. No three-way contracts were settled in 2003.
(2)
 
     In 2004, LOE, stated on a unit of production basis, averaged $0.60 per Mcfe compared to LOE from continuing operations of $0.54 per Mcfe in 2003. Production and other taxes in 2004 were $0.17 per Mcfe compared to production and other taxes from continuing operations of $0.14 per Mcfe in 2003. DD&A expense in 2004 was $1.94 per Mcfe compared to DD&A expense from continuing operations of $1.79 per Mcfe in 2003. G&A expense in 2004 was $0.34 per Mcfe compared to G&A expense from continuing operations of $0.28 per Mcfe in the prior year. G&A expense in 2004 is net of capitalized direct internal costs of $32 million. Capitalized direct internal costs were $27 million in 2003.
Proved Reserves and Capital Activity
     Newfield's total reserves at year-end 2004 were 1.78 Tcfe, an increase of 35% over year-end 2003 reserves. Reserve additions from all sources were 725 Bcfe and included 458 Bcfe from acquisitions and 267 Bcfe from discoveries, extensions and other revisions/additions. Sales of reserves in 2004 totaled 14 Bcfe.
     Total oil and gas capital costs in 2004 were $1.85 billion, which includes a non-cash $144 million step-up in the booked fair value of the assets acquired in the Inland transaction and $49 million associated with asset retirement cost.
Oil and Gas Reserves*
* As a requirement of our revolving credit facility, independent reserve engineers prepare separate reserve reports with respect to properties holding at least 80% of our proved reserves. For December 31, 2004, the independent reserve engineers' reports covered properties representing 86% of our proved reserves and for such properties, the reserves were within 1% of the reserves we reported for such properties.
 
Capital Expenditures
Includes $37 million of unproved leasehold and $7million of proved leasehold expenditures.
(1)
Includes $37 million of seismic expenditures.
(2)
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities is presented because of its acceptance as an indicator of an oil and gas exploration and production company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur additional debt. This measure should not be considered as an alternative to net cash provided by operating activities as defined by generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities to net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations is shown below:
 
First Quarter 2005 Estimates
     The Company's natural gas production in the first quarter of 2005 is expected to be 49  54 Bcf (538  593 MMcf/d). The price the Company realizes for natural gas production from the Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast, after basis differentials, transportation and handling charges, typically averages $0.15  $0.20 less per MMBtu than the Henry Hub Index. Realized gas prices for our Mid-Continent properties, after basis differentials, transportation and handing charges, typically average $0.70  $0.80 less per MMBtu than the Henry Hub Index. Hedging gains or losses will affect price realizations.
Natural Gas Production and Pricing
     The Company's oil production, including international liftings, in the first quarter of 2005 is expected to be 2.1  2.3 million barrels (23,000  25,000 BOPD). Newfield expects to produce approximately 4,200 BOPD from its Malaysian operations. The timing of liftings in Malaysia may affect our total reported production. The price the Company receives for Gulf Coast production typically averages about $2 per barrel below the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate (WTI) price. The price the Company receives for its production in the Rocky Mountains averages about $3 per barrel below WTI price. Oil production from the Mid-Continent typically sells at a $1.00  $1.50 per barrel discount to WTI. Oil production from Malaysia typically sells at Tapis, or about even with WTI. Hedging gains or losses will affect price realizations.
Crude Oil Production and Pricing
     LOE is expected to be $43  $48 million ($0.68  $0.75 per Mcfe) in the first quarter of 2005. Production taxes in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be $12  $13 million ($0.19  $0.21 per Mcfe). These expenses vary and are subject to impact from, among other things, production volumes and commodity pricing, tax rates, service costs, the costs of goods and materials and workover activities.
Lease Operating and Other Expenses
     G&A expense for the first quarter of 2005 is expected to be $23  $25 million ($0.36  $0.40 per Mcfe), net of capitalized direct internal costs. Capitalized direct internal costs are expected to be $9  $11 million. G&A expense includes stock and incentive compensation expense. Incentive compensation expense depends largely on net income.
General and Administrative Expense
     The non-capitalized portion of the Company's interest expense for the first quarter of 2005 is expected to be $7  $8 million ($0.10  $0.11 per Mcfe). As of February 9, 2005, borrowings under the Company's credit arrangements were $78 million. The remainder of long-term debt consists of four separate issuances of notes that in the aggregate total $875 million in principal amount. Capitalized interest for the first quarter of 2005 is expected to be about $11  $12 million.
Interest Expense
     Including both current and deferred taxes, the Company expects its consolidated income tax rate in the first quarter of 2005 to be about 35  39%. About 70% of the tax provision is expected to be deferred.
Income Taxes
     The Company provides information regarding its outstanding hedging positions in its annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and in its electronic publication  @NFX. This publication can be found on Newfield's web page at . Through the web page, you may elect to receive @NFX through e-mail distribution.
http://www.newfld.com
 
     Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy that includes balancing acquisitions with drill bit opportunities. Newfield's areas of operation include the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Uinta Basin of the Rocky Mountains and select international ventures.
     
**The statements set forth in this release regarding estimated or anticipated full-year 2005 production volumes and capital expenditures and first quarter 2005 results are forward looking and are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of capital resources, labor conditions and other factors set forth in the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2003. In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.
      
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (Unaudited, in millions, except per share data)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (Unaudited, in millions)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited, in millions)


