FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20050928171934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01
 
Other Events
On September 27, 2005, Newfield issued a press release announcing the preliminary impact of Hurricane Rita. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
HOUSTON
- September 27, 2005 -- Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE:NFX)
today announced initial findings of an aerial survey of its operations in the Gulf of Mexico. Three production platforms were lost in Hurricane Rita - South Marsh Island 49 B, East Cameron 151 C and East Cameron 286 B. Combined net production from the three facilities was 5.6 MMcfe/d. All other Newfield operated structures flown over appear to be intact. Over the next several days, boats and helicopters will better assess damages and begin the repair process.
In preparation for Hurricane Rita, Newfield began shutting in production on September 20, and since that time approximately 2.0 Bcfe has been deferred. Approximately 320 MMcfe/d net remains shut-in today. Operations are now being resumed from fields unaffected by the storm if pipelines will permit the resumption of production. Newfield will provide more detailed information upon the completion of ongoing assessments.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy that includes balancing acquisitions with drill bit opportunities. Newfields areas of operation include the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent and the Uinta Basin of the Rocky Mountains. The Company has development projects underway offshore Malaysia, in the U.K. North Sea and in Bohai Bay, China.


