FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20070810161049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01  Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On August 6, 2007, Newfield Exploration Company issued a press release announcing the closing on its previously announced sale of its Gulf of Mexico shelf assets to McMoRan Exploration Co. (NYSE: MMR) for total cash consideration of $1.1 billion and the assumption by the buyer of liabilities associated with future abandonment of wells and platforms. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are presented to give effect to the disposition on August 6, 2007 of substantially all of our properties in the Gulf of Mexico for $1.1 billion in cash and the assumption by the buyer of liabilities associated with future abandonment of wells and platforms (the Disposition). We retained most of our deepwater properties and partial interests in some primary term acreage on the shelf.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2006 has been derived from our consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2006. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated income statement should be read together with our consolidated income statement and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2007 and the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated income statement for the six months ended June 30, 2007 have been derived from our interim consolidated financial statements included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2007 and should be read in conjunction with those financial statements, including the notes thereto.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are based on the following assumptions and adjustments:
Pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission rules for pro forma financial statements, no pro forma adjustments were made with respect to the following:
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are presented for illustrative purposes only. The financial results may have been different if the Disposition had occurred as of the dates indicated above. This financial information does not purport to indicate the future results that we will experience.
 
 
 
 
 
Pro Forma Assumptions:
 
Estimated Net Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
The following pro forma estimated reserve quantities show the effect of the Disposition as if it had occurred on December 31, 2006.
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
The following pro forma standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows shows the effect of the Disposition as if it had occurred on December 31, 2006.

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Houston - August 6, 2007 --
Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE:NFX)
today announced the closing on its previously announced sale of its Gulf of Mexico shelf assets to McMoRan Exploration Co. (NYSE:MMR) for total cash consideration of $1.1 billion and the assumption of liabilities associated with future abandonment of wells and platforms.
Newfield utilized Internal Revenue Code Section 1031 Tax Deferred Exchange rules for the sale of its Gulf of Mexico shelf assets and its recent $578 million acquisition of Rocky Mountain assets from Stone Energy. As a result, after-tax proceeds from the sale of the Gulf of Mexico shelf assets exceed $1.0 billion.
Newfields estimated 2007 and 2008 production guidance
(issued July 25)
accounted for this and other anticipated divestitures and remains 240 - 253 Bcfe.
The Companys previously announced divestiture packages also include its assets in the U.K. North Sea and Bohai Bay, China, and other select properties in Texas and the Mid-Continent. Proceeds from these sales will be used to pay down debt and fund capital expenditures.
Jefferies Randall & Dewey and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated acted as financial advisors to Newfield in connection with its Gulf of Mexico shelf asset sale.
 
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through the drilling of a balanced risk/reward portfolio and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia, the U.K. North Sea and China.
 
**The statements set forth in this release regarding proposed divestitures are forward looking and are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties. Completion of the proposed divestitures is subject to Newfield receiving offers that it considers acceptable for the properties.
For information, contact:
Investor Relations: Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
Media Relations: Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email:
info@newfield.com


