FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20080902092528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
On September 2, 2008, Newfield Exploration Company (Newfield) issued a press release announcing drilling results from recent wells in its Williston Basin program and disclosing its acreage position in the Williston Basin.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
  
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today announced drilling results from recent wells in its Williston Basin program. Over the last three years, Newfield has added significant acreage in the Williston Basin and now has an interest in approximately 170,000 net acres.
Houston  September 2, 2008 
Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE:NFX)
Lost Bear Prospect
Newfields Lost Bear Prospect area, located along the Nesson Anticline in McKenzie and Dunn Counties, North Dakota, covers 13,600 gross acres (7,740 acres net to NFX). The area is prospective for the Bakken and Sanish/Three Forks formations. Newfield expects to drill 4-6 wells in the Lost Bear area in 2008. Newfields average working interest in the area is approximately 57%. Recent results include:
Newfield has identified more than 10 drilling locations in the Lost Bear Prospect area and will be actively drilling these locations through the end of 2009. Success with this initial drilling effort would set up additional development/infill locations.
Westberg Prospect
Newfields Westberg Prospect area is located along the Nesson Anticline in Williams County, North Dakota. The Westberg area covers 18,000 gross acres (approximately 8,050 acres net to NFX) and is prospective for the Bakken and Sanish/Three Forks formations. Newfield and partner Concho Resources each hold a 50% interest in the Westberg area. Based on initial encouraging results, Newfield expects to drill 5-7 wells in the Westberg Prospect area in 2008. Recent results include:
Newfield has identified more than 20 drilling locations in the Westberg Prospect area and has a two-rig drilling program planned throughout 2009. Success with this initial drilling effort would set up additional development/infill locations.
Newfields 170,000 net acre position in the Williston Basin includes 16,000 net acres along the Nesson Anticline, nearly 100,000 acres west of the Nesson and 54,000 net acres in the Elm Coulee Field of Richland County, Montana. Newfield expects to operate at least 2 rigs in the Williston Basin throughout 2009.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
**This release contains forward-looking information. All information other than historical facts included in this release, such as information regarding drilling and development plans, the timing of activities and the timing and rates of production from wells, fields and regions, is forward-looking information.  Although Newfield believes that these expectations are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of capital resources, labor conditions and severe weather conditions. In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.
For information, contact:
Investor Relations: Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
Media Relations: Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email:
info@newfield.com


