FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20090825124519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 24, 2009, Newfield Exploration Company issued a press release announcing that it has begun voluntarily curtailing a portion of its third quarter 2009 natural gas production in response to recent low natural gas prices and providing new production guidance ranges and expected costs and expenses for the third quarter of 2009.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
On August 25, 2009, Newfield issued its @NFX publication, which includes the updated third quarter 2009 guidance and tables detailing complete hedging positions as of August 24, 2009.  A copy of the publication is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
  
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today announced that the Company plans to voluntarily curtail about 2.5 Bcfe of its third quarter 2009 production in response to recent low natural gas prices. The curtailments will come primarily from the Companys Mid-Continent division.
HOUSTON
- August 24, 2009 - Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX)
Although approximately 75% of our expected third quarter 2009 natural gas production is hedged at nearly $8 per Mcf, we are electing to curtail a portion of our production today, said Lee K. Boothby, Newfield President and CEO. We still expect that our full-year 2009 production will be in the upper half of our previous guidance range of 250-260 Bcfe. Newfield has an inventory of approximately 30 uncompleted wells in the Woodford Shale. The timing of well completions is dependent on natural gas prices.
The accompanying table updates Newfields new production guidance ranges and expected costs and expenses for the third quarter of 2009.
 
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
 
 
**This release contains forward-looking information. All information other than historical facts included in this release, such as information regarding estimated or anticipated production, costs and drilling and development plans and the timing of activities, is forward-looking information. Although Newfield believes that these expectations are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of refining capacity for the crude oil Newfield produces from its Monument Butte field in Utah, the availability and cost of capital resources, labor conditions and severe weather conditions. In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.
 
 
For information, contact:
 
Investor Relations: Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
Media Relations: Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email: info@newfield.com
 
 
 
 
Revised 3Q09 Estimates

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
@NFX is periodically published to keep shareholders aware of current operating activities at Newfield.  It may include estimates of expected production volumes, costs and expenses, recent changes to hedging positions and commodity pricing.
August 25, 2009
Newfield recently announced its decision to curtail approximately 2.5 Bcfe of its expected third quarter 2009 natural gas production in response to low gas prices. The guidance table in this publication has been updated to reflect the planned curtailments.
REVISED THIRD QUARTER 2009 ESTIMATES
 
1
 
NATURAL GAS HEDGE POSITIONS
Please see the tables below for our complete hedging positions. Items highlighted reflect new and/or changed data since our last publication on August 12, 2009.
The following hedge positions for the third quarter of 2009 and beyond are as of August 24, 2009:
Third Quarter 2009
Fourth Quarter 2009
First Quarter 2010
Second Quarter 2010
Third Quarter 2010
Fourth Quarter 2010
 
2
 
First Quarter 2011
Second Quarter 2011
Third Quarter 2011
Fourth Quarter 2011
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX gas prices, net of premiums paid for these contracts (in millions).
In the Rocky Mountains, we hedged basis associated with 48% of the proved producing fields from September 2009 through full-year 2012. This is in addition to the 8,000 mmbtu/d sold on a fixed physical basis for the same term for a total basis hedged for the period of 73% at an average of $(0.94) per Mmbtu.
In the Mid-Continent, we hedged basis associated with 25% of our anticipated Stiles/Britt priced production from September 2009 through August 2011. This is in addition to the 30,000 mmbtu/d sold on a fixed physical basis for the same term for a total basis hedged for the period of 62% at an average of $(0.52) per Mmbtu.
 
3
 
Approximately 11% of our natural gas production correlates to Houston Ship Channel, 19% to Columbia Gulf, 14% to Texas Gas Zone 1, 9% to Southern Natural Gas, 7% to Transco Zone 0, 6% to CenterPoint/East, 16% to Panhandle Eastern Pipeline, 6% to Waha, 8% to Colorado Interstate, 4% to others.
CRUDE OIL HEDGE POSITIONS
The following hedge positions for the third quarter of 2009 and beyond are as of August 24, 2009:
 
Third Quarter 2009
Fourth Quarter 2009
First Quarter 2010
Second Quarter 2010
Third Quarter 2010
Fourth Quarter 2010
*
These 3-way collar contracts are standard crude oil collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per Bbls as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of $50 per Bbls. Below $50 per Bbls, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average $10 per Bbls higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
 
4
 
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX oil prices, net of premiums paid for these contracts (in millions).
 
We provide information regarding our outstanding hedging positions in our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and in our electronic publication -- @NFX.  This publication can be found on Newfields web page at . Through the web page, you may elect to receive @NFX through e-mail distribution.
http://www.newfield.com
 
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through the drilling of a balanced risk/reward portfolio and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
**This publication contains forward-looking information. All information other than historical facts included in this publication, such as information regarding estimated or anticipated production, costs and drilling and development plans and the timing of activities, is forward-looking information. Although Newfield believes that these expectations are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of refining capacity for the crude oil Newfield produces from its Monument Butte field in Utah, the availability and cost of capital resources, labor conditions and severe weather conditions. In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.
 
 
5
 
 


