FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20090511164835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
As previously disclosed, David A. Trice retired as our Chief Executive Officer on May 7, 2009, the date of the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders of Newfield Exploration Company (Newfield).  Mr. Trice was re-elected as a director and will serve a one-year term as non-executive Chairman of the Board.
Corporate Succession Actions.  
As previously disclosed, on February 5, 2009, Newfields Board of Directors elected Lee K. Boothby as President.  On May 7, 2009, the Board elected Mr. Boothby to the additional role of Chief Executive Officer.  On May 7, 2009, Mr. Boothby also was elected by Newfields stockholders as a member of Newfields Board of Directors.
Mr. Boothby, age 47, joined Newfield nearly 10 years ago and, prior to his appointment as President on February 5, 2009, most recently served as Senior Vice PresidentAcquisitions and Business Development since October 2007.  Prior to that role, he managed Newfields Mid-Continent operations as President of Newfields Mid-Continent division from February 2002 to October 2007.  He was promoted from General Manager to Vice President of Newfield in November 2004.
On May 7, 2009, Newfields Board of Directors also promoted Gary D. Packer to Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Packer, age 46, joined Newfield in 1995.  Prior to this promotion, Mr. Packer managed Newfields Rocky Mountains operations as President of Newfields Rocky Mountain division.  He served in this position since Newfield acquired Inland Resources and entered the Rocky Mountains in 2004.  He was promoted from General Manager to Newfields Vice President  Rocky Mountains in November 2004.
On May 7, 2009, Newfields Board of Directors also promoted Terry W. Rathert to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Rathert, age 56, joined Newfield in 1989.  Prior to his promotion, Mr. Rathert served as Newfields Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November 1994 and also served as Secretary of Newfield until May 2008.
All Newfield executive officers serve at the discretion of Newfields Board of Directors.  Messrs. Boothby, Packer and Rathert are considered named executive officers of Newfield, and a description of related party transactions can be found under the heading Interests of Management and Others in Certain Transactions in Newfields Proxy Statement related to its 2009 annual meeting of stockholders.  The disclosure contained under the heading Interests of Management and Others in Certain Transactions in Newfields Proxy Statement related to its 2009 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with these promotions, the Compensation & Management Development Committee of Newfields Board of Directors increased the base salaries for Messrs. Boothby, Packer and Rathert as set forth in the table below:
The Compensation & Management Development Committee also granted each of Messrs. Boothby and Packer the number of time-vesting restricted stock units set forth opposite his name in the table below.  The restricted stock units, which were granted pursuant to Newfields 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan described below, vest in three equal annual installments beginning on May 7, 2012, which is the third anniversary of the grant date.  All of the restricted stock units will vest upon death or disability (as defined in the award agreement) or change of control (as defined in the 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan).  A pro rata portion of the restricted stock units will vest if the executive officers employment is terminated by reason of his qualified retirement (as defined in the award agreement).  Each of these awards is governed by a restricted stock unit agreement, which contains a non-competition and non-solicitation agreement.  The form of restricted stock unit award agreement (including the non-competition and non-solicitation agreement) is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.24 and is incorporated herein by reference. 
Please see Item 8.01 below for additional information regarding the election of new officers by Newfields Board of Directors on May 7, 2009.  A copy of the press release describing the promotions of Messrs. Boothby, Packer and Rathert, the election of new officers and Mr. Trices retirement is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
  On May 7, 2009, at Newfields 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, Newfields stockholders approved the Newfield Exploration Company 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan (the 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan).  The 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan was approved by Newfields Board of Directors on February 5, 2009, subject to approval by Newfields stockholders.  Pursuant to the Boards February 5, 2009 approval, when the 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan was approved by Newfields stockholders on May 7, 2009, Newfields 2000 omnibus stock plan, 2004 omnibus stock plan and 2007 omnibus stock plan (which were used for equity grants to employees) were terminated such that no new grants will be made under those previous plans.  Outstanding awards under those previous plans were not impacted by the termination of those previous plans.  The 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.25 and is incorporated herein by reference. 
Stock Plans.
The 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan is administered by the Compensation & Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors.  Under the 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan, the committee may award nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to employees of Newfield and its subsidiaries (other than Mr. Trice, who retired as Newfields Chief Executive Officer on May 7, 2009).  No more than 2,550,000 shares of Newfields common stock may be issued under the plan.  Under the terms of the plan, the maximum number of shares of common stock that may be subject to option awards granted to any one employee during any calendar year is 250,000.  In addition, the aggregate grant date fair market value of shares of the common stock that may be subject to or reflected by restricted stock awards or restricted stock unit awards granted to any one employee during any calendar year is $10,000,000.  The number of shares available under the plan, the limits on the number of shares that may be subject to awards granted to any one employee during any calendar year and the number of shares subject to, and the exercise price of, outstanding stock options are subject to adjustment upon a change in Newfields common stock as a result of a stock dividend or split, recapitalization, reorganization, reclassification or other similar change.
 
The 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan contains numerous features that reflect Newfields commitment to effective corporate governance and Newfields intention to maximize the incentive effect of awards granted under the plan.  These features include:
With respect to the minimum vesting periods, the plan permits a limited exception for no more than 5% of the number of shares of Newfields common stock subject to the plan, or in the case of death, disability, retirement or change of control.
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
On May 7, 2009, Newfields Board of Directors promoted Daryll T. Howard, age 46, to the position of Vice PresidentRocky Mountains, succeeding Gary D. Packer, who was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Howard joined Newfield in 1996.  Prior to his promotion on May 7, 2009, Mr. Howard served as East Team Rocky Mountain Asset Manager since June 2008.  Prior thereto, Mr. Howard assisted in establishing Newfields Malaysia office and was instrumental in the success and growth of Newfields international operations.  Mr. Howard also previously held several positions of increasing breadth and responsibility in Newfields Gulf of Mexico organization.
Additional Corporate Succession Actions.  
In addition, on May 7, 2009, Newfields Board of Directors promoted Samuel E. Langford, age 51, to the position of Vice PresidentCorporate Development.  Mr. Langford joined Newfield in 2004.  Prior to his promotion on May 7, 2009, Mr. Langford served as ManagerAcquisitions, Planning and Commercial Development of Newfields Mid-Continent division since April 2004.
  At Newfields May 7, 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, the stockholders elected all 13 nominees for director, approved the 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan and the 2009 Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan, and ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP by the following votes:
Annual Meeting Vote Results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.24
 
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
 
 
 
The Compensation & Management Development Committee (the ) of the Board of Directors of Newfield Exploration Company, a Delaware corporation (the ), pursuant to the Newfield Exploration Company 2009 Omnibus Stock Plan (the ), hereby awards to you, the above-named awardee, effective as of the Date of Award set forth above (the ), that number of restricted stock units set forth above (the ), on the following terms and conditions:
Committee
Company
Plan
Date of Award
Restricted Stock Units
 
The Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the prohibitions and restrictions set forth herein with respect to the sale or other disposition of such Restricted Stock Units and the obligation to forfeit and surrender such Restricted Stock Units to the Company (the ).  The Forfeiture Restrictions shall lapse as to the Restricted Stock Units that are awarded hereby in accordance with the following schedule provided that your employment with the Company and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries has not terminated prior to the applicable lapse date:
Forfeiture Restrictions
 
 
 
If a Change of Control of the Company occurs, you die, become Disabled or your employment terminates by reason of a Qualified Retirement, in each case, before the fifth  anniversary of the Vesting Effective Date, your rights to the Restricted Stock Units under this Agreement will be determined as provided in the attached Terms and Conditions (the ).
Terms and Conditions
 
Upon the lapse of the Forfeiture Restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock Units, the Company shall issue to you one share of the Companys Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the ), in exchange for each such Restricted Stock Unit and thereafter you shall have no further rights with respect to such Restricted Stock Unit and such shares of the Common Stock shall be transferable by you (except to the extent that any proposed transfer would, in the opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company, constitute a violation of applicable federal or state securities law).
Common Stock
 
 
 
 
If during the period in which you hold the Restricted Stock Units the Company pays a dividend in shares of the Common Stock with respect to the outstanding shares of the Common Stock, then the Company will increase the Restricted Stock Units that have not then been exchanged by the Company for shares of the Common Stock by an amount equal to the product of (a) the Restricted Stock Units that have not been forfeited to the Company or exchanged by the Company for shares of the Common Stock and (b) the number of shares of the Common Stock paid by the Company per share of the Common Stock (collectively, the ).  Each Stock Dividend Restricted Stock Unit will be subject to same Forfeiture Restrictions and other restrictions, limitations and conditions applicable to the Restricted Stock Unit for which such Stock Dividend Restricted Stock Unit was awarded and will be exchanged for shares of the Common Stock at the same time and on the same basis as such Restricted Stock Unit.
Stock Dividend Restricted Stock Units
 
Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan, shares of Common Stock shall be transferred at the time(s) specified in this Agreement and the Terms and Conditions.
 
The Restricted Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, pledged, exchanged, hypothecated or otherwise transferred, encumbered or disposed of (other than by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution).  Any such attempted sale, assignment, pledge, exchange, hypothecation, transfer, encumbrance or disposition in violation of this Agreement shall be void and the Company shall not be bound thereby.  Any shares of Common Stock issued to you in exchange for the Restricted Stock Units may not be sold or otherwise disposed of in any manner that would constitute a violation of any applicable federal or state securities laws.  You also agree that (a) the Company may refuse to cause the transfer of any such shares of the Common Stock to be registered on the stock register of the Company if such proposed transfer would in the opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company constitute a violation of any applicable federal or state securities law and (b) the Company may give related instructions to the transfer agent, if any, to stop registration of the transfer of such shares of the Common Stock.
 
The shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the Plan are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under a Registration Statement on Form S-8.
 
Capitalized terms that are not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or the Terms and Conditions.
 
In accepting the award of the Restricted Stock Units you accept and agree to be bound by all the terms and conditions of the Plan, this Agreement and the Terms and Conditions.
 
 
 
NEWFIELD EXPLORATION COMPANY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1
 
.  If your employment with the Company Group terminates on or before the Fifth Anniversary Date for any reason other than one of the reasons described in Sections 1.2 through 1.5 below, the Forfeiture Restrictions then applicable to the Restricted Stock Units shall not lapse and the number of Restricted Stock Units then subject to the Forfeiture Restrictions shall be forfeited to the Company on the date your employment terminates.
Termination Generally
 
1.2
 
.  The impact of a Change of Control of the Company on the Restricted Stock Units shall be determined under the provisions of this Section 1.2 rather than under any provisions of the Plan dealing with vesting or the lapse of forfeiture restrictions. If a Change of Control of the Company occurs on or before the Fifth Anniversary Date and you do not terminate employment with the Company Group before the date the Change of Control of the Company occurs, then all remaining Forfeiture Restrictions shall lapse on the date the Change of Control of the Company occurs if the Change of Control of the Company qualifies as a change in the ownership or effective control of the corporation, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the final Department of Treasury Regulations issued thereunder ().
Change of Control
Section 409A
 
1.3
 
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Agreement or these Terms and Conditions to the contrary, if before the Fifth Anniversary Date you incur a Separation From Service due to your having incurred a Disability, then all remaining Forfeiture Restrictions shall immediately lapse on the date you incur a Separation From Service due to your Disability if you are not a Specified Employee or on the date that is six months following your Separation From Service if you are a Specified Employee; that if you die before the expiration of such six-month delay period (if applicable) then all remaining Forfeiture Restrictions shall immediately lapse on the date of your death.  For purposes of this Section 1.3, you will be treated as having a  if you (a) are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (b) are, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company Group.  For purposes of these Terms and Conditions, has the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 409A and means a person who is, as of the date of the persons Separation From Service, a specified employee within the meaning of Section 409A, taking into account any elections made and procedures established in resolutions adopted by the Compensation & Management Development Committee of the Board.
Disability
provided, however,
Disability
Separation From Service
Specified Employee
 
 
 
 
1.4
 
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Agreement or these Terms and Conditions to the contrary, if you die before the Fifth Anniversary Date and before you have otherwise terminated employment with the Company Group, all remaining Forfeiture Restrictions shall immediately lapse on the date of the termination of your employment due to death.
Death
 
1.5
 
. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Agreement or these Terms and Conditions to the contrary, if you incur a Separation From Service as a result of your Qualified Retirement before the Fifth Anniversary Date, then the number of Restricted Stock Units issued to you under the Agreement shall automatically be reduced (without further action by you and/or the Company) on the date you incur a Separation From Service to that number of Restricted Stock Units determined under the following formula (the ):
Qualified Retirement
Retirement Adjusted Restricted Stock Units
 
 
where (1) is the number of the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which Forfeiture Restrictions would have otherwise lapsed on the next anniversary of the Vesting Effective Date following your Separation From Service due to Qualified Retirement, (2) is the number of days, if any, that have elapsed (excluding the date of your Separation From Service) since the most recent anniversary of the Vesting Effective Date before the date you incur a Separation From Service due to Qualified Retirement, and (3) is 365.
 
The excess of the Restricted Stock Units that were originally awarded to you under the Agreement over the Retirement Adjusted Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited on the date you incur a Separation From Service due to Qualified Retirement.  The Forfeiture Restrictions with respect to the Retirement Adjusted Restricted Stock Units shall immediately lapse on the date you incur a Separation From Service due to your Qualified Retirement if you are not a Specified Employee or on the date that is six months following your Separation From Service if you are a Specified Employee; that if you die before the expiration of such six-month delay period (if applicable) then all remaining Forfeiture Restrictions shall immediately lapse on the date of your death.
provided, however,
 
For purposes of this Section 1.5 means you (i) either are (A) at least age 60 and sign a non-compete agreement (the form of which is attached hereto as ) that is effective until your reaching age 62 or (B) are at least age 62, (ii) have at least 10 years of Qualified Service and (iii) provide the Requisite Notice.   means (i) your continuous employment with (A) the Company or (B) a subsidiary of the Company during the time that such subsidiary is, directly or indirectly, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company plus (b) any additional service credit granted to you (or a group of employees of which you are a member) by the Board.   means (a) if you are an officer of the Company, at least six months prior written notice to the Board or (b) otherwise, at least three months prior written notice to the chief executive officer of the Company.
Qualified Retirement
Exhibit A
Qualified Service
Requisite Notice
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
(this ) is dated as of [date of Qualified Retirement] and is by and between Newfield Exploration Company, a Delaware corporation (the ) and ________________, a retiring employee of the Company ().
THIS NON-COMPETE AGREEMENT
Agreement
Company
Retiring Employee
 
 
, Retiring Employee has been granted the awards set forth on hereto (the ) by the Company;
WHEREAS
Annex A
Awards
 
, pursuant to the terms of the agreements governing the Awards (the ), Retiring Employee is entitled to certain benefits (the ) if Retiring Employees termination of employment with the Company is by reason of a Qualified Retirement (as defined in each of the Award Agreements); and
WHEREAS
Award Agreements
Retirement Benefits
 
, it is a condition to Retiring Employee being entitled to the Retirement Benefits that Retiring Employee enter into a Non-Compete Agreement substantially in the form of this Agreement;
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the premises, the Retirement Benefits to be provided to Retiring Employee and the other covenants and agreements herein contained, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
           .
1.
Definitions; Rules of Construction
 
(a)           The following capitalized terms shall have the meaning given to it below:
Definitions
.  
 
 means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, such specified Person and, if such specified Person is a natural person, the immediate family members of such specified Person.  Control (including the terms controlled by and under common control with), with respect to the relationship between or among two or more Persons, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the affairs or management of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, as trustee or executor, as general partner or manager, by contract or otherwise, including the ownership, directly or indirectly, of securities having the power to elect a majority of the board of directors or similar body governing the affairs of such Person.
Affiliate
 
 means any business involved in the acquisition or development of, or exploration for, crude oil or natural gas or any rights in or with respect crude oil or natural gas within the Covered Area; that Competing Business shall not include any business that provides services solely to assist other Persons in the acquisition or development of, or exploration for, crude oil or natural gas or any rights in or with respect to crude oil or natural gas but does not itself acquire or develop, or explore for, crude oil or natural gas or any rights in or with respect to crude oil or natural gas within the Covered Area.
Competing Business
provided, however,
 
 
 
 
 
 means (a) the United States of America and (b) any foreign jurisdiction (i) in which the Company is operating or (ii) with respect to which the Company is actively considering for operations, in the case of clause (b) only, as of the date hereof.
Covered Area
 
 means any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, trust, incorporated or unincorporated organization or association or other legal entity of any kind.
Person
 
 means the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the date on which Retiring Employee attains the age of 62.
Term
 
(b)           .  For purposes of this Agreement (i) unless the context otherwise requires, (A) or is not exclusive; (B) words applicable to one gender shall be construed to apply to each gender; (C) the terms hereof, herein, hereby, hereto and derivative or similar words refer to this entire Agreement and (D) the term Section refers to the specified Section of this Agreement, (ii) the Section and other headings and titles contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement, (iii) a reference to any Person includes such Persons successors and assigns.
Rules of Construction
 
           .During the Term, Retiring Employee covenants and agrees with the Company that Retiring Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, individually, through an Affiliate or otherwise (including as an officer, director, employee or consultant) own an interest or engage in, participate with or provide any financial or other support, assistance or advice to any Competing Business; , , that Retiring Employee may (i) when taken together with the ownership, directly or indirectly, of all of his Affiliates, own, solely as an investment, up to 5% of any class of securities of any Person if such securities are listed on any national securities exchange or traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market so long as Retiring Employee is not a director, officer, employee of, or analogously employed or engaged by, such Person or any of such Persons Affiliates or (ii) own securities issued by the Company. In addition, Retiring Employee agrees that during the Term he shall not, directly or indirectly: (1) interfere with the relationship of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company, or endeavor to entice away from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company, any individual or entity who was or is a material customer or material supplier of, or who has maintained a material business relationship with, the Company or its Affiliates, (2) establish (or take preliminary steps to establish) a business with, or cause or attempt to cause others to establish (or take preliminary steps to establish) a business with, any employee or agent of the Company or any of its Affiliates, if such business competes with or will compete with the Company or any of its Affiliates, or (3) employ, engage as a consultant or adviser, or solicit employment, engagement as a consultant or adviser, of any employee or agent of the Company or any of its Affiliates, or cause or attempt to cause any individual or entity to do any of the foregoing.  Retiring Employee agrees that the restrictions contained in this Section 2 are necessary to protect confidential information the Company has provided to Retiring Employee.
2.
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
 
provided
however
 
 
 
 
           .Retiring Employee specifically acknowledges and agrees that the Company, in providing the Retirement Benefits, has relied on the agreements and covenants of Retiring Employee contained in this Agreement and that the terms of this Agreement are reasonable and necessary for the protection of the Company.  Retiring Employee specifically acknowledges and agrees that any breach or threatened breach by Retiring Employee of his or her agreements and covenants contained herein would cause the Company irreparable harm not compensable solely in damages.  Retiring Employee further acknowledges and agrees that it is essential to the effective enforcement of this Agreement that Company be entitled to the remedies of specific performance, injunctive relief and similar remedies and Retiring Employee agrees to the granting of any such remedies upon a breach or threatened breach by Retiring Employee of any of the terms hereof.  The Company also shall be entitled to pursue any other remedies (at law or in equity) available to it for any breach or threatened breach of this Agreement, including the recovery of money damages.
 3.
   
 
Specific Performance; Injunctive Relief
 
 
           .  If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule of law or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect.  The parties agree to cooperate in any revision of this Agreement that may be necessary to meet the requirements of law.
4.
Severability
 
           .  No amendment or modification of the terms or provisions of this Agreement shall be binding unless the same shall be in writing and duly executed by the Company and Retiring Employee, except that any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement may be waived in writing at any time by the party that is entitled to the benefits of such waived terms or provisions.  No single waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to or shall constitute, absent an express statement otherwise, a continuous waiver of such provision or a waiver of any other provision hereof (whether or not similar).
5.
Amendment; Modification; Waiver
 
           .  No failure or delay on the part of any party hereto in the exercise of any right hereunder shall impair such right or be construed to be a waiver of, or acquiescence in, any breach of any covenant or agreement herein, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude other or further exercise thereof or of any other right.  All rights and remedies existing under this Agreement are cumulative with, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies otherwise available.
6.
Failure or Indulgence Not Waiver; Remedies Cumulative
 
           .  This Agreement shall in no way affect any other duties or obligations Retiring Employee owes to the Company by contract, law or otherwise.
7.
No Effect on Retiring Employees Obligations
 
           .  If either party hereto institutes any legal proceedings against the other for breach of any provision hereof, the losing party shall be liable for the costs and expenses of the prevailing party, including without limitation its reasonable attorneys fees.
8.
Legal Fees
 
           .  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
9.
Counterparts
 
 
 
 
           . This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Texas applicable to agreements made and to be performed wholly within that jurisdiction.
10.
Governing Law; Consent to Jurisdiction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, the Company has caused this Agreement to be duly executed by an authorized officer and Retiring Employee has executed this Agreement, in each case, as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
NEWFIELD EXPLORATION COMPANY
By:                                                                  
Name:
Title:
RETIRING EMPLOYEE
[Retiring Employee]

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Board of Directors named Lee K. Boothby, 47, as Chief Executive Officer at the Company's Annual Meeting. He also was elected by Newfields stockholders as a member of the Companys Board of Directors. The Board previously named Boothby to the role of President on February 5. Boothby succeeds David A. Trice, 61, who retired as Chief Executive Officer at the Companys Annual Meeting. Trice was re-elected as a director and will serve a one-year term as non-executive Chairman of the Board.
Houston  May 11, 2009 
Newfield Exploration Companys (NYSE: NFX)
I am excited and enthusiastic about my expanded leadership role at Newfield, said Boothby. Newfield has a proud history.  Although we have dramatically transformed our asset base, we have retained great qualities that will carry us into the future: proven people; a diverse portfolio of assets; financial strength; visible growth; and risk management.
Lee K. Boothby
Boothby joined Newfield nearly 10 years ago and prior to becoming President in February served as Senior Vice President - Acquisitions and Business Development. Prior to this role, he served as President of the Company's Mid-Continent division from February 2002 to October 2007. The Mid-Continent division, located in Tulsa, Okla., has been the Companys fastest growing division over the last three years in terms of production and reserves. Boothby's leadership is most evident in the success of the Woodford Shale play, now the Company's largest asset.
Gary D. Packer
Gary D. Packer, 46, was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Packer joined Newfield in 1995 and most recently served as President of Newfield's Rocky Mountain division in Denver. He had served in this position since Newfields acquisition of Inland Resources in 2004. Packer led the Company's second largest division, more than tripling production and reserves.
Terry W. Rathert
Terry W. Rathert, 56, was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to this promotion, he had served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 1994 and also served as Secretary of Newfield until May 2008. Rathert is a founding member of the Company.
 
Daryll T. Howard
Daryll T. Howard, 46,
was promoted to Vice President - Rocky Mountains, succeeding Gary D. Packer. Prior to this promotion, he had served as East Team Rocky Mountain Asset Manager since June 2008. Previously, he assisted in establishing Newfields Malaysia office and the growth of the Companys international operations. Before this, he held positions of increasing responsibility in Newfields Gulf of Mexico organization. He holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Petroleum Engineering from Louisiana State University.
Samuel E. Langford
Samuel E. Langford, 51, was promoted to Vice President - Corporate Development. Prior to this promotion, he had served as Manager - Acquisitions, Planning and Commercial Development of Newfields Mid-Continent division.  He holds a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from Auburn.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
For information, contact:
Investor Relations: Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
Media Relations: Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email:
info@newfield.com


