FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20100208094100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
       On February 5, 2010, during discussions at a meeting of Newfield Exploration Companys ("Newfield" or the "Company") Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee, Dennis R. Hendrix, 70, a long-time member of Newfields Board of Directors, announced that he plans to retire from the Board and will not stand for re-election at the Companys annual meeting on May 7, 2010.  Mr. Hendrix, retired Chairman, PanEnergy Corp., has served on Newfields Board since 1997.A copy of the press release regarding this event is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
  
Item 8.01  Other Events
On February 5, 2010, Newfield's Board of Directors namedLee K. Boothby, 48, to the additional role of Chairman of the Board, effective upon his re-election at the Companys annual stockholders meeting on May 7, 2010. Mr. Boothby will add the additional responsibilities of Chairman to his current position as President and Chief Executive Officer.  Mr. Boothby succeeds David A. Trice, Newfields current Chairman and past President and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Mr. Trice, 60, was one of Newfields 23 founders in 1989, served in numerous leadership roles and was instrumental in building the Company.  As disclosed in connection with Mr. Trices May 2009 retirement as a Newfield employee, Mr. Trice had previously agreed to serve a one-year term as non-executive Chairman until the Companys 2010 annual meeting of stockholders and he will not stand for re-election as a director at the Companys annual meeting in May 2010.
Also on February 5, 2010, Philip J. Burguieres, 66, was named Newfields independent Lead Director, effective May 7, 2010 upon his re-election to the Board of Directors.  He has served on Newfields Board since 1998 and serves today as Chairman of Newfields Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee and a member of Newfields Compensation & Management Development Committee. 
A copy of the press release describing these actions is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
  
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Board of Directors has named, 48, to the additional role of Chairman of the Board, effective upon his re-election at the Companys annual stockholders meeting on May 7, 2010. Boothby will add the additional responsibilities of Chairman to his current position as President and Chief Executive Officer. Boothby succeeds David A. Trice, current Chairman and past President and CEO, who had previously agreed to serve a one-year term as non-executive Chairman until the Companys 2010 annual meeting of stockholders.
Houston -- February 8, 2010 
Newfield Exploration Companys (NYSE: NFX)
Lee K. Boothby
Lee has done a great job of leading Newfield over the last year, said David A. Trice. His understanding of the business, coupled with his passion for excellence, has helped take Newfield to new heights over the last year. He is successfully using Newfields diverse portfolio of assets to allocate capital to growth areas, as well as position the Company for long-term success. I am confident that Lee will continue to build value for our stockholders.
 
Boothby was named President on February 5, 2009. He was named Chief Executive Officer and elected to Newfields Board of Directors on May 7, 2009.
Boothby joined Newfield in 1999. Prior to his current role as President and CEO, he served as Senior Vice President  Acquisitions and Business Development from October 2007  February 2009. Prior to this, he served as President of the Companys Mid-Continent division from February 2002 to October 2007. Boothbys first assignment with Newfield, 1999  2002, was Vice President and General Manager of Newfields previous Australian business unit, managed from Perth, Australia.
Prior to joining Newfield, Boothby worked for Cockrell Oil Corporation, British Gas and Tenneco Oil Company. Boothby serves as a board member for ANGA (Americas Natural Gas Alliance) and OERB (Oklahoma Energy Resources Board). He is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the Independent Petroleum Association of America. He holds a degree in petroleum engineering from Louisiana State University and an M.B.A. from Rice University.
, 66, was named Newfields independent Lead Director, effective May 7, 2010, upon his re-election to the Board of Directors. He has served on Newfields Board since 1998 and serves today as Chairman of the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee and a member of the Compensation & Management Development Committee. He currently serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EMC Holdings, LLC, Vice Chairman of Houston Texans, Chairman Emeritus of Weatherford International, Inc. and as a Director of FMC Technologies, Inc. Burguieres has previously served as President and CEO for Weatherford, Panhandle Eastern Corp and Cameron Iron Works during his long career in the oil field service industry.
Philip J. Burguieres
, 60, was one of Newfields 23 founders in 1989. Trice served in numerous leadership roles and was instrumental in building the Company. Trice was elected President of Newfield in May 1999 and succeeded the Companys Founder, Joe B. Foster, as CEO in early 2000 and as Chairman in 2004.
David A. Trice
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
For information, contact:
Investor Relations: Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
Media Relations: Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email:
info@newfield.com


