FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20101112101318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
On November 11, 2010, Newfield Exploration Company released details of its complete hedging positions as of November 10, 2010 through its @NFX publication.  A copy of this publication is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
3
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1  
@NFX is periodically published to keep shareholders aware of current operating activities at Newfield. It may include estimates of expected production volumes, costs and expenses, recent changes to hedging positions and commodity pricing.
 
November 11, 2010
 
Newfield recently added additional crude oil and natural gas hedges. Items highlighted reflect new and/or changed data since our last publication on October 20, 2010.
The following tables update our complete hedge positions for natural gas and crude oil.
NATURAL GAS HEDGE POSITIONS
The following hedge positions for the fourth quarter of 2010 and beyond are as of November 10, 2010:
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
*These 3-way collar contracts are standard natural gas collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per MMMBtu as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of per MMMBtu. Below per MMMBtu, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average $ per MMMBtu higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
$4.29
$4.29
1.32
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX gas prices, net of premiums paid for these contracts (in millions).
In the Rocky Mountains, we hedged basis associated with approximately 11 Bcf of our natural gas production from October 2010 through December 2012 to lock in the differential at a weighted average of $0.94 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.  In total, this hedge and the 8,000 MMBtu per day we have sold on a fixed physical basis for the same period results in an average basis hedge of $0.92 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.
In the Mid-Continent, we hedged basis associated with approximately 6 Bcf of our anticipated Stiles/Britt Ranch natural gas production from October 2010 through August 2011.  In total, this hedge and the 30,000 MMBtu per day we have sold on a fixed physical basis for the same period results in an average basis hedge of $0.52 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.  We have also hedged basis associated with approximately 23 Bcf of our natural gas production from this area for the period September 2011 through December 2012 at an average of $0.55 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.
Approximately 18% of our natural gas production correlates to Houston Ship Channel, 13% to Columbia Gulf, 13% to Texas Gas Zone 1, to Southern Natural Gas, 4% to Tetco ELA, 3% to Tenn 100, to CenterPoint/East, 19% to Panhandle Eastern Pipeline, 4% to Waha, 4% to Colorado Interstate, and 7% to others.
9%
6%
 
3
 
 
CRUDE OIL HEDGE POSITIONS
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
*These 3-way collar contracts are standard crude oil collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per Bbl as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of per Bbl. Below per Bbl, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average per Bbl higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
$59.14
$59.14
$19.33
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX oil prices, net of premiums paid for these contracts (in millions).
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
We provide information regarding our outstanding hedging positions in our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and in our electronic publication -- @NFX.  This publication can be found on Newfields web page at . Through the web page, you may elect to receive @NFX through e-mail distribution.
http://www.newfield.com
 
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through the drilling of a balanced risk/reward portfolio and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
 
6


