FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20101222172252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
On November 15, 2010, Newfield Exploration Company entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) with EOG Resources, Inc. to purchase approximately 50,000 net acres in the Marcellus Shale.  On December 22, 2010, the parties mutually agreed to terminate the PSA. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.1
EOG RESOURCES AND NEWFIELD TERMINATE MARCELLUS AGREEMENT
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:  December 22, 2010
HOUSTON  EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) and Newfield Exploration Company, under the terms provided for in the purchase and sale agreement, have mutually agreed to terminate the agreement announced November 15, 2010 regarding EOGs sale of certain Marcellus Shale acreage.
EOG Resources, Inc. is one of the largest independent (non-integrated) oil and natural gas companies in the United States with proved reserves in the United States, Canada, Trinidad, the United Kingdom and China.  EOG Resources, Inc is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol EOG.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company.  The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions.  Newfields domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas, Appalachia and the Gulf of Mexico.  The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
 


