FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20100722195120.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 22, 2010, Newfield Exploration Company (Newfield) issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2010 operating results and third quarter and full-year 2010 earnings guidance.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
On July 22, 2010, Newfield issued its @NFX publication, which includes third quarter and full-year 2010 guidance and tables detailing complete hedging positions as of July 21, 2010.  A copy of the publication is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
3
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported its unaudited second quarter 2010 financial results. A separate operational update was released on July 21 and this release and the operational update release are available through the investor relations section of the Companys website. Newfield will host a conference call at 8:30 a.m. (CDT) on Friday, July 23. To participate in the call, dial 719-325-2187 or listen through the investor relations section of the website at .
Houston  July 22, 2010 
Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX)
http://www.newfield.com
For the second quarter of 2010, Newfield recorded net income of $96 million, or $0.72 per diluted share (all per share amounts are on a diluted basis). Net income includes the effect of these items:
 Without the effect of these items, net income for the second quarter of 2010 would have been $142 million, or $1.06 per share.
Revenues in the second quarter of 2010 were $448 million. Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $383 million. See found after the financial statements in this release.
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Newfields production in the second quarter of 2010 was 73 Bcfe, or 9% over first quarter 2010 production. Natural gas production in the second quarter of 2010 was 51 Bcf, an average of 564 MMcf/d. Newfields oil liftings in the second quarter of 2010 were 3.6 MMBbls, an average of approximately 40,000 BOPD. Capital expenditures in the second quarter of 2010 were approximately $441 million.
On July 8, Newfields credit rating was raised to investment grade BBB- with a stable outlook by Standard & Poors.  The Companys subordinated debt rating from S&P remains BB+. The Company currently has a Ba2 credit rating from Moodys Investor Services and a BB+ rating from Fitch Ratings.
 
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
**This release contains forward-looking information. All information other than historical facts included in this release, such as information regarding estimated or anticipated third quarter and full year 2010 results, estimated capital expenditures, cash flow, production and cost reductions, drilling and development plans and the timing of activities and liftings, is forward-looking information. Although Newfield believes that these expectations are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support ser vices, the availability of refining capacity for the crude oil Newfield produces from its Monument Butte field in Utah, the availability and cost of capital resources, labor conditions and severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes). In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.
For information, contact:
Investor Relations: Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
Media Relations: Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email:
info@newfield.com
 
 
2
 
 
 
2Q10 Actual Results
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Earnings Stated Without the Effect of Certain Items
Earnings stated without the effect of certain items is a non-GAAP financial measure. Earnings without the effect of these items are presented because they affect the comparability of operating results from period to period. In addition, earnings without the effect of these items are more comparable to earnings estimates provided by securities analysts.
A reconciliation of earnings for the second quarter of 2010 stated without the effect of certain items to net income is shown below:
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Before Changes in Operating Assets and Liabilities
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities is presented because of its acceptance as an indicator of an oil and gas exploration and production companys ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur additional debt. This measure should not be considered as an alternative to net cash provided by operating activities as defined by generally accepted accounting principles.
A reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities to net cash provided by operating activities is shown below:
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
@NFX is periodically published to keep shareholders aware of current operating activities at Newfield. It may include estimates of expected production volumes, costs and expenses, recent changes to hedging positions and commodity pricing.
July 22, 2010
 
On Wednesday, July 21, we released a detailed mid-year operational update covering all of our business units. A copy of the release can be found on our website.
This edition of @NFX includes:
THIRD QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2010 ESTIMATES
 
 
1
 
 
 
The following tables update our complete hedge positions for natural gas and crude oil. Items highlighted reflect new and/or changed data since our last publication on May 5, 2010.
NATURAL GAS HEDGE POSITIONS
The following hedge positions for the third quarter of 2010 and beyond are as of July 21, 2010:
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
*These 3-way collar contracts are standard natural gas collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per MMMBtu as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of $4.50 per MMMBtu. Below $4.50 per MMMBtu, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average per MMMBtu higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
$1.39
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX gas prices, net of premiums paid for these contracts (in millions).
In the Rocky Mountains, we hedged basis associated with approximately Bcf of our natural gas production from July 2010 through December 2012 to lock in the differential at a weighted average of per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.  In total, this hedge and the 8,000 MMBtu per day we have sold on a fixed physical basis for the same period results in an average basis hedge of $0.93 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.
12
$0.94
In the Mid-Continent, we hedged basis associated with approximately Bcf of our anticipated Stiles/Britt Ranch natural gas production from July 2010 through August 2011.  In total, this hedge and the 30,000 MMBtu per day we have sold on a fixed physical basis for the same period results in an average basis hedge of $0.52 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.  We have also hedged basis associated with approximately 23 Bcf of our natural gas production from this area for the period September 2011 through December 2012 at an average of $0.55 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.
8
Approximately of our natural gas production correlates to Houston Ship Channel, to Columbia Gulf, to Texas Gas Zone 1, to Southern Natural Gas, to Tenn 100, 5% to CenterPoint/East, to Panhandle Eastern Pipeline, to Waha, to Colorado Interstate, and
17%
13%
13%
13%
3%
19%
4%
6%
7%< /font> to others.
 
 
4
 
CRUDE OIL HEDGE POSITIONS
The following hedge positions for the third quarter of 2010 and beyond are as of July 21, 2010:
 
5
 
 
*These 3-way collar contracts are standard crude oil collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per Bbl as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of per Bbl. Below per Bbl, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average per Bbl higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
$61.01
$61.01
$15.85
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX oil prices, net of premiums paid for these contracts (in millions).
 
We provide information regarding our outstanding hedging positions in our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and in our electronic publication -- @NFX.  This publication can be found on Newfields web page at . Through the web page, you may elect to receive @NFX through e-mail distribution.
http://www.newfield.com
 
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through the drilling of a balanced risk/reward portfolio and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
 
 
 


