FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20100112110511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
Newfield Exploration Company (Newfield) today issued its @NFX publication in connection with Newfields presentation at the 2010 Goldman Sachs Energy Conference in Tampa, Florida.  A copy of the publication is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01  Other Events
 
Newfield also issued a news release today providing an update on Newfields previously disclosed offer to acquire assets from TXCO Resources Inc. The press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
@NFX is periodically published to keep shareholders aware of current operating activities at Newfield. It may include estimates of expected production volumes, costs and expenses, recent changes to hedging positions and commodity pricing.
January 12, 2010  Goldman Sachs Conference
Newfield Exploration Company will disclose the following information at the 2010 Goldman Sachs Energy Conference in Tampa, Florida.
The Rocky Mountains:
 Newfield has more than 200,000 gross acres (more than 150,000 net) in the Uinta Basin. The region is the centerpiece of the Companys domestic oil assets. Major field areas in the Uinta Basin include Monument Butte, the adjoining Ute Tribal acreage and Horseshoe Bend (located 15 miles northeast of Monument Butte).
Uinta Basin
Recent drilling successes highlight the potential on the Ute Tribal acreage -- an area encompassing 63,000 gross acres immediately north of Monument Butte. To date, the Company has drilled 65 wells on the Tribal acreage and current gross production is approximately 1,500 BOPD. An operated rig will be dedicated to drill wells on this acreage throughout 2010. Notable recent wells include:
Newfield plans to run at least five operated rigs in its Monument Butte field area in 2010. Current gross production is approximately 16,500 BOPD. Production from the Monument Butte field area is expected to grow more than 10-15% in 2010.
Over the last several years, Newfield has been pursuing the formation and approval of a super unit in the Monument Butte field. The super unit, approved in December 2009, consolidates all of the previously existing units and non-unitized leases and allows for waterflood operations across common interests and 20-acre infill drilling on previous unit or lease line boundaries. The super unit approval will allow for additional oil reserves to be booked as proved at year-end 2009.
1
Newfield has more than 500,000 net acres, which includes more than 330,000 highly-prospective net acres in the Williston and Southern Alberta Basins. The table below categorizes the net acres by development, appraisal or exploration. Newfield expects to run a three to four rig program in 2010 to expedite the evaluation of the acreage and grow oil production by an estimated 40% over 2009 levels.
Williston and Southern Alberta Basin
-
In the Williston Basin, Newfield has ramped up drilling in its core development areas, located primarily along the Nesson Anticline (see map on Newfield website).
In 2010, Newfield plans to drill 22 development wells in the Williston Basin. One rig will be dedicated exclusively to appraising the Catwalk, Aquarium and Watford areas where three successful wells have been drilled to date.
In the Southern Alberta Basin, Newfield now has 221,000 net acres  including 156,000 net acres added through a new exploration venture with the Blackfeet Indian Nation. The acreage is located in Glacier County, Montana. The area is geologically similar to the Williston Basin and is prospective in the oil bearing Bakken, Three Forks and Lodgepole formations. The Company plans to drill up to 10 wells on the acreage in 2010.
The following table details Newfields significant oil plays in the Rocky Mountain Region:
 
2
 
Rocky Mountain Oil Summary
Table does not include developed property base for Uinta or Williston Basins
(1)  
Predominately 20-acre spacing at Monument Butte, 40-acre spacing elsewhere; includes approximately 70 MMBOE for additional secondary recovery
(2)  
320-acre spacing, multiple horizons
(3)  
320-acre spacing
3
4
 
 
Mid-Continent:
Newfields largest division is the Mid-Continent. The region accounted for 43% of the Companys estimated total 2009 production. Production from the division grew more than 20% in 2009, excluding the 2.6 Bcfe that was voluntarily curtailed in the third quarter of 2009 due to low gas prices.
Newfields net acreage position in the Woodford is approximately 166,500 acres. Substantially all of the acreage is now held by production. Current gross operated production is approximately 300 MMcfe/d, or 170 MMcfe/d net. Production is expected to further increase in the first quarter of 2010 as more than 20 wells (deferred completions from the second half of 2009) are completed and placed on production.
The Woodford
 
 
Six of those 20 wells are super extended laterals  or SXLs (laterals >5000) -- and will have lateral lengths of more than 7,000. Two of the recent SXL wells were completed with initial production rates of 6 and 10 MMcfe/d (gross). The Company expects to have results from four additional SXL completions in the first quarter of 2010. Newfield expects that the average lateral length of its Woodford completions in 2010 will be approximately 6,000.
To date, Newfield has drilled more than 300 operated horizontal wells in the play. Newfield has significantly enhanced the economics in the Woodford through improved efficiencies and the drilling and completion of longer lateral wells.
Based on drilling to date and 3-D seismic data that covers the entirety of Newfields Woodford acreage, the Company estimates that approximately 25% of its Woodford acreage will ultimately be developed with SXL completions. The Company has applied to unitize a large portion of its acreage to facilitate drilling more SXLs. Approval of the unit would increase this estimated percentage to approximately 33% of the acreage, or 55,000 net acres.
 
Newfield expects to run 6-8 operated rigs in the Woodford in 2010 and increase production by approximately 20% over 2009 levels.
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
7
 
 
Onshore Gulf Coast:
Newfield also issued a news release today providing an update on Newfields previously disclosed offer to acquire assets from TXCO Resources Inc.
NATURAL GAS HEDGE POSITIONS
Please see the tables below for our complete hedging positions.
8
The following hedge positions for the first quarter of 2010 and beyond are as of January 8, 2010:
First Quarter 2010
Second Quarter 2010
Third Quarter 2010
Fourth Quarter 2010
First Quarter 2011
Second Quarter 2011
Third Quarter 2011
Fourth Quarter 2011
*These 3-way collar contracts are standard natural gas collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per MMMBtu as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of $4.50 per MMMBtu. Below $4.50 per MMMBtu, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average $1.50 per MMMBtu higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized
.
 
9
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX gas prices, net of premiums paid for these contracts (in millions).
In the Rocky Mountains, we hedged basis associated with 48% of the proved producing fields from January 2010 through full-year 2012. This is in addition to the 8,000 MMBtu/d sold on a fixed physical basis for the same term for a total basis hedged for the period of 73% at an average of $(0.94) per MMBtu.
In the Mid-Continent, we hedged basis associated with 22% of our anticipated Stiles/Britt priced production from January 2010 through August 2011. This is in addition to the 30,000 MMbtu/d sold on a fixed physical basis for the same term for a total basis hedged for the period of 55% at an average of $(0.52) per MMBtu. We hedged basis associated with 53% of our anticipated Stiles/Britt production from September 2011 through December 2012 at an average of $(0.55) per MMBtu.
Approximately 10% of our natural gas production correlates to Houston Ship Channel, 13% to Columbia Gulf, 13% to Texas Gas Zone 1, 5% to Southern Natural Gas, 10% to Tenn 100, 6% to CenterPoint/East, 24% to Panhandle Eastern Pipeline, 6% to Waha, 7% to Colorado Interstate, and 6% to others.
CRUDE OIL HEDGE POSITIONS
 
The following hedge positions for the first quarter of 2010 and beyond are as of January 8, 2010:
 
First Quarter 2010
Second Quarter 2010
Third Quarter 2010
10
Fourth Quarter 2010
First Quarter 2011
Second Quarter 2011
Third Quarter 2011
Fourth Quarter 2011
*These 3-way collar contracts are standard crude oil collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per Bbl as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of $58.75 per Bbl. Below $58.75 per Bbl, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average $13.75 per Bbl higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX oil prices, net of premiums paid for these contracts (in millions).
 
11
We provide information regarding our outstanding hedging positions in our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and in our electronic publication -- @NFX.  This publication can be found on Newfields web page at . Through the web page, you may elect to receive @NFX through e-mail distribution.
http://www.newfield.com
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through the drilling of a balanced risk/reward portfolio and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the U.S. onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
This publication contains forward-looking information. All information other than historical facts included in this publication, such as information regarding estimated or anticipated results, estimated production and costs, drilling and development plans and the timing of activities, is forward-looking information. Although Newfield believes that these expectations are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of refining capacity for the crude oil Newfield produces from its Monument Butte field in Utah, the availability and cost of capital resources, labor conditions and severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes). In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks.
 
12
 

Exhibit 99.2
N e w s R e l e a s e
 
 
, Jan. 12, 2010  Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX) and Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC) announced today a joint transaction to acquire TXCO Resources Inc.s (TXCO) assets in the Maverick Basin of Southwest Texas for up to $310 million. The final amount will be determined at closing, which is expected in mid-February 2010. The closing is subject to bankruptcy court approval.
HOUSTON
 
According to the terms of the transaction, a wholly owned subsidiary of Anadarko will acquire more than 80,000 net acres in this basin from TXCO for approximately $93 million and increase its operated working interest in these properties to 75 percent.
 
Newfield will acquire substantially all of TXCOs remaining assets in the Maverick Basin, which include more than 350,000 gross acres (300,000 net acres), for approximately $217 million. Current net production of the assets to be acquired by Newfield is 1,500 BOEPD, of which two-thirds is oil. The acreage has multiple geologic targets, primarily in the Eagleford and Pearsall formations.
 
Newfield President and CEO Lee K. Boothby said, This acquisition is consistent with our goal of focusing on large, domestic plays of scale. Including this transaction, we have added more than 500,000 net acres in long-lived resource plays over the last several months. Our acquisition of TXCOs assets will mark an entry into the Maverick Basin and provide us with a deep inventory of potential locations  both oil and gas. We have been active in South Texas for more than a decade and our people have a proven track record of success. We will ensure that our team is focused on the right assets in this region to create long-term value for our shareholders. We expect to have an active drilling program in 2010.
 
Bob Daniels, Anadarko Sr. Vice President, Worldwide Exploration, stated, The additional interest being acquired increases our position in this program and should afford Anadarko strong growth opportunities in the high-potential emerging Eagleford and Pearsall shale plays. The enhanced liquids yield weve encountered to date in the Eagleford offers significant value and balances the dry gas opportunities found in the Pearsall. We have been very encouraged with our early results, are pleased to add to our existing 180,000 net acres in this area and look forward to continued success.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
Anadarko Petroleum Corporations mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the worlds health and welfare. As of year-end 2008, the company had approximately 2.3 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the worlds largest independent exploration and production companies. For more information about Anadarko, please visit
www.anadarko.com
.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The companies believe that their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this news release, including drilling risks, the ability to execute on production and development plans and the ability to consummate the transactions described in this release. See Risk Factors in the companies 2008 Annual Reports on Form 10-K and other public filings and press releases from the companies. The companies undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


