FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20100219132336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On February 19, 2010, Newfield Exploration Company (the "Company") announced that it had accepted for purchase and payment approximately $143 million of the $175 million aggregate principal amount of its 7% Senior Notes due 2011 (the "2011 Notes") representing approximately 82% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2011 Notes, that were validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) prior to the expiration date of the tender offer at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on February 18, 2010, pursuant to its previously announced tender offer and consent solicitation, which commenced on January 20, 2010.
     On February 192010, the Company entered into the first supplemental indenture with U.S. Bank National Association (as successor to Wachovia Bank, National Association, formerly First Union Bank) as trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture") to the indenture and officers' certificate governing the Company's 2011 Notes (collectively, the "Indenture") following the receipt of the requisite consents of the holders of the 2011 Notes. The First Supplemental Indenture became operative upon notification to the trustee of the purchase by the Company of a majority of the outstanding 2011 Notes pursuant to its tender offer and consent solicitation. The amendments to the Indenture contained in the First Supplemental Indenture include the elimination of substantially all the restrictive covenants, certain events of default and certain other provisions. A copy of the First Supplemental Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. The description of the First Supplemental Indenture contained herein is qualified in its entirety by the full text of such exhibit.
,
     The information set forth in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
     On February 19, 2010, the Company issued a press release, which announced the receipt of the requisite consents with respect to its tender offer and consent solicitation for its 2011 Notes. A copy of the press release regarding this matter is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
     , dated as of February 19, 2010 (this ""), supplements and amends that certain Indenture dated as of February 28, 2001 (the "") between Newfield Exploration Company, a Delaware corporation (the "") and U.S. Bank National Association (as successor trustee to Wachovia Bank, National Association, formerly First Union National Bank), a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Supplemental Indenture
Original Indenture
Company
     WHEREAS, the Company and the original Trustee have executed and delivered the Original Indenture, and, in accordance with Section 301 of the Original Indenture, established the terms of a series of Securities issued under the Original Indenture designated as the 7/% Senior Notes due 2011 (the "") pursuant to the Officers' Certificate dated as of February 28, 2001 (the "," and together with the Original Indenture, the "");
5
8
Notes
Officers' Certificate
Indenture
     WHEREAS, on or about February 28, 2001, the Company issued $175,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes, all of which Notes are currently outstanding;
     WHEREAS, Section 902 of the Original Indenture provides that, subject to the terms thereof, the Company and the Trustee may, with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, enter into a supplemental indenture for the purpose of amending the Indenture as it relates to the Notes, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase, of the Notes;
     WHEREAS, the Company has made a tender offer (the "") to each registered Holder of Notes to purchase, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, dated January 20, 2010, as amended, modified or supplemented (the ""), any and all of such Holder's outstanding Notes for an amount in cash specified in the Offer to Purchase (the "");
Tender Offer
Offer to Purchase
Tender Offer Consideration
     WHEREAS, in conjunction with the Tender Offer, the Company has also solicited consents from the Holders for certain proposed amendments (the "") to the Indenture as it relates to the Notes, which Proposed Amendments are contained in this Supplemental Indenture;
Proposed Amendments
     WHEREAS, (1) the Company has received the consent of the Holders of more than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes for the Proposed Amendments, all as certified by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, (2) the Company has delivered to the Trustee simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture an Opinion of Counsel relating to this Supplemental Indenture as contemplated by Section 102 of the Original Indenture and (3) the Company has satisfied all other conditions required under the Original Indenture to enable the Company and the Trustee to enter into this Supplemental Indenture.
 
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above premises, each party hereby agrees, for the benefit of the others and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes, as follows:
The Original Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes as follows:
     Section 1.1 Section 704 of the Original Indenture is hereby eliminated in its entirety and replaced with the words: ", INTENTIONALLY OMITTED."
Section 704
     Section 1.2 Section 801 of the Original Indenture is hereby eliminated in its entirety and replaced with the words: ", INTENTIONALLY OMITTED."
Section 801
     Section 1.3 Section 802 of the Original Indenture is hereby eliminated in its entirety and replaced with the words: ", INTENTIONALLY OMITTED."
Section 802
     Section 1.4 Section 1006 of the Original Indenture is hereby eliminated in its entirety and replaced with the words: ", INTENTIONALLY OMITTED."
Section 1006
     Section 1.5 Section 1007 of the Original Indenture is hereby eliminated in its entirety and replaced with the words: ", INTENTIONALLY OMITTED."
Section 1007
     Section 1.6 Notwithstanding any provision in the Original Indenture to the contrary, all definitions set forth in Section 101 of the Original Indenture that relate to defined terms used solely in covenants or sections deleted hereby shall be deleted in their entirety, and all references to sections of the Original Indenture that are used exclusively in the text of the Original Indenture that are being otherwise eliminated by this Supplemental Indenture shall be deleted in their entirety.
The Officers' Certificate is hereby amended with respect to the Notes as follows:
     Section 2.1 Section 10 of the Officers' Certificate is hereby eliminated in its entirety and replaced with the words: ", INTENTIONALLY OMITTED."
Section 10
     Section 2.2 Section 11 of the Officers' Certificate is hereby eliminated in its entirety and replaced with the words: ", INTENTIONALLY OMITTED."
Section 11
     Section 2.3 Section 12 of the Officers' Certificate is hereby eliminated in its entirety and replaced with the words: ", INTENTIONALLY OMITTED."
Section 12
 
     Section 2.4 Section 13 of the Officers' Certificate is hereby eliminated in its entirety and replaced with the words: ", INTENTIONALLY OMITTED."
Section 13
     Section 2.5 Notwithstanding any provision in the Officers' Certificate to the contrary, all definitions set forth in the Officers' Certificate that relate to defined terms used solely in covenants or sections deleted hereby shall be deleted in their entirety and all references to sections of the Officers' Certificate that are used exclusively in the text of the Officers' Certificate that are being otherwise eliminated by this Supplemental Indenture shall be deleted in their entirety.
     Section 3.1 . For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture, except as otherwise defined or unless the context otherwise requires, terms used in capitalized form in this Supplemental Indenture and defined in the Indenture have the meanings specified in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
     Section 3.2 . Except as amended hereby, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms shall remain in full force and effect. This Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every Holder of Notes heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound hereby and all terms and conditions of both shall be read together as though they constitute a single instrument, except that in the case of conflict the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall control.
Indenture
     Section 3.3 . THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
     Section 3.4 . All agreements of the Company in this Supplemental Indenture shall bind its successors and assigns. All agreements of the Trustee in this Supplemental Indenture shall bind its successors.
Successors and Assigns
     Section 3.5 . All parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together shall represent the same agreement. It is the express intent of the parties to be bound by the exchange of signatures on this Supplemental Indenture via telecopy or other form of electronic transmission.
Duplicate Originals
     Section 3.6 . In case any one or more of the provisions in this Supplemental Indenture shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby, it being intended that all of the provisions hereof shall be enforceable to the full extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
     Section 3.7 . The Original Indenture and Officers' Certificate, as amended with respect to the Notes by this Supplemental Indenture, are ratified and confirmed and all terms thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This Supplemental Indenture shall not be deemed to modify any provisions of the Original Indenture or the Officers' Certificate with respect to any Security other than the Notes.
Effectiveness
     The Proposed Amendments effected by this Supplemental Indenture shall take effect on the date hereof, provided that each of the parties hereto shall have executed and delivered this Supplemental Indenture; provided, however, that the Proposed Amendments shall be operative only upon, and simultaneously with, and shall have no force and effect prior to, the Company's notification to the Trustee and the Depositary of its acceptance for purchase of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding in accordance with the terms of the Tender Offer.
     Section 3.8 This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
     Section 3.9 In the event there is any conflict or inconsistency between the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall control.
Supplemental Indenture Controls.
     Section 3.10 . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction thereof.
Effect of Headings
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 99.1
Newfield Exploration Announces Receipt of Requisite Consents with Respect to Its Tender Offer and Consent Solicitation for its 7/% Senior Notes due 2011
5
8
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today announced that it has accepted for purchase and payment approximately $143 million of the $175 million aggregate principal amount of its 7/% Senior Notes due 2011 (the "2011 Notes"), representing approximately 82% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2011 Notes, that were validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) prior to the expiration of the tender offer at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on February 18, 2010, pursuant to its previously announced tender offer and consent solicitation, which commenced on January 20, 2010. The amount tendered and accepted for purchase and payment constitutes a majority in aggregate principal amount of the 2011 Notes, and thus amendments to the indenture governing the 2011 Notes have been approved. The supplemental indenture effecting the proposed amendments, as described in the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement dated January 20, 2010 has been executed and has become effective.
Houston
 (February 19, 2010)  Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX)
5
8
     Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
For information, contact: Investor Relations: Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081 Media Relations: Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650 Email:
info@newfield.com


