FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20110207150218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 7, 2011, Newfield Exploration Company (Newfield) issued a press release announcing its year-end 2010 reserves.  A copy of that press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including the exhibit attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, in Item 2.02 of this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
In a press release issued on February 7, 2011, Newfield announced its 2011 capital investment program and production growth forecast.  A copy of that press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
The information, including the exhibit attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, in Item 7.01 of this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDATE RELEASE
 
today announced that its proved oil reserves at year-end 2010 totaled more than 200 MMBbls, a 20% increase over year-end 2009 proved oil reserves. The significant rise in the quantity of proved oil reserves contributed to more than an 80% increase in the present value of Newfields proved reserves, discounted at 10%, (PV-10 Value), which totaled $6.8 billion at year-end 2010.  Seefound at the end of this release.
Houston  (February 7, 2011) --
Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX)
Explanation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Year-end 2010 Reserve Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
Due to higher margins in oil over natural gas investments, Newfield has shifted significant capital toward oil projects within its portfolio. The Companys year-end reserve report reflects this business strategy. The significant increase in PV-10 at year-end 2010 was primarily related to: a) increased commodity prices; b) improved margins through increased activity in oil projects; c) the reclassification of proved natural gas reserves to probable reserves; and d) an increased percentage of proved oil reserves at year-end 2010.
As a result of the shift towards oil investments, Newfield reclassified approximately 315 Bcfe of proved reserves (nearly all natural gas), primarily in the Mid-Continent, to probable reserves because the deferral of development activity placed them beyond the five-year development horizon.
 
 
 
The significant growth in oil reserves during 2010 was primarily attributed to the Companys Rocky Mountain business unit where total proved reserves grew nearly 30% (Monument Butte and Williston Basin increased 22% and 157%, respectively), compared to year-end 2009. 
2010 Reserves and Capital Expenditures:
 
Newfield invested approximately $2.0 billion in 2010, including approximately $314 million on acquisitions. Tables depicting oil and gas reserves as well as capital expenditures are included below:
 
Proved Oil and Gas Reserves:
 
* Prices used for year-end 2010 reserve calculations: $4.39 per MMBtu and $79.42 per barrel, NYMEX adjusted for market differentials.
Capital Expenditures:
 
*Total costs incurred include $138 million of capitalized interest and overhead and $13 million of asset retirement obligations.
 
Background Information  Five-year Development Cut-off
 
Beginning with the year-end 2009, SEC guidelines limit proved undeveloped reserves to those expected to be developed within five years. In long-lived resource plays with a lengthy inventory of drilling locations, such as our Woodford Shale and Monument Butte plays, this time limit may have a material impact on the total reserves that could otherwise be recognized as proved. Accordingly, a total of approximately 1.3 Tcfe, or 54%, of Newfields probable reserves would meet the definition of proved undeveloped reserves except for the fact that their planned development is beyond the five-year (2011-2015) development horizon.
 
2
 
 
Explanation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
 
 This term is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations and differs from the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows (Standardized Measure) in that PV-10 Value is a pre-tax number, while the Standardized Measure includes the effect of estimated future income taxes. Newfield believes that pre-tax PV10% Value is an important measure that can be used to evaluate the relative significance of its oil and natural gas properties and that pre-tax PV10% Value is widely used by security analysts and investors when evaluating oil and natural gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be pa id, the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies. The reconciliation of Newfield's Pre-tax PV10% Value to its Standardized Measure will be provided in a future release as the information necessary to compute the Standardized Measure is not yet available.
PV-10
Value
 
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas, Appalachia and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
**This release contains forward-looking information. All information other than historical facts included in this release, such as information regarding estimated or anticipated drilling plans and planned capital expenditures, is forward-looking information. Although Newfield believes that these expectations are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of refining capacity for the crude oil Newfield produces from its Monument Butte field in Utah, the availability and c ost of capital resources, labor conditions and severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes). In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks. Other factors that could impact forward-looking statements are described in "Risk Factors" in Newfield's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and other subsequent public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which can be found at www.sec.gov. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this press release could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Unless legally required, Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
For information, contact:
Investor Relations:                         Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
                                                          
Danny Aguirre (281) 668-2657
Media Relations:                             Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email:                                                 
info@newfield.com
 
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.2
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today announced its 2011 capital investment program and expectations for production growth. In addition, Newfield disclosed initial drilling results from a new oil resource play, located in the Arkoma Basins Woodford Shale play in Oklahoma.
Houston  (February 7, 2011) -- Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX)
Newfield plans to invest approximately $1.7 billion in 2011. The planned budget excludes capitalized interest and overhead of approximately $170 million. This budget approximates the Companys estimate of 2011 cash flow from operations. Approximately two-thirds of the 2011 budget will be allocated to oil projects and substantially all of the remainder is planned for liquids rich gas plays.
For 2011, Newfield expects that its production will be 312  323 Bcfe, up 8 12% over 2010. Domestic oil production is expected to increase about 50% in 2011. Natural gas production is expected to remain flat in 2011, despite a significant reduction in natural gas investments.
said Lee K. Boothby, Chairman, President and CEO.
We are committed to living within our means,
Since the beginning of 2009, we have funded our capital expenditures within cash flow, including a large portion of our acquisitions along the way. We have proved the merits of a diversified asset portfolio and are making improved capital allocation decisions throughout the Company. With our continuing view that natural gas prices will remain challenged in 2011, we are directing our investments to oil plays that deliver premium returns.
                 Approximately 70% of the Companys expected 2011 gas production is hedged, with 45% hedged at a weighted-average fixed price of $6.26 per MMbtu and 25% hedged using 3-way collars with weighted-average prices per MMbtu of $4.50 x $5.95 x $7.71.  Approximately 70% of the Companys expected 2011 domestic oil production is hedged, with 28% hedged at a weighted-average fixed price of $81.51 per barrel and 42% hedged using 3-way collars with weighted-average prices per barrel of $61.61 x $77.58 x $107.76. Complete details on Newfields hedge position can be found on the Companys website in the @NFX publication.
The Oily Woodford, Arkoma Basin  Oklahoma
Newfield also disclosed a new resource play located on a significant portion of the Companys Woodford Shale acreage in the Arkoma Basin of southeast Oklahoma. Newfield believes the play is prospective on approximately 15% of its 172,000 net acres.
To date, Newfield has drilled six wells in this new play. Peak gross production (24-hour) from five of the six wells averaged 1,410 BOEPD. Approximately 35% of the hydrocarbon stream is oil (API gravity of 41 degrees), with the remainder 1,300 Btu gas.
 
 
 
Newfield has more than 30 days of production on four of the wells completed to date. Initial 30-day gross production from these wells averaged approximately 950 BOEPD.  The four wells have continued to show strong production with 60-day and 90-day gross averages of approximately 840 BOEPD and 760 BOEPD, respectively. One of the six wells (excluded from the above averages) has an insufficient completion and produced approximately 275 BOEPD over its first 30 days. The wells have an average lateral length of approximately 8,500 and were drilled and completed for less than $8.5 million gross. Newfield has substantially a 100% working interest in these wells.
Boothby said, Our success in the oily Woodford is another great example of the depth of our portfolio and our commitment to focus on oil and liquids-rich assets. We have been assessing this play throughout 2010 and our results create excitement for its potential on the western portion of our existing Woodford acreage, including about 11,000 net acres we leased in 2009 and 2010. Because our Woodford gas play is substantially held by production, our 2011 efforts can focus on our oily Woodford inventory.
Newfield plans to drill 12 to 18 additional wells in this play in 2011. To date, the Company has identified more than 100 drilling locations and the inventory continues to develop.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas, Appalachia and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
**This release contains forward-looking information. All information other than historical facts included in this release, such as information regarding estimated or anticipated drilling plans and planned capital expenditures, is forward-looking information. Although Newfield believes that these expectations are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of refining capacity for the crude oil Newfield produces from its Monument Butte field in Utah, the availability and c ost of capital resources, labor conditions and severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes). In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks. Other factors that could impact forward-looking statements are described in "Risk Factors" in Newfield's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and other subsequent public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which can be found at www.sec.gov. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this press release could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Unless legally required, Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
For information, contact:
Investor Relations:                               Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
 Danny Aguirre (281) 668-2657
Media Relations:                                   Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email:                                                       
info@newfield.com
 
2


