FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20110720194736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 20, 2011, Newfield Exploration Company (Newfield) issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2011 financial and operating results, third quarter 2011 earnings guidance and providing an operational update by region.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including the exhibit attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
In a separate press release issued on July 20, 2011, Newfield provided an update on its Uinta Basin development program. A copy of the publication is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
In addition, Newfield issued its @NFX publication on July 20, 2011, which includes thirdquarter and full-year 2011 estimates and tables detailing complete hedging positions as of July 19, 2011.  A copy of the publication is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.3.
 
The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including the exhibits attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and 99.3, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
  
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported its unaudited second quarter 2011 financial and operating results. Newfield will be hosting a conference call at 8:30 a.m. CT on July 21, 2011. To participate in the call, dial 719-325-4774 or listen through the investor relations section of our website at .
Houston  July 20, 2011 
Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX)
http://www.newfield.com
For the second quarter of 2011, Newfield recorded net income of $219 million, or $1.62 per diluted share (all per share amounts are on a diluted basis). Net income for the second quarter includes a net unrealized gain on commodity derivatives of $129 million ($81 million after-tax), or $0.60 per share. Without the effect of this item, net income for the second quarter of 2011 would have been $138 million, or $1.02 per share.
Revenues in the second quarter of 2011 were $621 million. Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $393 million. See found after the financial statements in this release.
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Newfields production in the second quarter of 2011 was 73 Bcfe. Natural gas production in the second quarter of 2011 was 47 Bcf, an average of 517 MMcf/d. Newfields oil liftings and liquids production in the second quarter of 2011 were 4.4 MMBbls, or an average of approximately 48,000 BOPD. Capital expenditures in the second quarter of 2011 were approximately $630 million, excluding the Companys $300 million acquisition in the Uinta Basin.
2011 Capital Investments, Asset Sales
 
Newfield reiterated its 2011 capital budget of $1.9 billion. The budget excludes capitalized interest and overhead and the May 2011 closing of the Companys acquisition in the Uinta Basin. Year-to-date, Newfield has divested approximately $130 million in non-strategic domestic assets. The Company continues to market and sell other certain non-strategic domestic assets with total proceeds during 2011 expected to range from $200  $300 million.
2011 Production Guidance
 
The sale of non-strategic assets year-to-date has reduced 2011 production by approximately 3 Bcfe. As previously disclosed, second quarter 2011 production was negatively impacted by approximately 0.2 MMBbls of deferred production due to repairs on the Abu field, located offshore Malaysia. Repairs have been completed and the field is on-line today. For the full year, Newfield expects that its production will exceed 312 Bcfe. The Companys original production guidance was 312  323 Bcfe, or an increase of at least 8% over 2010 volumes. The expectation of at least 8% growth does not include adjustments for any additional sales of non-strategic assets in the second half of 2011. A table on Newfields production guidance for 2011 is provided within this release.
 
 
1
 
 
Year-to-Date 2011 Operating Highlights:
 
Rocky Mountains
 
 In conjunction with the release of its second quarter earnings and operating results, the Company today provided a comprehensive update on its Uinta Basin drilling programs, including the disclosure of new oil plays available for development. Recent acquisitions have increased the Companys acreage position to approximately 250,000 net acres. Over the coming months, the Company expects to increase its operated rig count from a historic five-rig program to at least eight rigs in 2012. As a result, oil production growth from the region is expected to increase more than 25% in 2012. A copy of the recent release and other detailed information on the Uinta Basin can be obtained through Newfields website.
Uinta Basin
 
During the second quarter of 2011, Newfield completed nine new wells in the Williston Basin. The recent completions boosted net production to 8,000 BOEPD. Newfield continues to run five operated drilling rigs in the Williston Basin where the Company has approximately 150,000 net acres.
Williston Basin
 
 
Of the recent completions, eight of the nine wells were super extended laterals and had an average lateral length of more than 9,500. Average gross initial production (24-hour) from the nine wells completed in the second quarter was 2,100 BOEPD. The wells were drilled and completed for an average of approximately $9.8 million (gross).
 
Recent results include a Company-best  the Wiseness Federal 152-96-4-2H, which had gross initial production (24-hour average) of 5,200 BOEPD. The well has a 5,300 lateral and was drilled and completed for approximately $5.9 million (gross).
 
Significant flooding, poor road conditions and road closures in the Williston Basin impacted the timing of planned operations during the second quarter. The Company has an inventory of 10 wells that have been drilled and are in various stages of completion. Newfield expects to complete a total of 13 wells in the third quarter of 2011.
 
 To date, Newfield has drilled seven vertical wells and has completed and placed on production two horizontal wells. Fracture stimulation services are in the region today executing on a program to stimulate and test multiple geologic horizons in up to four of the vertical wells. All of the wells to date have encountered oil. Newfield has approximately 320,000 net acres in the play, located in Glacier County, Montana.
Southern Alberta Basin
 
 
Mid-Continent
 
 Newfield recently set a new record high for its Granite Wash production  190 MMcfe/d gross (135 MMcfe/d net). This is an increase over the 110 MMcfe/d net reported at the end of the first quarter of 2011. Since early 2009, Newfield has maintained a four-rig development drilling program in the Granite Wash, with its activities primarily located in Wheeler County, Texas.
Granite Wash
 
To date, the Company has completed 47 wells in the play with gross initial production averaging approximately 16 MMcfe/d (24-hour rate). The 2011 Granite Wash program is focused on the Marmaton DE and FG intervals. Year-to-date, wells in these liquids rich intervals have had average initial gross production of approximately 17 MMcfe/d.
 
Throughout 2011, the Companys drilling personnel have continued to deliver efficiency gains. During the second quarter, Newfield drilled and cased a best in class well in 24 days and is averaging approximately 28 days with recent wells. Completed well costs vary by lateral length (5,000  8,000) and range from $8  $13 million.
 
For 2011, the Company plans to drill more than 30 wells and grow production more than 25% over 2010.  Newfields average working interest in the Granite Wash play is approximately 75%.
 
 
2
 
 
Onshore Texas
 
 Newfield continues to explore and assess its 335,000 net acre position in the Maverick Basin. Oil field services in the region today remain tight. The Company expects that it can meet its contractual drilling obligations and hold its leases by running one to two rigs in the play through the remainder of 2011. By limiting activity to this level, capital can be redirected to the Uinta Basin where the Company is adding operated rigs. We continue to assess and increase our understanding of the Eagle Ford Shale, as well as other prospective formations including the Georgetown and Pearsall.
Eagle Ford Shale
Year-to-date, the Company has completed 13 wells in the Eagle Ford Shale, four wells in the Georgetown formation and two wells in the Pearsall Shale. Current gross production from the Maverick Basin is approximately 6,500 BOEPD. Newfields average working interest in the region is approximately 80%.
Recent drilling activity in the Eagle Ford has focused on the southern portion of the Companys acreage. An area up to 50,000 acres is now being developed along existing infrastructure. A pilot program is underway with recent wells being drilled from pad locations to help determine optimal well spacing. The wells have been drilled in as few as seven days and gross completed well costs have averaged approximately $6.6 million. Initial 24-hour gross production rates from recent wells have ranged from 400  1,400 BOEPD.
The Company recently commenced production from a Pearsall Shale horizontal completion at a pipeline-restricted rate of 4.4 MMcf/d and 6,800 psi of flowing tubing pressure (gross). Newfields working interest in the Pearsall play averages more than 70%. A recent Georgetown completion commenced production at more than 500 BOEPD (gross). The well was drilled and completed for approximately $1.3 million (gross). Newfields working interest in the Georgetown is averages more than 70%.
 
International Oil Developments
 
Second quarter 2011 net liftings from the Companys oil assets in Southeast Asia were 1.2 MMBbls, or an average of about 13,500 BOPD. The largest contributor to Newfields international oil production was Malaysia where net liftings during the period averaged approximately 11,200 BOPD. Second quarter 2011 production from Malaysia was negatively impacted by approximately 0.2 MMBbls due to infrastructure damage in the Abu field. Repairs were recently completed and the field has resumed production.
 
The Companys production from the East Belumut facility, located at PM 323, has attained recent highs and has averaged approximately 32,000 BOPD (gross) over the last month. On PM 329, the East Piatu development is expected to commence production at about 10,000 BOPD (gross) in late 2011. Newfield has a 70% interest in East Piatu.
 
Deepwater Gulf of Mexico
 
The Companys deepwater Gulf of Mexico production in the second quarter of 2011 was 9 Bcfe, or nearly 95 MMcfe/d. Pyrenees, located at Garden Banks 293, is expected to commence production in late 2011 at approximately 50 MMcf/d and 2,400 BCPD (gross). Outside operated developments, Axe and Dalmatian, are scheduled for first production in 2013.
 
 
3
 
TABLE: 2011 Production Guidance
*Asset sales were not included in the Companys original production guidance. Additional sales are anticipated in the second half of 2011.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas, Appalachia and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
**This release contains forward-looking information. All information other than historical facts included in this release, such as information regarding estimated or anticipated drilling plans and planned capital expenditures, is forward-looking information. Although Newfield believes that these expectations are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of refining capacity for the crude oil Newfield produces from its Monument Butte field in Utah, the availability and cost of capital resources, labor conditions and severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes). In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks. Other factors that could impact forward-looking statements are described in "Risk Factors" in Newfield's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and other subsequent public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which can be found at www.sec.gov. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this press release could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Unless legally required, Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
For information, contact:
Investor Relations:                                           Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
             Danny Aguirre (281) 668-2657
Media Relations:                                               Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email:                                                                   
info@newfield.com
 
4
 
2Q11 Actual Results
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
9
 
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Earnings Stated Without the Effect of Certain Items
Earnings stated without the effect of certain items is a non-GAAP financial measure. Earnings without the effect of these items are presented because they affect the comparability of operating results from period to period. In addition, earnings without the effect of these items are more comparable to earnings estimates provided by securities analysts.
A reconciliation of earnings for the second quarter of 2011 stated without the effect of certain items to net income is shown below:
 
The determination of Net unrealized gain on commodity derivatives for the second quarter of 2011 is as follows:
(1)
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Before Changes in Operating Assets and Liabilities
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities is presented because of its acceptance as an indicator of an oil and gas exploration and production companys ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur additional debt. This measure should not be considered as an alternative to net cash provided by operating activities as defined by generally accepted accounting principles.
A reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities to net cash provided by operating activities is shown below:
10

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today provided a comprehensive update on its Uinta Basin oil development programs. The update follows the May 2011 closing of two acreage acquisitions for approximately $300 million. Combined, the two transactions added approximately 70,000 net acres. Newfield today owns interest in approximately 250,000 net acres in the Uinta Basin where its average working interest is more than 70%. Multiple oil-productive geologic targets exist across the acreage and an active drilling campaign is underway.
Houston  July 20, 2011 --
Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX)
We have a proven growth history in the Uinta Basin, said Lee K. Boothby, Newfields Chairman, President and CEO. We have been growing our oil production and reserves in the region since our entry in 2004. Its clearly an oil play where we have a competitive advantage. We drill best in class wells, operate substantially all of our operations and have the personnel in place today to increase our activities cost effectively. We plan to aggressively develop our 6,000-plus well inventory of oil locations.
We are excited about the potential of our new Uteland Butte horizontal oil play, as well as the early successes in our Wasatch development. These two new oil plays provide some of the highest return projects in our drilling portfolio today. We will optimize our drilling programs and continue to grow our domestic oil production in 2012. Over the last two years, we have effectively demonstrated our ability to shift people and capital to projects that yield both growth and returns.
For 2012, Newfield plans to increase its operated rig count in the Uinta Basin from an historic five-rig count to at least eight rigs. The Company expects 2012 Uinta Basin daily production will grow at least 25% over 2011. The increased play options combined with fewer permitting constraints will allow Newfield to significantly increase its future growth in production and reserves from the basin.
The Companys net resource potential in the Uinta is estimated today at more than 700 million barrels of oil (MMBO) equivalent. In addition to the shallow Green River oil play, Newfield today provided results from recent drilling in deeper oil objectives prevalent throughout the Companys acreage. A table summarizing the plays and their net resource potential is included within this release.  Newfield also has made available maps and additional information through its @NFX publication, which can be found on the Companys website at .
www.newfield.com/pdf/uintaupdate.pdf
.
 
 
 
Uteland Butte
Recent transactions have added acreage north of the Companys traditional area of drilling -- Monument Butte. This area is referred to as the Central Basin. Uteland Butte is a new horizontal oil play being developed by Newfield from 6,000  9,000 (total vertical depth, or TVD) and is prevalent across Monument Butte and the Central Basin  or approximately 80% of Newfields total acreage in the basin. Portions of the play are geopressured and are expected to result in higher production rates and estimated ultimate recovery (EUR).
During the last year, Newfield has drilled six horizontal wells in the play. All of the wells to date have been drilled in the Monument Butte field. Initial gross 24-hour production rates from the Companys most recent wells have averaged 24-hour initial production (IP) of approximately 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day (BOEPD), or more than six times the IP rate of a traditional, vertical Green River well.
Based on an estimated inventory of at least 1,800 locations (160-acre spacing), Newfields net resource potential associated with the Uteland Butte formation is nearly 300 MMBO equivalent. The Company estimates that the wells will have an average gross EUR of approximately 300,000 BO equivalent and can be drilled and completed on average for approximately $2.8 million.
Newfield plans to complete an additional four horizontal wells in the Uteland Butte play in the second half of 2011. In 2012, the Company plans to drill more than 30 horizontal wells in the play.
Wasatch
The Wasatch formation is being developed throughout the Central Basin and is prospective at depths of 9,000  11,000 TVD. This is a southerly extension of the giant Altamont Bluebell field which has cumulative production to date of more than 400 MMBO equivalent. Over the last year, eight vertical wells have been drilled on Newfields acreage. Recent vertical wells have average gross 24-hour IP rates of more than 1,000 BOEPD.
Newfield estimates that the net resource potential for this play is more than 45 MMBO equivalent. To date, the Company has identified approximately 380 locations (320-acre spacing) with expected average EURs of more than 260,000 BO equivalent. Gross completed well costs vary by geologic depth and are estimated to range from $1.2  $3.3 million. The Company believes significant upside exists with future application of horizontal drilling and completion technology and through increased drilling density, which could double the expected net resource potential.
The Company expects to complete an additional 25 wells in the Wasatch in the second half of 2011. In 2012, Newfield expects to drill at least 50 wells in this play.
Green River
Newfield has been actively developing the shallow Green River formation since entering the Uinta Basin in 2004. Approximately 2,100 wells have been drilled to date on the Companys acreage. Newfields Green River oil play is economically productive across at least 165,000 net acres.
The Company estimates that more than 4,000 undrilled locations remain to ultimately develop the Monument Butte field on 20-acre spacing and the Central Basin acreage on 40-acre spacing. Substantially all of the Companys acreage at Monument Butte is located on acreage under Bureau of Land Management jurisdiction. At the current pace of drilling activity, this equates to more than a 10-year inventory. To date, Newfield has drilled more than 300 wells on the Central Basin acreage and, with additional data, believes the area could be prospective for future waterflood and 20-acre development. Current resource estimates do not include the potential for 20-acre spacing or secondary recovery in the Central Basin.
 
2
 
Newfield estimates that the Green River formation has net remaining resource potential of approximately 360 MMBO equivalent (includes developed and undeveloped waterflood potential only in Monument Butte). At year-end 2010, Newfield had proved reserves in the Green River formation of approximately 140 MMBO equivalent.
Gross production from the Uinta Basin has grown from approximately 7,000 BOPD to approximately 22,000 BOPD today. Green River wells are today being drilled and completed in four to five days for approximately $930,000 gross. The wells have a gross EUR of approximately 75,000 BO equivalent. Since the Companys 2004 entry into the Monument Butte field, expected recovery of oil in place has increased from about eight percent to 16% or more. Newfield expects to drill about 300 wells in the shallow Green River in 2011. For 2012, Newfield expects to drill 250  300 wells as additional resources are allocated toward the new Uteland Butte and Wasatch plays.
Infrastructure Investments
Newfield is investing approximately $75 million into field infrastructure projects in 2011  nearly matching the Companys cumulative investment in infrastructure from 2004-10. As development drilling has moved northeast and into deeper geologic horizons, the gas:oil ratio has increased. As a result, additional compression and enhanced gathering infrastructure is now required to accommodate the increased gas production. Once fully operational, the new facilities will allow for increased oil production from these areas. The Company expects to invest about $100 million into infrastructure projects in 2012 to accommodate long-term oil growth objectives from the Uinta Basin.
Uinta Basin Resource Potential
*Includes developed and undeveloped water flood potential
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas, Appalachia and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
 
3
 
**This release contains forward-looking information. All information other than historical facts included in this release, such as information regarding estimated or anticipated drilling plans and planned capital expenditures, is forward-looking information. Although Newfield believes that these expectations are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, industry conditions, the prices of goods and services, the availability of drilling rigs and other support services, the availability of refining capacity for the crude oil Newfield produces from its Monument Butte field in Utah, the availability and cost of capital resources, labor conditions and severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes). In addition, the drilling of oil and gas wells and the production of hydrocarbons are subject to governmental regulations and operating risks. Other factors that could impact forward-looking statements are described in "Risk Factors" in Newfield's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and other subsequent public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which can be found at www.sec.gov. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this press release could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Unless legally required, Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
For information, contact:
Investor Relations:                                           Steve Campbell (281) 847-6081
             Danny Aguirre (281) 668-2657
Media Relations:                                               Keith Schmidt (281) 674-2650
Email:                                                                   
info@newfield.com
4

Exhibit 99.3
@NFX is periodically published to keep shareholders aware of current operating activities at Newfield. It may include estimates of expected production volumes, costs and expenses, recent changes to hedging positions and commodity pricing.
July 20, 2011
Newfield today released financial and operational results for the second quarter of 2011. The earnings and operational release can be found on our website.
In conjunction with the release of its second quarter earnings and operating results, the Company today provided a comprehensive update on its Uinta Basin drilling programs, including the disclosure of new oil plays available for development. Recent acquisitions have increased the Companys acreage position to approximately 250,000 net acres. Over the coming months, the Company expects to increase its operated rig count from a historic five-rig program to at least eight rigs in 2012. As a result, oil production growth from the region is expected to increase more than 25% in 2012. A copy of the recent release and other detailed information on the Uinta Basin can be obtained through Newfields website.
This edition of @NFX includes:
THIRD QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2011 ESTIMATES
 
 
 
 
NATURAL GAS HEDGE POSITIONS
Please see the tables below for our complete hedging positions.
The following hedge positions for the third quarter of 2011 and beyond are as of July 19, 2011:
 
 
 
2
 
 
*These 3-way collar contracts are standard natural gas collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per MMMBtu as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of per MMMBtu. Below per MMMBtu, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average per MMMBtu higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
$4.26
$4.26
$1.30
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX gas prices.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
In the Rocky Mountains, we hedged basis associated with approximately of our natural gas production from July 2011 through December 2012 to lock in the differential at a weighted average of per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.  In total, this hedge and the 8,000 MMBtu per day we have sold on a fixed physical basis for the same period results in an average basis hedge of $0.92 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.
7 Bcf
$0.92
In the Mid-Continent, we hedged basis associated with approximately of our anticipated Stiles/Britt Ranch natural gas production from July 2011 through August 2011.  In total, this hedge and the 30,000 MMBtu per day we have sold on a fixed physical basis for the same period results in an average basis hedge of $0.52 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.  We have also hedged basis associated with approximately 23 Bcf of our natural gas production from this area for the period September 2011 through December 2012 at an average of $0.55 per MMBtu less than the Henry Hub Index.
1 Bcf
Approximately % of our natural gas production correlates to Houston Ship Channel, % to Columbia Gulf, % to Texas Gas Zone 1, % to Southern Natural Gas, 4% to Tetco ELA, % to Tenn 100, % to CenterPoint/East, % to Panhandle Eastern Pipeline, % to Waha, % to Colorado Interstate, and % to others.
14
16
16
3
1
6
20
2
6
12
CRUDE OIL HEDGE POSITIONS
 
 
 
4
 
 
*These 3-way collar contracts are standard crude oil collar contracts with respect to the periods, volumes and prices stated above. The contracts have floor and ceiling prices per Bbl as per the table above until the price drops below a weighted average price of per Bbl. Below per Bbl, these contracts effectively result in realized prices that are on average per Bbl higher than the cash price that otherwise would have been realized.
$82.12
$82.12
$18.50
The following table details the expected impact to pre-tax income from the settlement of our derivative contracts, outlined above, at various NYMEX oil prices.
 
 
5
 
We provide information regarding our outstanding hedging positions in our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and in our electronic publication -- @NFX.  This publication can be found on Newfields web page at . Through the web page, you may elect to receive @NFX through e-mail distribution.
http://www.newfield.com
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas, Appalachia and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
 
6


