FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20110809155602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On August 8, 2011, Newfield Exploration Company (the Company) filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a Certificate of Elimination amending the Companys Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the Companys Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value per share (the Series A Stock) and cause such shares to resume their status as undesignated preferred stock of the Company.  No shares of the Series A Stock were issued and outstanding at the time of the filing of the Certificate of Elimination. The Certificate of Elimination was effective upon filing. A copy of the Certificate of Elimination is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
  
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3
 
  
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, it is hereby certified that:
1.
 
The name of the corporation (hereinafter referred to as the corporation) is Newfield Exploration Company.
2.
 
The designation of the series of shares of preferred stock of the corporation to which this certificate relates is Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value per share (the Series A Stock).
3.
 
The voting powers, designations, preferences, and the relative, participating, optional, or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations, and restrictions of the said series of shares of preferred stock were provided for in a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of the corporation pursuant to authority expressly vested in it by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of the corporation.  A certificate setting forth the said resolution has been heretofore filed with the Secretary of State of the Delaware pursuant to the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
4.
 
The Board of Directors of the corporation has adopted the following resolutions:
, on February 17, 1999, the Company filed a Certificate of Designation for its Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock with the Secretary of State of Delaware (the ), which Series A Certificate authorized the issuance of 100,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the );
WHEREAS
Series A Certificate
Series A Stock
 
that the Board hereby acknowledges that no shares of Series A Stock remain outstanding and deems it in the best interest of the Company that no shares of the authorized Series A Stock will be issued subject to the Series A Certificate due to the specificity of their designated preferences and rights which were created by the Board to fit a specific need of the Company at the time of the designation of the Series A Stock;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED,
 
, that the Board hereby directs the Authorized Officers to file a Certificate of Elimination with the Secretary of State of Delaware to eliminate from the Companys Certificate of Incorporation all matters set forth in the Series A Certificate in accordance with Section 151(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, thus returning the shares of previously authorized Series A Stock to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock of the Company without designation as to a series; and
FURTHER RESOLVED
 
 
 
 
 
, that the Authorized Officers, or any one of them, be and they are hereby authorized and empowered to execute and file with the Secretary of State of Delaware and any other appropriate state and county offices, a Certificate of Elimination in accordance with Section 151(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the signature of any one of them being conclusive evidence of such authority.
FURTHER RESOLVED
5.
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the effective date of the filing of this certificate, the elimination from the certificate of designation with respect to the Series A Stock shall be effected, and all authorized shares of Series A Stock shall return to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock of the corporation, without designation as to a series.
, Newfield Exploration Company has caused this certificate to be signed by Terry W. Rathert, its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, on this 8th day of August, 2011.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 


