FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20110927172522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                        Regulation FD Disclosure.
Newfield Exploration Company issued a news release today announcing that it had priced $750 million of Senior Notes due 2022, which will carry an annual interest rate of 5%. A copy of the press release regarding this matter is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including the exhibit attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
2
 
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
3
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
today announced that it has priced its public offering of $750 million of 5% Senior Notes due 2022. The notes were issued at 99.956% of par to yield 5.75%. The Company expects to close the offering on September 30, 2011 and intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to repay a portion of the borrowings outstanding under its credit arrangements.
HOUSTON, September 27, 2011 -- Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX)
 
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering.
 
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, Newfield's Senior Notes due 2022 or any other securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities mentioned in this press release in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
The public offering is being made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The offering of senior notes is being made only by means of a prospectus and prospectus supplement. A copy of the prospectus supplement and related base prospectus may be obtained from the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the underwriters will provide copies upon request to:
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins of the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains, onshore Texas, Appalachia and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
** The statements set forth in this release contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including the consummation of the offering and the use of proceeds. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in this information are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors.
Other factors that could impact forward-looking statements are described in Risk Factors in Newfields 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the preliminary prospectus supplement and other subsequent public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which can be found at www.sec.gov. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this press release could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Unless legally required, Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
For information, contact
:


