FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20110511122717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 5, 2011, at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the 2011 Annual Meeting) of Newfield Exploration Company (the Company), upon recommendation of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board), the stockholders approved the Newfield Exploration Company 2011 Omnibus Stock Plan (the 2011 Plan). The terms and conditions of the 2011 Plan, including the material terms of the performance goals for performance awards under the 2011 Plan, are described on pages 59 through 74 of the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2011 on Form DEF 14A (the 2011 Proxy Statement), which description is incorporated by reference herein. The description of the 2011 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2011 Plan, which is attached as Appendix A to the 2011 Proxy Statement and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 5.07  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the 2011 Annual Meeting, Newfields stockholders: (1) elected 11 nominees for director; (2) approved the 2011 Plan; (3) approved the performance goals under the 2011 Plan; (4) ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Newfields independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2011; (5) approved, by non-binding vote, the executive compensation of Newfields named executive officers as disclosed in the 2011 Proxy Statement; and (6) recommended, by non-binding vote, the frequency on which the stockholders will provide an advisory vote regarding the compensation of Newfields named executive officers.
The final number of votes cast for, against or withheld, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, with respect to each matter, as applicable, including a separate tabulation with respect to each director nominee, are set forth below. On the advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation, the final number of votes cast for each of one year, two years and three years is also set forth below.
 
1. Election of Directors:
   
 
2. Approval of the Newfield Exploration Company 2011 Omnibus Stock Plan:
   
 
 
3. Approval of the performance goals under the Newfield Exploration Company 2011 Ominbus Stock Plan:
   
 
 
2
 
 
4.  
 
  
Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm:
 
5.  
   
Approval, by a non-binding advisory vote, of a resolution regarding the compensation of Newfields named executive officers:
 
6.
 
  
Recommendation, by a non-binding advisory vote, the frequency on which the stockholders will provide an advisory vote on the compensation of Newfields named executive officers:
 
Based on these results, Newfields Board of Directors has determined to hold the advisory vote on the compensation of Newfields named executive officers annually until the next stockholder vote on the frequency of such advisory votes.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4


