FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20120919120453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
  
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 18, 2012, Newfield Exploration Company announced the signing of an agreement to sell its remaining assets in the Gulf of Mexico to W&T Offshore, Inc. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including the exhibit attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
3
 
 
 
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
today announced signing an agreement to sell its remaining assets in the Gulf of Mexico to W&T Offshore, Inc. Including todays agreement and dispositions closed in late 2011 and early 2012, total asset sales culminating in the Companys exit from the Gulf of Mexico generated approximately $300 million.
 
The Woodlands, Texas
 
 
September 18, 2012
 
Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE: NFX)
This is another positive step along our path of better aligning our people and capital investments on our plays of the future, said Lee K. Boothby, Chairman, President and CEO. Our focus today is on driving strong oil and liquids growth and increasing cash flow from our core assets onshore U.S. and in Southeast Asia.
The most recent agreement includes the planned disposition of interests in the Companys remaining 12 fields. The effective date of the transaction is July 1, 2012 and it is expected to close in October 2012. Including the expected closing of this transaction, total year-to-date proceeds from non-strategic asset sales will be approximately $580 million.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent crude oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The Company relies on a proven growth strategy of growing reserves through an active drilling program and select acquisitions. Newfield's domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and onshore Texas. The Company has international operations in Malaysia and China.
 
**This release contains forward-looking statements. All statements, other than historical facts, included in this release that address activities, events or developments that the Company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes that these expectations are reasonable, these statements are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, many of which are beyond the control of the Company, and may cause actual results to differ materially from those implied or expressed by the forward-looking statements. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this press release could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. See "Risk Factors" in the Companys 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other subsequent public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which can be found at www.sec.gov. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Unless legally required, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
For additional information, please contact Newfields Investor Relations department.
Phone: 281-210-5201
Email: info@newfield.com


