FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20121114103306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On November 9, 2012, the Compensation & Management Development Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of Newfield Exploration Company (Company) amended the Newfield Exploration Company Deferred Compensation Plan (the Plan) and its related Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan Trust Agreement (the Trust) to (1) eliminate the ability of the Trustee to use Trust assets to buy Company common stock through open market purchase transactions; (2) provide that cash deferrals by participants may be converted to phantom units only upon certain specified dates; and (3) provide that the Committee or its delegate has the sole discretion to provide whether distributions from the portion of the Trust invested in common stock of the Company shall be in cash and/or Company common stock. A copy of Amendment No. 1 to the Plan and Trust is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
  
  
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  
 
3
 
 
 
4

Exhibit 10.1
This Amendment No. 1 (this "") to the Newfield Exploration Company Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of November 6, 2008 (the "") and its related Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan Trust Agreement (the "") is made by the Compensation & Management Development Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors of Newfield Exploration Company (the ""), as follows:
Amendment
Deferred Plan
Trust
Committee
Company
 
the Company sponsors the Deferred Plan for the benefit of its eligible employees;
WHEREAS,
 
the Committee desires to amend the Deferred Plan and Trust to eliminate the ability of the Trustee to use Trust assets to buy Company common stock through open market purchase transactions;
WHEREAS,
 
the Committee desires to amend the Deferred Plan and Trust to provide that cash deferrals by participants may be converted to phantom units only upon certain specified dates; and
WHEREAS,
 
the Committee desires to amend the Deferred Plan to provide that the Committee or its delegate has the sole discretion to provide whether distributions from the portion of the Trust invested in common stock of the Company (the "") shall be in cash and/or Company common stock.
WHEREAS,
Stock Account
 
, pursuant to the Deferred Plan and the Trust, the Committee hereby amends the Deferred Plan and Trust as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
1.      .  The first paragraph of Section 3.6(b) of the Deferred Plan shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Members Stock Account
 
(b)           .  In lieu of having amounts credited with the phantom investment funds in accordance with Section 3.6(a), a Member may elect to have all or part of the Members deferred amounts (in whole percentage increments) credited in the form of hypothetical Company Stock to his Stock Account, with such crediting to occur only upon the Conversion Date (defined as that date on or about the third Wednesday of January of each year).  From the beginning date of the deferral for which a Member makes such an election and until the next Conversion Date following the end of the calendar year for which the deferral is effectuated, the subject deferral shall be invested in a default investment fund chosen by the Plan Committee or its delegate in accordance with Section 3.6(a).  Any election under this Section 3.6(b) must be made pursuant to procedures established by the Plan Committee.  A Member may change such an election in accordance with the Plan Committees procedures.  In addition, any amounts credited to a Members Account in accordance with Section 3.6(a) may be transferred for hypothetical investment tracking purposes to the Members Stock Account, but such transfer can only be effectuated on the Conversion Date.  In all events, once amounts are credited to a members Stock Account, no subsequent election may cause amounts credited to a Members Stock Account to be transferred for hypothetical investment tracking purposes to any other phantom investment fund.  All distributions of amounts credited to a Members Stock Account may only be distributed in whole shares of Company Stock (with cash for fractional shares) or cash, or a combination thereof, in the sole discretion of the Plan Committee.  On the Conversion Date and any other applicable date, the number of shares of hypothetical Company Stock (in whole shares and fractional shares, as determined by the Plan Committee) shall be determined by dividing the portion of the Members deferred amounts to be credited in the Stock Account by the price for shares of Company Stock, determined by the Plan Committee, as of the day such deferred amounts are credited to the Members Stock Account and any other applicable date.
Members Stock Account
 
1
 
 
2.     .  The flush sentence immediately following Section 5.4(b) shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Form of Benefit Payment
 
All payments shall be made in cash; provided, however, to the extent distributable amounts are credited to the Members Stock Account, such payments shall be made in shares of Company Stock (with any fractional share interest therein paid in cash to the extent of the then fair market value thereof), cash, or any combination thereof, in the sole discretion of the Plan Committee.
 
3.     .  The prior amendment to Section 5(a) of the Trust that became effective November 8, 2008, shall be stricken in its entirety and replaced with the original language of Section 5(a), such being:
Amendment of the Trust
 
(a)           In no event may the Trustee follow a direction to invest in securities (including stock or rights to acquire stock) or obligations issued by the Company, other than a de minimis amount held in common investment vehicles in which the Trustee invests.  All rights associated with assets of the Trust shall be exercised by the Trustee (or the person designated by the Trustee) as directed, and shall in no event be exercisable by or rest with Plan participants.
 
4.       .  Except as otherwise set forth in this Amendment No. 1, each the Deferred Plan and the Trust shall remain in full force and effect.
Effect on Deferred Plan and Trust
 
5.    .  This Amendment shall become effective as of November 9, 2012.
Effective Date of this Amendment
 
2
 
 
, the Committee, by its duly authorized member, has executed this Amendment No. 1 on this 9th day of November, 2012.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
COMPENSATION & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE:
By:           
/s/ John R. Kemp, III
 
Its:                                                                 
Committee Chair
 
 
3


