FILE:NFX/NFX-8K-20120703171206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 3, 2012, Newfield Exploration Company (the "Company") announced that it had accepted for purchase and payment approximately $413 million of the $550 million aggregate principal amount of its 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes") representing approximately 75% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Notes, that were validly tendered and not validly withdrawn prior to the consent date of the tender offer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on July 2, 2012, pursuant to its previously announced tender offer and consent solicitation, which commenced on June 19, 2012.
On July 3, 2012, the Company entered into the sixth supplemental indenture with U.S. Bank National Association (as successor to Wachovia Bank, National Association, formerly First Union Bank) as trustee (the "Sixth Supplemental Indenture") to the Subordinated Indenture dated as of December 10, 2001, as supplemented with respect to the 2016 Notes by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 3, 2006 (collectively, the "Indenture") following the receipt of the requisite consents of the holders of the 2016 Notes. The Sixth Supplemental Indenture became operative upon notification to the trustee of the purchase by the Company of a majority of the outstanding 2016 Notes pursuant to its tender offer and consent solicitation. The amendments to the Indenture contained in the Sixth Supplemental Indenture include the elimination of substantially all the restrictive covenants, certain events of default and certain other provisions with respect to the 2016 Notes. A copy of the Sixth Supplemental Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. The description of the Sixth Supplemental Indenture contained herein is qualified in its entirety by the full text of such exhibit.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
On July 3, 2012, the Company issued a press release, which announced the receipt of the requisite consents with respect to its tender offer and consent solicitation for its 2016 Notes. A copy of the press release regarding this matter is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
, dated as of July 3, 2012 (this ""), supplements and amends the Subordinated Indenture dated as of December 10, 2001 (the "") as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 3, 2006 to the Original Indenture (the "" and together with the Original Indenture, the ""), each between , a Delaware corporation, as issuer (the ""), and (as successor trustee to Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly First Union National Bank)), a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
THIS SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Sixth Supplemental Indenture
Original Indenture
Third Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
NEWFIELD EXPLORATION COMPANY
Company
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company and the predecessor to the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered the Original Indenture and, in accordance with Section 301 of the Original Indenture, executed and delivered the Third Supplemental Indenture establishing the terms of the Company's senior subordinated debt securities designated as the 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 (the "");
Notes
WHEREAS, the Company issued $550,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Notes on April 3, 2006 and, as of June 19, 2012, all such Notes were outstanding;
WHEREAS, Section 902 of the Original Indenture provides that, subject to the terms thereof, the Company and the Trustee may, with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, enter into a supplemental indenture for the purpose of amending the Indenture as it relates to the Notes;
WHEREAS, the Company has made a tender offer (the "") to each registered Holder of Notes to purchase, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, dated June 19, 2012, as amended, modified or supplemented (the ""), any and all of each such Holder's outstanding Notes for an amount in cash specified in the Statement (the "");
Tender Offer
Statement
Tender Offer Consideration
WHEREAS, in conjunction with the Tender Offer, the Company has also solicited consents from the Holders for certain proposed amendments (the "") to the Indenture as it relates to the Notes, which Proposed Amendments are contained in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture;
Proposed Amendments
WHEREAS, (1) the Company has received the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes for the Proposed Amendments, all as certified by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, (2) the Company has delivered to the Trustee simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture an Opinion of Counsel relating to this Sixth Supplemental Indenture as contemplated by Section 102 of the Original Indenture and (3) the Company has satisfied all other conditions required under the Indenture to enable the Company and the Trustee to enter into this Sixth Supplemental Indenture.
in consideration of the above premises, each party hereby agrees, for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes, as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
The Original Indenture is hereby amended solely with respect to the Notes as follows:
Section 1.1 . Section 704 of the Original Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "Section 704. INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Reports of the Company
Section 1.2 . Section 801 of the Original Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "Section 801. INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Merger and Consolidation
Section 1.3 . Section 802 of the Original Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "Section 802. INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Successor Substituted
Section 1.4 . Section 1005 of the Original Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "Section 1005. INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Existence
Section 1.5 . Section 1006 of the Original Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "Section 1006. INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Maintenance of Properties
Section 1.6 . Section 1007 of the Original Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "Section 1007. INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Payment of Taxes and Other Claims
Section 1.7 . Sections 1009, 1010, 1011, 1012, 1013, 1014, 1015, 1016, 1017 and 1018 of the Original Indenture, as added by Section 6(c) of the Third Supplemental Indenture and deleted in their entirety as set forth in hereof, shall be of no further force and effect with respect to the Notes following the effectiveness of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture.
Additional Covenants
Section 2.4
Section 1.8 . The following amendments are made to Article Eleven of the Original Indenture:
Redemption
(a) Section 1102 of the Original Indenture is hereby amended by deleting the words "60 days prior to the Redemption Date" and inserting in lieu thereof the words "five days prior to the Redemption Date", and all other provisions of Section 1102 as set forth in the Original Indenture shall remain unmodified and shall continue be of full force and effect with respect to the Notes as set forth in the Original Indenture;
(b) Section 1104 of the Original Indenture is hereby amended by deleting the words "not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date" from the first sentence of Section 1104 and inserting in lieu thereof the words "not less than three nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date", and all other provisions of Section 1104 as set forth in the Original Indenture shall remain unmodified and shall continue be of full force and effect with respect to the Notes as set forth in the Original Indenture; and
 
(c) Section 1108, as added by Section 7(c) of the Third Supplemental Indenture, shall be amended as set forth in hereof.
Section 2.5
Section 1.9 Notwithstanding any provision in the Original Indenture to the contrary, (a) all definitions set forth in Section 101 of the Original Indenture that relate to defined terms used solely in the sections and/or provisions deleted by this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall be deleted in their entirety, and (b) all references to sections of the Original Indenture that are used exclusively in the text of the Original Indenture that are otherwise being deleted by this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall be deleted in their entirety.
The Third Supplemental Indenture is hereby amended solely with respect to the Notes as follows:
Section 2.1 . The following amendments are made to Section 4(a) of the Third Supplemental Indenture:
Events of Default
(a) The words "; or" at the end of Section 4(a)(2) are hereby deleted and replaced with "."
(b) Section 4(a)(3) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(3) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
(c) Section 4(a)(4) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(4) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
(d) Section 4(a)(5) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(5) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
(e) Section 4(a)(6) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(6) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
(f) Section 4(a)(7) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(7) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
(g) Section 4(a)(8) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(8) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
(h) Section 4(a)(9) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(9) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Section 2.2 . Section 5(a) of the Third Supplemental Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(a) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Merger and Consolidation
Section 2.3 . Section 6(b) of the Third Supplemental Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(b) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Corporate Existence
 
Section 2.4 . Section 6(c) of the Third Supplemental Indenture, which added covenants with respect to the Notes to the Original Indenture as Sections 1009, 1010, 1011, 1012, 1013, 1014, 1015, 1016, 1017 and 1018 of the Original Indenture, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the words "(c) INTENTIONALLY OMITTED".
Covenants
Section 2.5 . Section 7(c) of the Third Supplemental Indenture, which added Section 1108 with respect to the Notes to the Original Indenture, is hereby amended as follows:
Redemption Notice
(a) in the second sentence of Section 1108(a), deleting the words "upon no less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice" and inserting in lieu thereof the words "upon no less than three nor more than 60 days' prior notice"; and
(b) in the second sentence of Section 1108(b), deleting the words "upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice" and inserting in lieu thereof the words "upon not less than three nor more than 60 days' prior notice",
and all other provisions of Section 1108, as added by Section 7(c) of the Third Supplemental Indenture, shall remain unmodified and shall continue be of full force and effect with respect to the Notes as set forth in the Third Supplemental Indenture.
Section 2.6 . Any references in the Form of Note appended to the Third Supplemental Indenture or in the global note certificate(s) representing the Notes executed in connection with the original issuance of the Notes or otherwise pursuant to the Indenture shall be deemed to be amended to conform to the amendments set forth in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture.
Global Notes
Section 2.7 Notwithstanding any provision in the Third Supplemental Indenture to the contrary, (a) all definitions set forth in Section 2 of the Third Supplemental Indenture that relate to defined terms used solely in the sections and/or provisions deleted by this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall be deleted in their entirety, and (b) all references to sections of the Third Supplemental Indenture that are used exclusively in the text of the Third Supplemental Indenture that are otherwise being deleted by this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall be deleted in their entirety.
Section 3.1 . For all purposes of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, except as otherwise defined or unless the context otherwise requires, capitalized terms used herein and defined in the Indenture have the meanings specified in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
Section 3.2 . Except as amended hereby, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms shall remain in full force and effect with respect to the Notes. This Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every Holder of Notes heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound hereby and all terms and conditions of both shall be read together as though they constitute a single instrument, except that in the case of conflict the provisions of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall control.
Indenture
 
Section 3.3 . THIS SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
Section 3.4 . All agreements of the Company in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall bind its successors and assigns. All agreements of the Trustee in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall bind its successors.
Successors and Assigns
Section 3.5 . All parties may sign any number of copies of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together shall represent the same agreement. It is the express intent of the parties to be bound by the exchange of signatures on this Sixth Supplemental Indenture via facsimile or other form of electronic transmission.
Duplicate Originals
Section 3.6 . In case any one or more of the provisions in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby, it being intended that all of the provisions hereof shall be enforceable to the full extent permitted by law.
Severability
Section 3.7 . The Original Indenture and Third Supplemental Indenture, each as amended with respect to the Notes by this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, are ratified and confirmed and all terms thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall not be deemed to modify any provisions of the Original Indenture or Third Supplemental Indenture with respect to any Security other than the Notes.
Effectiveness
The Proposed Amendments effected by this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall take effect on the date hereof, upon execution and delivery of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture by each of the parties hereto; provided, however, that the Proposed Amendments shall be operative only upon, and simultaneously with, and shall have no force and effect prior to, the Company's notification to the Trustee and the Depositary of its acceptance for purchase of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding in accordance with the terms of the Tender Offer.
Section 3.8 This Sixth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
Section 3.9 In the event there is any conflict or inconsistency between the Indenture and this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall control.
Sixth Supplemental Indenture Controls.
Section 3.10 . The section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction thereof.
Effect of Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Sixth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Newfield Exploration Announces Receipt of Requisite Consents, Initial Settlement of Tender Offer and Issuance of Notice of Redemption
(the "Company") today announced the early tender results for its previously announced cash tender offer (the "Tender Offer") and consent solicitation (the "Consent Solicitation" and, together with the Tender Offer, the "Offer") for any and all of its 6
THE WOODLANDS, TEXAS, July 3, 2012  Newfield Exploration Company (NYSE:NFX)
 5
/
8
% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 (the "Notes"). As of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on July 2, 2012 (the "Consent Date"), holders of $412,851,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Notes, representing approximately 75.06% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Notes, had validly tendered Notes and delivered consents in connection with the Offer. Because the Consent Date has passed, tenders may no longer be withdrawn and consents may no longer be revoked. The Company has accepted for purchase all Notes tendered at or prior to the Consent Date, with payment for accepted Notes occurring today.
Accordingly, the Company has received the requisite consents to amend the indenture governing the Notes. The Company and U.S. Bank National Association, the trustee under the indenture governing the Notes, have entered into a supplemental indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture") containing the proposed amendments to the indenture governing the Notes, which amendments have become effective and will become operative upon purchase and settlement of the Notes which were tendered at or prior to the Consent Date. The Supplemental Indenture eliminates most of the covenants and certain default provisions applicable to the Notes and shortens the minimum notice period for redemption of the Notes.
The Offer is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement dated June 19, 2012 (the "Statement"). The Offer will expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on the evening of July 17, 2012, unless extended (such date and time, as may be extended, the "Expiration Date"). Holders who validly tender their Notes after the Consent Date and at or prior to the Expiration Date will be entitled to receive tender offer consideration equal to $1,000.83 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes up to, but not including, the payment date for such Notes accepted for purchase. Holders of Notes tendered after the Consent Date will not receive a consent payment.
Additionally, on July 3, 2012, the Company notified U.S. Bank National Association, the trustee for the Notes, of its election to redeem all Notes not validly tendered at or prior to the Expiration Date. Holders of the Notes called for redemption will receive a cash payment of $1,022.08 for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes called for redemption plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the redemption date, which will be July 18, 2012.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is acting as the sole Dealer Manager and Solicitation Agent for the Offer. Persons with questions regarding the Offer should contact Wells Fargo Securities, LLC at (866) 309-6316 (toll free) or (704) 715-8341 (collect). Requests for copies of the Statement or other tender offer materials may be directed to D.F. King & Co., Inc., the Information Agent, at (212) 269-5550 (collect, for banks and brokers) or (800) 488-8075 (toll free, for all others).
This announcement does not constitute an offer to purchase the Notes or a solicitation of consents to amend the related indenture. The Offer is made solely pursuant to the Statement and related transmittal documents. The Offer is not being made to holders of Notes in any jurisdiction in which the making or acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the securities, blue sky or other laws of such jurisdiction.
Newfield Exploration Company is an independent energy company engaged in the exploration, development and production of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. The Company's principal domestic areas of operation include the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and onshore Texas. Internationally, the Company focuses on offshore oil developments in Malaysia and China.
**
The statements set forth in this announcement contain certain "forward-looking statements," including regarding settlement of the Offer, the operation of the amendments to the Supplemental Indenture and the redemption of the Notes. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in this information are reasonable, this information is based upon assumptions and actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors. Factors that could impact forward-looking statements are described in "Risk Factors" in the Company's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 19, 2012 and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which can be found at www.sec.gov. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this announcement could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Unless legally required, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
:
For information, contact


