FILE:HES/HES-8K-20120803155022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 1, 2012, the Board of Directors of Hess Corporation (the Company) elected Samuel A. Nunn to serve as a director of the Company. Mr. Nunns initial term as a director will continue until the Companys 2013 annual meeting of shareholders when he will be subject to election by the Companys shareholders. The committees of the Board to which Mr. Nunn will be named have not been determined at this time.
The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Nunn is independent in accordance with the rules and standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Nunn does not have a material interest in any transaction that is required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Nunn and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director.
Mr. Nunns compensation for service as director will be consistent with the compensation paid to other non-employee directors of the Company as described in the Companys 2012 proxy statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2012. A copy of the news release announcing the election of Mr. Nunn to the Board is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  August 3, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Sam Nunn Elected to Hess Corporation Board of Directors
 
 
NEW YORK, August 2, 2012 -- Hess Corporation (NYSE: HES) announced today the election of former U.S. Senator Sam Nunn to its Board of Directors.
 
 
Senator Nunn served with distinction as a United States Senator from Georgia for 24 years (1972-1996). He was chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and also served on the Intelligence and Small Business Committees. He is retired from the law firm of King & Spalding.
 
 
Senator Nunn currently is co-chairman and chief executive officer of the Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), a charitable organization working to reduce the global threats from nuclear, biological and chemical weapons. In addition, he has continued his service in the public policy arena as a distinguished professor in the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs at Georgia Tech and as chairman of the board of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. He is also a board member of The Coca-Cola Company and General Electric Company.
 
 
Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, as well as in refining and in marketing refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity.  More information on Hess Corporation is available at.
 
http://www.hess.com
 


