FILE:HES/HES-8K-20120118185741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.                      Other Events.
 
On January 18, 2012, Hess Corporation (the Registrant) issued a news release reporting a $525 million after-tax charge ($875 million pre-tax charge) against its fourth quarter 2011 earnings resulting from the announced intention to shutdown the HOVENSA L.L.C. refinery in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands (Hovensa), a joint venture between the Registrant and Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. 
Following the shutdown, the facility will operate as an oil storage terminal.
 
The closure was decided in light of financial losses at the refinery, which totaled $1.3 billion in the past three years and were projected to continue, primarily caused by weakness in demand for refined petroleum products due to the global economic slowdown and the addition of new refining capacity in emerging markets.  In addition, the low price of natural gas in the United States has put Hovensa, an oil-fueled refinery, at a competitive disadvantage.
 
A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
The financial effect of the closure of Hovensa is disclosed on an after-tax basis. Management reviews earnings on an after-tax basis. Management believes that an after-tax amount is a preferable method of assessing earnings, since it shows the entire effect on earnings of the closure rather than only the pre-tax amount. The after-tax amount is determined by applying the applicable U.S. federal income tax rate to the pre-tax amount.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Some of the statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 8-K, including those relating to the amount and timing of the charge to earnings the Registrant expects to record, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed by these forward-looking statements due to, among other factors, finalization of the amount of the after-tax charge and the factors detailed in the Registrants Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and its subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which represent estimates only as of the date hereof.  The Registrant disclaims any obligation to update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  January 18, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Hess Announces Charge Related to Closure of HOVENSA Joint Venture Refinery
NEW YORK, Jan. 18, 2012 (Business Wire)  Hess Corporation announced today that it will take a $525 million after-tax charge against its fourth quarter 2011 earnings as a result of the shutdown of the HOVENSA L.L.C. refinery in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, a joint venture between Hess and Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. Following the shutdown, the complex will operate as an oil storage terminal.
 
HOVENSA said in a release today that its losses at the refinery have totaled $1.3 billion in the past three years alone and were projected to continue. HOVENSAs losses have been caused primarily by weakness in demand for refined petroleum products due to the global economic slowdown and the addition of new refining capacity in emerging markets. In the past three years, these factors have caused the closure of approximately 18 refineries in the United States and Europe with capacity totaling more than 2 million barrels of oil per day. In addition, the low price of natural gas in the United States has put HOVENSA, an oil-fueled refinery, at a competitive disadvantage.
 
HOVENSA said it had explored all available options to keep the refinery operating but severe financial losses left it with no other choice.
 
Hess Corporation, with headquarters in New York, is a global integrated energy company engaged in the exploration, production, purchase, transportation and sale of
 
 
 
crude oil and natural gas, as well as the production and sale of refined petroleum products.  More information on Hess Corporation is available at .
www.hess.com
Cautionary Statements
 
This news release contains projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  These projections and statements reflect the companys current views with respect to future events and financial performance.  No assurances can be given, however, that these events will occur or that these projections will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risk factors.  A discussion of these risk factors is included in the companys periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 # # #


