FILE:HSY/HSY-8K-20060420070149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
On April 20, 2006, The Hershey Company (the Company) announced sales and earnings for the first quarter of 2006. A copy of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the Exhibit, shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
99.1
 
Press  Release dated April 20, 2006
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  April 20, 2006
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
HERSHEY, Pa., April 20, 2006
The Hershey Company (NYSE:HSY) today announced sales and earnings for the first quarter ended April 2, 2006. Consolidated net sales were $1,132,728,000 compared with $1,126,414,000 for the first quarter of 2005. Net income for the first quarter of 2006 was $120,968,000, or $.50 per share-diluted, compared with $113,022,000, or $.45 per share-diluted, for the comparable period of 2005.
The results reflect the expensing of employee stock options and other share-based compensation for all periods presented in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004
)
Share-Based
 
Payment
(SFAS No. 123R), under the modified retrospective application method. Under the modified retrospective application method, the results for 2005 are reported as though stock options granted by the Company had been expensed beginning January 1, 2005.
For the first quarter of 2006, these results, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), include a net pre-tax charge of $1.7 million associated with the previously announced business realignment initiatives to advance the Companys value-enhancing strategy. Net income from operations, which excludes the net charge for the first quarter of 2006, was $122,183,000, or $.50 per share-diluted, compared with $113,022,000, or $.45 per share-diluted in 2005
.
 
Modest sales growth, strong productivity, solid cost control, and a lower tax rate generated an 11.1 percent increase in diluted earnings per share from operations.
 
First-Quarter Performance
 
Results for the first quarter were mixed, said Richard H. Lenny, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, as modest sales growth was leveraged through productivity improvement and cost control to deliver solid earnings from operations.  Our sales performance was impacted by earlier seasonal shipments, which benefited our market share results, as well as lower single-serve shipments. This slowdown can be attributed to a price increase buy-in from last year and a reduction in retail inventory levels at selected customers.
 
.  
Importantly, Hersheys marketplace leadership continued to strengthen. We gained market share in all major product segments and across most classes of trade on both a seasonal and everyday basis. New products such as and Ice Cubes were solid contributors to our share gains
Kissables
Ice Breaker
 
As we approach the balance of 2006, weve identified several opportunities to ensure that Hershey continues to deliver a superior value proposition to both our consumers and our customers. Were accelerating the development and introduction of innovative platforms. Specifically, were expanding our presence within the dark chocolate, refreshment, cookies, and single-serve snack nut segments. These platforms deliver highly incremental sales and profitability while enabling Hershey to leverage its iconic brands, marketplace leadership, and in-store presence. In addition, well be reducing the absolute number of both existing and new products. This will streamline our business system and ensure the appropriate focus on these high growth initiatives.
Across the business system, we have good visibility into our full-year cost profile. We anticipate expanding operating margins will provide the appropriate leverage to improving sales performance. Therefore, for the full year 2006, we expect that net sales will increase at a rate somewhat above our 3-4 percent long-term goal, with diluted earnings per share from operations to increase slightly above our 9-11 percent long-term expectations, Lenny concluded.
 
 
 
Note:
 
In this sales and earnings release, Hershey has provided income measures excluding certain items described above, in addition to net income determined in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures, as shown in the attached pro forma income statements, are used in evaluating results of operations for internal purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, the Company believes exclusion of such items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
Live Web Cast
 
As previously announced, the Company will hold a conference call with analysts today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call will be web cast live via Hersheys corporate Website
www.hersheys.com
. Please go to the Investor Relations Section of the Website for further details.
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This release contains statements which are forward-looking. These statements are made based upon current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Factors which could cause results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: our ability to implement and generate expected ongoing annual savings from the initiatives to advance our value-enhancing strategy; changes in raw material and other costs and selling price increases; our ability to implement improvements to and reduce costs associated with our supply chain; pension cost factors, such as actuarial assumptions, market performance and employee retirement decisions; changes in our stock price, and resulting impacts on our expenses for incentive
compensation, stock options and certain employee benefits; market demand for our new and existing products; changes in our business environment, including actions of competitors and changes in consumer preferences; changes in governmental laws and regulations, including taxes; risks and uncertainties related to our international operations; and such other matters as discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2005.
Media Contact:    Stephanie L. Moritz     (717) 534-7641
Financial Contact:  James A. Edris           (717) 534-7556
 
 


