FILE:HSY/HSY-8K-20060915082720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
On March 15, 2006, The Hershey Company (the Company) filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the March 15, 2006 Form 8-K) announcing that it had entered into a short - term credit agreement (the Short -Term Credit Agreement) with the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders listed on the signature pages thereof (collectively the New Facility Lenders), Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for the New Facility Lenders, Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agent, UBS Loan Finance LLC, as documentation agent, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers. The Short -Term Credit Agreement established an unsecured revolving credit facility under which the Company could borrow up to $400 million. The Short -Term Credit Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the March 15, 2006 Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The term of the Short -Term Credit Agreement is scheduled to expire on September 15, 2006.
On September 14, 2006, the Company entered into a Letter Amendment with the New Facility Lenders and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the New Facility Lenders (the Letter Amendment). The Letter Amendment amends the Short -Term Credit Facility to: (1) extend the term of the Short -Term Credit Facility through and including December 1, 2006, and (2) reduce the total credit limit available under the Short -Term Credit Facility from $400 million to $200 million. All of the other terms and conditions of the Short -Term Credit Facility remain the same. A copy of the Letter Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company also maintains a five year credit agreement (the Five Year Credit Agreement) with banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (collectively the Lenders) more fully described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K, filed November 16, 2004. The Five Year Credit Agreement established an unsecured revolving credit facility under which the Company may borrow up to $900 million with the option to increase borrowings by an additional $600 million with the concurrence of the Lenders. Funds borrowed under the Five Year Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, including commercial paper backstop.
The foregoing descriptions of the Short-Term Credit Agreement, the Letter Amendment and the Five Year Credit Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of those documents.
In the ordinary course of their respective businesses, the New Facility Lenders and certain of the Lenders and their respective affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in commercial banking and/or investment banking transactions with the Company and its affiliates for which they have in the past received, and may in the future receive, customary fees. The New Facility Lenders are Lenders under the Five Year Credit Agreement along with six other banking institutions. Citibank, N.A. is Trustee, and affiliates of Bank of America N.A. and UBS Loan Finance LLC were underwriters of, the Companys offering in August 2006 of $250 million 5.300% Notes due September 1, 2011 and $250 million 5.450% Notes due September 1, 2016.
 
 
 
 
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
(d)   
 
Exhibits
10.1 
Letter Amendment
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  September 15, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
To the banks, financial institutions
and other institutional lenders
(collectively, the 
Lenders
) parties
to the Credit Agreement referred to
below and to Citibank, N.A., as agent
(the 
Agent
) for the Lenders
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We refer to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 13, 2006 (the 
Credit Agreement
) among the undersigned and you. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Letter Amendment have the same meanings as specified in the Credit Agreement.
 
It is hereby agreed by you and us that the Credit Agreement is, effective as of the date of this Letter Amendment, hereby amended as follows:
 
(a)
 
The definition of Termination Date in Section 1.01 is amended by deleting the date September 15, 2006 and substituting therefor the date December 1, 2006.
 
(b)
 
Schedule I is amended in full to read as set forth as Annex A to this Letter Amendment.
 
The Company hereby certifies that, as of the date of this Letter Amendment, the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement are correct on and as of such date and no event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
 
This Letter Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written when, and only when, on or before September 15, 2006, the Agent shall have received counterparts of this Letter Amendment executed by the undersigned and all of the Lenders or, as to any of the Lenders, advice satisfactory to the Agent that such Lender has executed this Letter Amendment. This Letter Amendment is subject to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the Credit Agreement.
 
On and after the effectiveness of this Letter Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to this Agreement, hereunder, hereof or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in the Notes to the Credit Agreement, thereunder, thereof  or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Letter Amendment.
 
The Credit Agreement and the Notes, as specifically amended by this Letter Amendment, are and shall continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed. The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Letter Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under the Credit Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement.
 
 
 
If you agree to the terms and provisions hereof, please evidence such agreement by executing and returning at least two counterparts of this Letter Amendment to Susan L. Hobart, Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York New York 10022.
 
This Letter Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Letter Amendment by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Letter Amendment.
 
This Letter Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
Agreed as of the date first above written:
 
CITIBANK, N.A.,
as Agent and as Lender
 
By   
/s/ Anish M. Shah
 
 
Title:  Vice President
 
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
 
By  
 /s/
J. Casy Cosgrove
   
    Title:  Vice President
 
UBS LOAN FINANCE LLC
 
By  
 
/s/ Richard L. Tavrow
        Title:  Director
 
By  
  /s/ Irja R. Otsa
 
    Title:  Associate Director
 
 
 
ANNEX A to Letter Amendment
 
 
 
TOTAL OF
 
                    
$200,000,000
COMMITMENTS
 
 


