FILE:HSY/HSY-8K-20071205092831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On November 30, 2007, The Hershey Company (the Company) announced that Thomas K. Hernquist, Senior Vice President, Global Chief Growth Officer, has resigned from the Company.  Mr. Hernquists tenure as an elected officer of the Company ended on December 4, 2007, and his last day of active employment will be December 31, 2007.
In connection with his resignation, Mr. Hernquist entered into a Confidential Agreement and General Release (the Agreement) pursuant to which he will receive benefits under the Companys Executive Benefits Protection Plan (Group 3A) (the Group 3A Plan) and provide, through December 31, 2008, certain consultation and transition assistance if and as reasonably requested by the Company.  The Agreement also contains covenants regarding confidentiality and non-competition.
The Group 3A Plan was last filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on January 3, 2007, as Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K.  Details of Mr. Hernquists participation under the Group 3A Plan are contained in the Companys proxy statement for the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, filed with the SEC on March 16, 2007, except that Mr. Hernquist will receive payment of his base salary component in a lump-sum upon separation from service as opposed to payment over a period of two years as described in the proxy statement.  This change is one of several minor amendments to the Group 3A Plan adopted by the Companys Board of Directors in October 2007 in response to the adoption of final regulations under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
A copy of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  December  5, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
 
The Hershey Company (NYSE: HSY) today announced that Thomas K. Hernquist, Senior Vice President, Global Chief Growth Officer, has resigned from the company, effective December 31, 2007. Hernquist plans to work on ventures that leverage strategic consumer insights and innovation.
HERSHEY, Pa., Nov. 30, 2007 
I want to thank Tom for his numerous contributions to The Hershey Company, said Richard H. Lenny, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, The Hershey Company. In his early years here, Tom provided much-needed leadership to Hersheys marketing efforts by building new capabilities and strengthening our marketplace performance. More recently, Tom has worked to develop our new product platforms and accelerated the growth in Hersheys premium and dark chocolate portfolios. Hes brought a tremendous passion to continuing our heritage of making a difference in the community and in leading industry efforts to drive positive change in the worlds cocoa-growing regions.
Hernquist joined Hershey in 2003 as Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, where he led the growth in Hersheys core brands and overall confectionery portfolio in North America. Prior to his current position, Hernquist was Senior Vice President, President U.S. Confectionery.
 
He joined Hershey from Fortune Brands where he served as Senior Vice President, Global Marketing, with responsibility for the companys distilled spirits business. He has served as Senior Vice President of Marketing for Nabiscos Biscuit Division and Vice President and General Manager, Entenmanns, a unit of CPC International. He began his marketing career at Frito-Lay, Inc. Hernquist is also on the Executive Committee of the American Marketing Association and serves on the board of directors of Bon Ton.
Hershey is a truly unique company with outstanding brands, deeply committed employees and a rich heritage of giving to the community, Hernquist said. Im grateful to have worked with such outstanding people and brands. Im also proud of the many accomplishments that we have achieved, from driving strategic ventures into premium and dark chocolate, developing innovative platforms and creating the Hershey Center for Health and Nutrition. I have been honored to have played a leadership role in the companys active commitment to social responsibility across the globe and within our local communities. I want to thank the Hershey Executive Team and the many talented and dedicated people I have worked with at this company and in the Hershey community.
About The Hershey Company
The Hershey Company (NYSE: HSY) is the largest North American manufacturer of quality chocolate and sugar confectionery products. With revenues of nearly $5 billion and more than 13,000 employees worldwide, The Hershey Company markets such iconic brands as and. Hershey is the leader in the fast-growing dark and premium chocolate segment, with such brands as , and Hersheys franchise delivers refreshment across a variety of mint and gum flavors and formats. In addition, Hershey leverages its iconic brands, marketplace scale and confectionery and nut expertise to develop and deliver substantial snacks, including and single-serve cookies and brownies, and value-added snack nuts, including Milk Chocolate Covered Almonds and
Hersheys, Reeses, Hersheys Kisses,
Ice Breakers
Hersheys Special Dark
Hersheys Extra Dark
Cacao Reserve by Hersheys.
Ice Breakers
Hersheys
Reeses
Hersheys
Hersheys Special Dark
Chocolate Covered Almonds. Hershey also offers a range of products to address the health and well-being needs of todays consumer. and offer consumers great-tasting snacks in portion-controlled servings, while Hersheys dark chocolate offerings provide the benefits of flavanol antioxidants. In addition, Artisan Confections Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of The Hershey Company, markets such premium chocolate offerings as , known for its high-cacao dark chocolate products, , recognized for its fine, handcrafted chocolate gifts, and , known for its high-quality natural and organic chocolate bars. Visit us at
Hersheys
Reeses Snacksters
Scharffen Berger
Joseph Schmidt
Dagoba
www.hersheynewsroom.com
.


