FILE:HSY/HSY-8K-20070420152955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
On April 16, 2007, the Board of Directors of The Hershey Company (the "Company") approved changes to the Defined Contribution Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("DC SERP"), which is part of the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan.  On October 3, 2006, the Board generally approved the creation of the DC SERP, but the development of more specific terms were left to a later date.
Consistent with the initial terms of the DC SERP approved on October 3, 2006, the DC SERP account for eligible participants will be credited with an amount equal to a percentage of their eligible compensation and will be adjusted for investment credits in accordance with the existing terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan.  The Compensation and Executive Organization Committee of the Board is authorized to designate eligible participants and to set the applicable compensation crediting percentage for each participant.
On April 16, 2007, the Board approved the following new terms for the DC SERP:
The Board authorized and directed the officers of the Company to prepare and adopt amendments to the Deferred Compensation Plan to reflect the changes described above.  At the date of this filing, there have been no participants designated for participation in the DC SERP by the Compensation and Executive Organization Committee.
On April 17, 2007, stockholders of the Company approved the Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the EICP), which is an amendment and restatement of the Companys former Key Employee Incentive Plan and a continuation of the Companys Directors Compensation Plan, Broad Based Stock Option Plan and Broad Based Annual Incentive Plan.  The EICP was approved by the Board of Directors on February13, 2007, to be effective upon stockholder approval.  The amendments approved by the stockholders include:
 
 
 
 
 
The EICP will continue to provide for the granting of annual incentive awards and stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock unit and performance stock unit awards.  These awards are currently permitted under the Key Employee Incentive Plan, the Broad Based plans or the Directors Compensation Plan.  The EICP will also provide for the granting of performance stock, restricted stock and other stock-based and cash-based awards including deferred stock units to our non-employee directors.
The foregoing description of the EICP is qualified by reference to the plan document, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date:   April 20, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
1.     Establishment and Purpose
The Hershey Company (the "Company") hereby establishes The Hershey Company Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").  The purpose of the Plan is to provide to employees, non-employee directors and certain service providers to the Company or its subsidiaries (as defined below), upon whose efforts the Company is dependent for the successful conduct of its business, further incentive to continue and increase their efforts and to remain in the service of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Plan is an amendment and restatement of and continues the Key Employee Incentive Plan (KEIP), including the Annual Incentive Program ("AIP") and the Long-Term Incentive Program ("LTIP") portion, with certain modifications, and shall be the vehicle for any future awards under the Broad Based Stock Option Plan, Directors Compensation Plan and Broad Based Annual Incentive Plan.
The Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors on February 13, 2007, subject to approval of the stockholders at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  The Plan shall be effective on the date of such stockholder approval (the Effective Date).
As used herein, (i) the term "Subsidiary Company" or Subsidiary shall mean any present or future corporation or entity which is or would be a "subsidiary" of the Company as defined in Section 424 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") or any successor provision, and (ii) the term "Company" defined above shall refer collectively to The Hershey Company and its Subsidiary Companies unless the context indicates otherwise.
2.     Stock Subject to the Plan
The aggregate number of shares of the Companys common stock, $1.00 par value per share (the Common Stock), that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to awards granted wholly or partly in Common Stock (including rights or options which may be exercised for or settled in Common Stock) is 19,044,782, plus 13,220,127 shares that may be issued pursuant to awards outstanding under the KEIP as of February 13, 2007, the date this Plan was approved by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that of the 19,044,782 shares available for issuance under the Plan that are not subject to outstanding awards under the KEIP as of February 13, 2007, only 6,348,261 shares, representing one-third of such shares, may be issued under this Plan with respect to awards made on or after February 13, 2007 that are not stock options or stock appreciation rights.  The shares of Common Stock issued under this Plan may be either authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares held by the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof, or shares acquired by the Company through open market purchases or otherwise.  The number of shares of Common Stock underlying any
 
-1-
 
awards outstanding on or after the Effective Date that are forfeited or terminated, surrendered, expire unexercised, or are settled in cash in lieu of Common Stock, shall again immediately become available for issuance pursuant to awards hereunder.  Shares withheld by the Company to satisfy tax withholding obligations and all shares covered by stock appreciation rights, to the extent exercised and settled in Common Stock, shall be considered issued or transferred pursuant to the Plan.  The Committee may from time to time adopt and observe such procedures concerning the counting of shares against the Plan maximum as it may deem appropriate.
3.     Administration
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation and Executive Organization Committee (the "Committee"), or any successor committee, appointed by and consisting solely of members of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company.  To the extent provided by resolution of the Board, the Committee may authorize the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, acting to the extent necessary as a committee of the Board, and other senior officers of the Company to designate officers and employees to be recipients of awards, to determine the terms, conditions, form and amount of any such awards, and to take such other actions which the Committee is authorized to take under this Plan, provided that the Committee may not delegate to any person the authority to grant awards to, or take other action with respect to, participants who at the time of such awards or action are subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) or are covered employees as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, awards relating to the non-employee directors shall be administered by the full Board of Directors, who shall have all of the authority and discretion otherwise granted to the Committee with respect to the administration of the Plan, and with respect to such awards, reference herein to Committee shall mean reference to the Board, and to the extent required by the Companys governing documents or the Board, awards to the Companys Chief Executive Officer shall be administered by the independent directors on the Companys Board, and with respect to such awards references to Committee shall mean reference to such independent directors.
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority:  (i) to determine the terms, conditions, form and amount of awards, distributions or payments granted or made to each participant, including conditions upon and provisions for vesting, exercise and acceleration of any awards, distributions or payments, which terms and conditions shall be set forth in a written agreement, subplan, program, statement or other document (which may be in electronic format) issued by the Company evidencing such award (any such agreement, subplan, program, statement or document being an award agreement); (ii) to construe and interpret the terms and intent of the Plan and any award agreement; (iii) to define the terms used in the Plan; (iv) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (v) to select individuals to participate in the Plan; (vi) upon the request of a participant in the Plan, to approve and determine the duration of leaves of absence which may be granted to the participant without constituting a termination of his or her employment for purposes of the Plan; (vii)  to adopt such procedures, agreements, arrangements, subplans and terms as are necessary or appropriate to permit participation in the Plan by employees who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States; and (viii) to make all other
 
-2-
 
determinations necessary or advisable for the administration and operation of the Plan.  The Committee shall have the right to impose varying terms and conditions with respect to each grant or award.  All determinations and interpretations made by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive on all participants and on their legal representatives and beneficiaries.
4.     Fair Market Value
As used in the Plan (unless a different method of calculation is required by applicable law, and except as otherwise specifically provided in any Plan provision or provided by the Committee with respect to an award), "Fair Market Value" on or as of the applicable date shall mean (i) the closing price of the Common Stock as reported in the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Report (or any other consolidated transactions reporting system which subsequently may replace such Composite Transactions Report) for the New York Stock Exchange on such date (or, unless otherwise provided in the award with respect to awards made prior to the Effective Date, the trading day immediately preceding such date), or if there are no sales on such date, on the next preceding day on which there were sales, or (ii) in the event that the Common Stock is no longer listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, an amount determined in accordance with standards adopted by the Committee.
5.     Eligibility and Participation
Employees, non-employee directors and individuals who provide services to the Company or any of its Subsidiary Companies as consultants, contractors or agency employees, shall be eligible for selection to participate in the Plan.  An individual who receives an award under the Plan is referred to herein as a participant.  A participant may receive more than one award from time to time, and may be granted any combination of awards as the Committee shall determine.
6.     Annual Incentive Program
The Committee may from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, establish contingent target awards for those eligible individuals it selects to participate in the AIP.  Each such contingent target award shall be evidenced by an award agreement, and shall be determined based upon such factors as are deemed appropriate by the Committee, subject to the following:
 
 
-3-
 
7.      Long-Term Incentive Program
Awards under the LTIP may be one or more of the following:
I.                       Performance Stock Units and Performance Stock
The Committee may, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, grant Performance Stock Units and/or shares of Performance Stock to reflect the value of contingent target awards established for each eligible individual selected for participation.  Each grant of Performance Stock Units or Performance Stock shall be evidenced by an award agreement, subject to the following:
 
-4-
 
 
II.                     Stock Options
The Committee may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as it may determine, grant an award of nonqualified Options to purchase shares of Common Stock of the Company to individuals eligible to participate in the Plan.  Each Option award shall be evidenced by an award agreement on such terms and conditions and be in such form as the Committee may from time to time approve, subject to the following:
 
-5-
 
 
-6-
 
 
 
For purposes of this Plan, Hershey Trust means either or both of (a) Hershey Trust Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, as Trustee for the Milton Hershey School, or any successor to Hershey Trust Company as such trustee, and (b) Milton Hershey School, a Pennsylvania not-for-profit corporation.
 
-7-
 
III.                    Stock Appreciation Rights
The Committee may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, grant an award of SARs to individuals eligible to participate in the Plan.  SARs shall be evidenced by an award agreement, and shall be subject to such terms and conditions consistent with the Plan as the Committee shall impose from time to time, including the following:
 
-8-
 
IV.                    Restricted Stock Units and Restricted Stock
The Committee may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as it may determine, grant an award of Restricted Stock Units and/or shares of Restricted Stock to individuals eligible to participate in the Plan.  Each grant of Restricted Stock Units and/or shares of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by an award agreement.  The grant of Restricted Stock Units and/or Restricted Stock (an RSU/RS Award) shall state the number of Restricted Stock Units or shares of Common Stock covered by the grant, and shall contain such terms and conditions and be in such form as the Committee may from time to time approve, subject to the following:
 
-9-
 
V.                     Other Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards
The Committee may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as it may determine, grant other Cash-Based Awards and/or Stock-Based Awards to individuals eligible to receive awards under the Plan.  Each grant of a Cash-Based Award or Stock-Based Award shall be evidenced by an award agreement, subject to the following:
-10-
 
8.     Termination of Service
Except as otherwise provided in an award agreement or determined by the Committee, upon termination of service with the Company of any participant, such participant's rights with respect to awards, shall be as follows:
 
 
-11-
Upon the occurrence of a Potential Change in Control (as defined in subparagraph (k) of Paragraph 7II hereof) and for a period of one (1) year thereafter, the following special provision and notice requirement shall be applicable in the event of the termination of the service of any participant holding an Option or SAR under the Plan:   (i) in no event may a notice of termination of service be issued to such a participant unless at least ten (10) business days prior to the effective date of such termination, the participant is provided with a written notice of intent to terminate the  participant's service which sets forth in reasonable detail the reason for such intent to terminate, the date on which such termination is to be effective, and a description of the participant's rights under this Plan and under the applicable award agreements, including the fact that no such Option or SAR may be exercised after such termination has become effective and the manner, extent and price at which all Options and SARs then held by such participant may be exercised; and (ii) such notice of intent to terminate a participant's employment shall not be considered a "termination of service" for purposes of the first sentence of this Paragraph 8(a).  This Paragraph 8(a) is intended only to provide for a requirement of notice to terminate upon the occurrence of the events set forth herein and shall not be construed to create an obligation of continued service in any manner or to otherwise affect or limit the Company's ability to terminate the service of any participant holding an Option or SAR under the Plan.
Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control and for a period of two (2) years thereafter, in the event of the termination of a participants service by the Company for any reason other than for Cause (as defined below) or by the participant for Good Reason (as defined below), such participant shall have one (1) year from the date of termination of service to exercise such Option or SAR or until the date of expiration of the Option or SAR, if earlier. In addition, all restrictions and limitations on the exercise of such Option or the sale of shares of Common Stock received pursuant to exercise of an Option or SAR relating to minimum stockholding requirements shall immediately terminate upon the occurrence of a Change in Control.
For purposes of this Plan, Cause means, with respect to a participant who is covered under the Companys Severance Benefits Plan for Salaried Employees, Employee Benefits Protection Plan (Group 2), Executive Benefits Protection Plan (Group 3), or Executive Benefits Protection Plan (Group 3A) or any similar or successor plan, or an employment or similar agreement with the Company or any Subsidiary, cause as defined in the plan or agreement applicable to such participant, and with respect to all other participants, means (a) the willful and continued failure of the participant to substantially perform the participant's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the participant by the participant's supervisor which specifically identifies the manner in which the participant's supervisor believes that the participant has not substantially performed the participants duties; (b) the willful engaging by the participant in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company; (c) the participant having been convicted of, or having entered into a plea of nolo contendere to, a crime that constitutes a felony; or (d) the willful material breach by the participant of the Companys Code of Ethical Business Conduct or any successor or similar code of conduct, or other material policies applicable to
 
-12-
 
the participant, including policies prohibiting disclosure or misuse of confidential information.  For purposes of the preceding clauses (a) and (b), no act or failure to act, on the part of the participant, shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the participant in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the participant's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.  Any act, or failure to act, based upon the instructions or with the approval of a senior officer of the Company or the participant's superior or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the participant in good faith and in the best interests of the Company.
For purposes of this Plan, Good Reason means, with respect to a participant who is covered under the Companys Severance Benefits Plan for Salaried Employees, Employee Benefits Protection Plan (Group 2), Executive Benefits Protection Plan (Group 3), or Executive Benefits Protection Plan (Group 3A), or any similar or successor plan, or an employment or similar agreement with the Company or any Subsidiary, good reason (or other words of similar import) as defined in the plan or agreement applicable to such participant, and with respect to all other participants, means good reason as defined in the Companys Severance Benefits Plan for Salaried Employees as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control as if such plan applied to such participant.
 
-13-
 
9.      Performance Factors; Additional Requirements
Without limiting the type or number of awards that may be made under this Plan, an award may be a performance-based award.  A performance-based award intended to comply as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code is referred to as a Performance Award.  A Performance Award shall, except as may otherwise be permitted
 
 
-14-
 
under Section 162(m) of the Code, be paid, vested or otherwise deliverable solely on account of the attainment of one or more pre-established, objective performance goals (Performance Goals) established by the Committee prior to the earlier to occur of (x) 90 days after the commencement of the period of service to which the Performance Goal relates and (y) the elapse of 25% of the period of service (as established in good faith at the time the Performance Goal is established), and in any event while the outcome is substantially uncertain.  A Performance Goal is objective if a third party having knowledge of the relevant facts could determine whether the goal is met.  A Performance Goal may be based on one or more of the following measures:  net earnings or net income (before or after taxes), earnings per share, net sales or revenue growth, net operating profit, return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, capital, invested capital, equity, revenue, or sales), cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow, free cash flow, and cash flow return on equity), earnings before or after taxes, interest, depreciation, and/or amortization, gross or operating margins, productivity ratios, share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total shareholder return), expense targets, margins, operating efficiency, market share, customer satisfaction, and/or balance sheet measures (including but not limited to, working capital amounts and levels of short- and long-term debt) (collectively, the Performance Factors).  Performance Factors may be particular to a participant or the division, line of business or other unit, or the Company generally, or may be absolute in their terms or measured against or in relationship to the performance of a peer group or other external or internal measure.  A Performance Goal may, but need not be, based upon a change or an increase or positive result under a particular Performance Factor and could include, for example, maintaining the status quo, limiting economic losses, or a relative comparison of performance to the performance of a peer group or other external or internal measure (measured, in each case, by reference to specific Performance Factors).  A Performance Goal may include or exclude items to measure specific objectives, including, without limitation, extraordinary or other non-recurring items, acquisitions and divestitures, internal restructuring and reorganizations, accounting charges and effects of accounting changes.  In interpreting Plan provisions applicable to Performance Awards to participants who are covered employees under Section 162(m) of the Code, it is the intent of the Plan to conform with the standards of Section 162(m) of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations, and the Committee in establishing such goals and interpreting the Plan shall be guided by such provisions.  Prior to the payment of any compensation based on the achievement of Performance Goals to any such covered employee, the Committee must certify in writing that applicable Performance Goals and any of the material terms thereof were, in fact, satisfied.  Subject to the foregoing provisions, the terms, conditions and limitations applicable to any Performance Awards made pursuant to this Plan shall be determined by the Committee.
The Committee has the authority to provide for accelerated vesting of any performance-based award based on the achievement of Performance Goals or such other factors as the Committee shall determine, including a Change in Control.
Awards that are intended to qualify as Performance Awards may not be adjusted upward.  The Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust Performance Awards downward, either on a formula or discretionary basis or any combination, as the Committee determines.  In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to
 
-15-
 
alter the governing Performance Goals and Performance Factors without obtaining stockholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining stockholder approval.
The Committee may grant or administer performance-based awards that are not intended to or do not qualify as Performance Awards meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code and may base vesting, payment or delivery of such awards on performance criteria (which shall be the Performance Goals with respect to such awards) which may be other than those set forth in this Paragraph 9.
No awards granted pursuant to the Plan shall be exercisable or realized in whole or in part, and the Company shall not be obligated to sell, distribute or issue any shares subject to any such award, if such exercise and sale would, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, violate the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (or other federal, state or foreign statutes having similar requirements).  Each award shall be subject to the further requirement that, if at any time the Board of Directors shall determine in its discretion that the listing or qualification of the shares relating or subject to such award under any securities exchange requirements or under any applicable law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such award or the distribution or issue of shares thereunder, such award may not be exercised in whole or in part unless such listing, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any condition not acceptable to the Board of Directors.
Awards may be subject to restrictions as to resale or other disposition and to such other provisions as may be appropriate to comply with federal, state or foreign securities laws and stock exchange requirements, and the exercise of any award or entitlement to payment thereunder may be contingent upon receipt from the holder (or any other person permitted by this Plan to exercise any award or receive any distribution hereunder) of a representation that at the time of such exercise it is his or her then present intention to acquire the shares being distributed for investment and not for resale.
10.    Non-Employee Directors
The Board may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as it may determine, grant awards to non-employee directors of the Company.  Such awards shall be evidenced by an award agreement.
11.   Nontransferability
Unless otherwise approved by the Committee or provided in an award agreement, awards granted under the Plan shall be nonassignable and shall not be transferable by the participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable, during the participants lifetime, only by the participant or the participants guardian or legal representative.
-16-
12.   Disclaimer of Rights
No provision in the Plan or any awards granted pursuant to the Plan shall be construed to confer upon the participant any right to be employed by or continue in the service of the Company or by any Subsidiary Company, to receive additional awards, or to interfere in any way with the right and authority of the Company or any Subsidiary Company either to increase or decrease the compensation of the participant at any time, or to terminate any relationship between the participant and the Company or any of its Subsidiary Companies.
Participants under the Plan shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to shares subject to any award hereunder unless and until such shares have been issued to them.
13.    Stock Adjustments
In the event that the shares of Common Stock, as presently constituted, shall be changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares of stock or other securities of the Company or of another company (whether by reason of merger, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, combination of shares or otherwise), or if the number of such shares of Common Stock shall be increased through the payment of a stock dividend, or a dividend on the shares of Common Stock of rights or warrants to purchase securities of the Company shall be made, then there shall be substituted for or added to each share available under and subject to the Plan as provided in Paragraph 2 hereof, and to the limitations set forth in Paragraph 7, and each share theretofore appropriated or thereafter subject or which may become subject to awards under the Plan, the number and kind of shares of stock or other securities into which each outstanding share of Common Stock shall be so changed or for which each such share shall be exchanged or to which each such share shall be entitled, as the case may be.  Outstanding awards also shall be appropriately amended as to price and other terms as may be necessary to reflect the foregoing events.  In the event there shall be any other change in the number or kind of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or of any stock or other securities into which the Common Stock shall have been changed or for which it shall have been exchanged, then if the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine that such change equitably requires an adjustment in the shares available under and subject to the Plan, or in any awards theretofore granted or which may be granted under the Plan, such adjustments shall be made in accordance with such determination.
No fractional shares of Common Stock or units of other securities shall be issued pursuant to any such adjustment, and any fractions resulting from any such adjustment shall be eliminated in each case by rounding downward to the nearest whole share or unit.
14.   Tax Withholding
The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a participant to remit to the Company, the minimum statutory amount to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan.
-17-
With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event arising from the issuance or delivery of shares of Common Stock with respect to an award granted hereunder, participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory withholding tax that could be imposed on the transaction.  All such elections shall be made in accordance with procedures and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
 
15.   General Provisions
 
-18-
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no awards shall be granted, that would violate applicable law.
  
 
-19-
 
16.   Effective Date and Termination of Plan
The Plan as amended and restated herein shall become effective upon approval by the stockholders at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Upon such approval, no further awards shall be made under the Broad Based Stock Option Plan, the Broad Based Annual Incentive Plan or the Directors Compensation Plan, but awards and amounts outstanding under such Plans and this Plan shall remain in effect and shall not be modified by this amended and restated Plan.
The Board of Directors at any time may terminate the Plan, but such termination shall not alter or impair any of the rights or obligations under any awards theretofore granted under the Plan unless the affected participant shall so consent.
17.   Application of Funds
The proceeds received by the Company from the sale of shares hereunder will be used for general corporate purposes.
18.   Amendment
The Board of Directors at any time and from time to time, may alter or amend the Plan, subject to any requirement of stockholder approval imposed by applicable law, rule or regulation; provided that any such amendment shall not adversely alter or impair any of the rights or obligations under any award theretofore granted under the Plan unless the affected participant shall so consent.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan may not be terminated or amended in a manner adverse to the interests of any participant (without the consent of the participant) either:  (a) at the time a Potential Change in Control occurs and continuing for a period of one (1) year following the cessation of a Potential Change in Control, or (b) for a two-year period beginning as of the date of a Change in Control (the "Coverage Period").  Upon the expiration
 
-20-
 
 
of the Coverage Period, subparagraph (l) of Paragraph 7II of the Plan and Paragraph 8(a) of the Plan may not be amended in any manner that would adversely affect any participant without the consent of the participant.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan to be adopted as of the 13th day of February 2007, subject to stockholder approval.
-21-


