FILE:HSY/HSY-8K-20070220170926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 
On February 15, 2007, The Hershey Company (the "Company") announced that on February 13, 2007, its Board of Directors had approved a comprehensive, three-year supply chain transformation program. This program is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. When completed, this program will greatly enhance Hersheys manufacturing, sourcing and customer service capabilities, and will generate significant resources to invest in the Companys growth initiatives. These initiatives include accelerated marketplace momentum within the Companys core U.S. business, creation of innovative new product platforms to meet consumer and customer needs, and disciplined global expansion.
 
Under the program, which will be implemented in stages over the next three years, Hershey will:
The transformation program will result in a flexible, global supply chain capable of delivering Hersheys iconic brands, in a wide range of affordable items and assortments, across retail channels in the Companys priority markets. Finished products will be sourced from fewer facilities, each one a center of excellence specializing in Hersheys proprietary product technologies. Increased access to borderless sourcing will further leverage the Companys manufacturing scale within a lower overall cost structure.
Hershey has developed a phased, three-year plan to ensure smooth implementation and to maintain product quality and customer service. The program will result in a total net reduction of approximately 1,500 positions across Hersheys supply chain over the next three years. When completed, manufacturing of approximately 80 percent of the Companys production volume will take place in the U.S. and Canada.
The Company estimates the program will incur pre-tax charges and non-recurring project implementation costs of $525 million to $575 million over the next three years. This estimate includes $275 million to $300 million in asset write-offs, $200 million to $225 million in employment-related costs, including the impact of curtailment charges associated with the Companys pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, and approximately $50 million in project implementation costs. These charges will be incurred primarily in 2007 and 2008, with approximately $300 million expected to be charged in 2007. The cash portion of the total charge is estimated to be $275 million to $300 million.
This initiative also includes gross capital investments of $300 million to $310 million.  Capital investments over the implementation period are expected to be approximately $200 million more than previous expectations of $190 million to $200 million per year, resulting in total capital expenditures for the Company of $250 million to $300 million in 2007 and $225 million to $250 million in 2008 and 2009.  Following completion of this initiative, the Company expects annual capital investments of approximately $140 million to $160 million.
As a result of the program, Hershey estimates that its gross margin should improve significantly, with
 
on-going annual savings of approximately $170 million to $190 million generated by 2010. A portion of these savings will be invested in the Companys strategic growth initiatives, in such areas as core brand growth, new product innovation, selling and go-to-market capabilities, and disciplined global expansion. The amount and timing of this investment will be contingent upon market conditions and the pace of the Companys innovation and global expansion.
Safe Harbor Statement
This report contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are made based upon current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Factors which could cause results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: our ability to implement and generate expected ongoing annual savings from the initiatives to transform our supply chain and advance our value-enhancing strategy; changes in raw material and other costs and selling price increases; our ability to execute our supply chain transformation within the anticipated timeframe in accordance with our cost estimates; the impact of future developments related to the recent product recall and temporary plant closure in Canada including our ability to recover costs we incurred for the recall and plant closure from responsible third-parties; pension cost factors, such as actuarial assumptions, market performance and employee retirement decisions; changes in our stock price, and resulting impacts on our expenses for incentive compensation, stock options and certain employee benefits; market demand for our new and existing products; changes in our business environment, including actions of competitors and changes in consumer preferences; changes in governmental laws and regulations, including taxes; risks and uncertainties related to our international operations; and such other matters as discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2005.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date:   February  20, 2007
 


