FILE:HSY/HSY-8K-20071009171913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
On October 2, 2007, the Board of Directors (Board) of The Hershey Company (the Company) approved the following actions:
Richard H. Lenny will continue as Chief Executive Officer of the Company until Mr. West assumes that office on December 1, 2007, and as Chairman of the Board of Directors and as a director of the Company until his retirement on December 31, 2007.  For information regarding Mr. Lennys retirement, please refer to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K, filed October 4, 2007. A copy of the Companys press release announcing the appointment of Messrs. West and Campbell to their new positions is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. West joined the Company in May 2001 as Vice President, Business Planning and Development.  He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Business Planning and Development in June 2002; Senior Vice President, Sales in December 2002; Senior Vice President, Chief Customer Officer in June 2004; and Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in January 2005.  In January 2007, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, and continued to hold the office of Chief Financial Officer until a successor Chief Financial Officer was elected on July 16, 2007.  He is also a director of Tasty Baking Company.
In connection with the promotion of Mr. West, the Compensation and Executive Organization Committee of the Board of Directors (Compensation Committee) and Board of Directors approved entering into an Executive Employment Agreement (Agreement) with Mr. West having a continuous term of three years, beginning October 2, 2007.  Under the terms of the Agreement, Mr. West will be entitled to continue to participate in, or be compensated in accordance with, the plans and programs available generally to executive officers of the Company, as outlined in the Companys proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, filed March 16, 2007 (proxy statement), including, but not limited to, the Companys Executive Benefits Protection Plan and Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, provided that to the extent approved by the Compensation and Executive Organization Committee of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors, Mr. West may become entitled to receive a reduced early retirement benefit under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan should his employment terminate after January 2, 2008 (or earlier, in circumstances other than termination for cause or voluntary resignation without good reason under the Agreement) and prior to age 55.  Additionally, an annual base salary to be paid to Mr. West during the term of the Agreement will not be less than $1,000,000, his participation in the Annual Incentive Program (AIP) of the Companys Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (Incentive Plan) will be at a target annual bonus of not less than 100% of base
 
 
salary, and the Long Term Incentive Program of the Incentive Plan will be on terms and conditions consistent with participation by the Companys other senior executives.  Mr. Wests Long Term Incentive Program target award for 2008 will be equal to 300% of his base salary.
Finally, in recognition of his promotion, Mr. West was awarded, on October 2, 2007, options to purchase 37,400 shares of our common stock, $1.00 par value (Common Stock).  The options have an exercise price of $45.78, the closing price of our Common Stock on the grant date, vest over four years and are subject to other terms and conditions similar to those applicable to the options granted in April 2007 and the Agreement. Mr. West was also awarded an increase of 15,200 units in the target number of PSUs for the 2007-2009 performance cycle, subject to the same terms and conditions as the 2007-2009 PSUs awarded to Mr. West in February 2007; and 22,000 deferrable restricted stock units (RSUs), vesting of which will occur on January 2, 2008, provided Mr. Wests employment has not terminated prior to such date. In addition, the PSUs awarded to him in connection with the 2003-2005 cycle will fully vest at the earlier of December 31, 2008 or Mr. Wests death, disability or termination.
For the remainder of 2007, Mr. Campbell will be compensated in accordance with the Companys standard compensation policies and practices for the Board as disclosed in the proxy statement.  At the time of this filing, no decision has been made regarding possible adjustments to Mr. Campbells compensation in recognition of his additional duties.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 9, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
Following the regularly scheduled meeting today of the Board of Directors of The Hershey Company (NYSE:HSY), the Company  announced that David J. West has been named President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company. Richard H. Lenny will continue as Chairman of the Board and as a Director of the Company until year-end. The Board has appointed Robert H. Campbell, member of Hersheys Board of Directors and Chairman of the Compensation and Executive Organization Committee, non-executive Chairman of the Board, effective January 1, 2008.
HERSHEY, Pa., October 2, 2007 
Yesterday, Lenny announced his intention to retire as the Companys Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer by the end of 2007. West is currently Hersheys Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer.
Wests appointment as President and Director are effective immediately. He will assume the role of Chief Executive Officer on December 1, 2007, to ensure an orderly transition.
 
In making the announcement on West, Campbell said, Dave is a very strong leader with an in-depth knowledge of all aspects of Hersheys business. He has earned the respect of the financial community, Hersheys customers, the Companys employees and the Board of Directors. Dave will work with the management team to ensure the Company continues to execute on its value-enhancing strategy and delivers exceptional shareholder value through core brand growth and disciplined global expansion. On behalf of the board, I congratulate Dave on his new role.
Commenting on Wests announcement, Lenny said,Dave and I have worked closely together for the past six years. During this time, Dave has successfully led numerous parts of our business and clearly understands Hersheys strategic growth drivers. Equally as important, his leadership style reflects a strong sense of collaboration and commitment to people. Im especially pleased to have Dave as Hersheys next CEO. He is perfectly suited to take the company to the next level and maintain our commitment to delivering superior shareholder value over the long-term. I look forward to working with Dave to ensure a smooth transition.
 
I am grateful for the confidence that the Board has shown in naming me President and Chief Executive Officer, West said. I look forward to working with Rick and other members of our management team as we pursue our shared objective of enhancing shareholder value. Im honored to be able to lead the employees of this great company who have been so instrumental in my career over the past six years. I look forward to continuing to grow this business with them in the years to come.
In his current role, West is responsible for the companys day-to-day operations, including Hersheys North American Commercial Group, International Commercial Group, and global supply chain activities.
West joined The Hershey Company in May 2001 as Vice President, Business Planning and Development. He was named Senior Vice President, Business Planning and Development, in 2002 and later, promoted to Senior Vice President, Chief Customer Officer. He was named Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, in 2005.
Prior to joining Hershey, West was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Nabisco Biscuit and Snacks Group, with responsibility for leading the financial function of Kraft Foods biscuits, confections and snacks businesses. He joined Nabisco as Senior Cost Analyst, Planters/Life Savers Company in 1987. During his 14-year career with Nabisco, he served as Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Business Planning, and Director, Investment Analysis, among others. He previously held positions in finance and cost accounting with Wearever Proctor-Silex and Unisys.
A native of the Lehigh Valley, Pa., West received a bachelors degree, cum laude, in business administration from Bucknell University, Lewisburg, Pa.
 
Campbell retired in June 2000 as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Sunoco, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a petroleum refiner and marketer. He is a director of CIGNA Corporation and Vical Incorporated. A Hershey director since 1995, Campbell chairs the Compensation and Executive Organization Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee and Executive Committee. In 2001, Mr. Campbell was named one of Corporate Americas Outstanding Directors by the editors of Corporate Alert.
 
 
About The Hershey Company
 
The Hershey Company (NYSE: HSY) is the largest North American manufacturer of quality chocolate and sugar confectionery products. With revenues of nearly $5 billion and more than 13,000 employees worldwide, The Hershey Company markets such iconic brands as and. Hershey is the leader in the fast-growing dark and premium chocolate segment, with such brands as , and Hersheys franchise delivers refreshment across a variety of mint and gum flavors and formats. In addition, Hershey leverages its iconic brands, marketplace scale and confectionery and nut expertise to develop and deliver substantial snacks, including and single-serve cookies and brownies, and value-added snack nuts, including Milk Chocolate Covered Almonds and
Hersheys, Reeses, Hersheys Kisses,
Ice Breakers
Hersheys Special Dark
Hersheys Extra Dark
Cacao Reserve by Hersheys.
Ice Breakers
Hersheys
Reeses
Hersheys
Hersheys Special Dark
Chocolate Covered Almonds. Hershey also offers a range of products to address the health and well-being needs of todays consumer. and offer consumers great-tasting snacks in portion-controlled servings, while Hersheys dark chocolate offerings provide the benefits of flavanol antioxidants. In addition, Artisan Confections Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of The Hershey Company, markets such premium chocolate offerings as , known for its high-cacao dark chocolate products, , recognized for its fine, handcrafted chocolate gifts, and , known for its high-quality natural and organic chocolate bars. Visit us at
Hersheys
Reeses Snacksters
Scharffen Berger
Joseph Schmidt
Dagoba
www.hersheynewsroom.com
.
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This release contains statements which are forward-looking. These statements are made based upon current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Factors which could cause results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: our ability to implement and generate expected ongoing annual savings from the initiatives to transform our supply chain and advance our value-enhancing strategy; changes in raw material and other costs and selling price increases; our ability to execute our supply chain transformation within the anticipated timeframe in accordance with our cost estimates; the impact of future developments related to the product recall and temporary plant closure in Canada in the fourth quarter of 2006, including our ability to recover costs we incurred for the recall and plant closure from responsible third-parties; pension cost factors, such as actuarial assumptions, market performance and employee retirement decisions; changes in our stock price, and resulting impacts on our expenses for incentive compensation, stock options and certain employee benefits; market demand for our new and existing products; changes in our business environment, including actions of competitors and changes in consumer preferences; changes in governmental laws and regulations, including taxes; risks and uncertainties related to our international operations; and such other matters as discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2006.
 
 


