FILE:HSY/HSY-8K-20080903091942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On September 2, 2008, The Hershey Company (Company) announced that its Board of Directors (Board) increased the size of the Board from nine to ten members and elected David L. Shedlarz a director, effective August 29, 2008.  Mr. Shedlarz will serve on the Audit Committee.
Mr. Shedlarz will be compensated for his service on the Board in accordance with the Companys Directors Compensation Plan.  There are no transactions that require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K as a result of the election of Mr. Shedlarz to the Board.
A copy of the Companys press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  September 3, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Hershey Company (NYSE: HSY) today announced the election to its Board of Directors of David L. Shedlarz, former Vice Chairman of Pfizer Inc., effective August 29, 2008.
HERSHEY, Pa., Sept. 2, 2008 
We are pleased to have a leader of Davids caliber join the Board, said Kenneth L. Wolfe, Chairman of the Board of Directors, The Hershey Company. His experience in strategic planning, innovation, manufacturing and global growth will be of immense value to The Hershey Company as we continue to build on our momentum in the marketplace.
Shedlarz retired in 2007 as Vice Chairman of Pfizer Inc., the worlds largest research-based biomedical and pharmaceutical company. He served as a member of the Pfizer Executive Leadership Team and was focused on helping set the strategic course of the company and investing in new medical therapies and approaches to health care. Shedlarz had responsibility for Pfizers business development and licensing, strategic planning, procurement, information technology, business innovation, facilities, Pfizer Global Manufacturing and Pfizer Animal Health.
Shedlarz joined Pfizer in 1976 as a senior financial analyst in the Pharmaceutical Division. He served as a financial manager and controller of Marketing, Sales and Production in the Diagnostics Division and was promoted to Vice President of Finance for the U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group. Shedlarz was elected Pfizer Inc. Vice President of Finance in 1992, Chief Financial Officer in 1995, and Executive Vice President in 1999. He was named Vice Chairman in 2005.
Shedlarz is a member of the TIAA Board of Trustees, and the board of directors of Pitney Bowes, Inc. He also is a Trustee of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation.
Shedlarz earned his M.B.A. in finance/accounting from Stern School of Business, New York University, in 1975, and a bachelors degree in economics/mathematics from Oakland/Michigan State University in 1970.
About The Hershey Company
 
The Hershey Company (NYSE: HSY) is the largest North American manufacturer of quality chocolate and sugar confectionery products. With revenues of nearly $5 billion and almost 13,000 employees worldwide, The Hershey Company markets such iconic brands as and. Hershey is the leader in the fast-growing dark and premium chocolate segment, with such brands as , , and Hersheys franchise delivers refreshment across a variety of mint and gum flavors and formats. Hersheys partnership with Starbucks offers a premium chocolate experience that combines the highest-quality chocolate with Starbucks coffee-house flavors, for a range of delicious and distinct chocolate products. In addition, Artisan Confections Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of The Hershey Company, markets such premium chocolate offerings as , known for its high-cacao dark chocolate products, , recognized for its fine, handcrafted chocolate gifts, and , known for its high-quality natural and organic chocolate bars. Visit us at
Hersheys, Reeses, Hersheys Kisses, Kit Kat, Twizzlers
Ice Breakers
Hersheys Bliss
Hersheys Special Dark
Hersheys Extra Dark
Cacao Reserve by Hersheys.
Ice Breakers
Scharffen Berger
Joseph Schmidt
Dagoba
www.hersheynewsroom.com
.
 
 
 


