FILE:HSY/HSY-8K-20110503143630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
.
Departure of Director
 
LeRoy S. Zimmerman retired from the Board of Directors of The Hershey Company (the Company) effective as of the election of directors at the Companys annual meeting of stockholders on April 28, 2011 (the Annual Meeting).
.
Amendment and Restatement of Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan
 
The Companys stockholders approved The Hershey Company Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated as of February 22, 2011, (the Plan), at the Annual Meeting.  The text of the Plan was included as Appendix B to the Companys definitive proxy statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2011 (the Proxy Statement), and a detailed description of the Plan was included on pages 87 to 99 of the Proxy Statement. The Plan and the description of the Plan, as included in the Proxy Statement, are listed as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2 hereto, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.  The description of the Plan incorporated as Exhibit 10.2 hereto is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan as incorporated as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
 
 
The following directors were elected by the holders of Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, voting together without regard to class, as follows:
Proposal No. 1.  
The following directors were elected by the holders of the Common Stock voting separately as a class, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock, voting together, ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent auditors for 2011, by the votes set forth as follows:
Proposal No. 2.  
 
 
Holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock, voting together, approved on a non-binding advisory basis the Companys executive compensation as described in the Proxy Statement, by the votes set forth as follows:
Proposal No. 3.  
 
 
Holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock, voting together, cast the following non-binding advisory votes regarding the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation:
Proposal No. 4.  
 
 
Holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock, voting together, approved The Hershey Company Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated as of February 22, 2011, by the votes set forth as follows:
Proposal No. 5.  
 
 
No other matters were submitted for stockholder action.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 3, 2011
 
 
 


