FILE:HSY/HSY-8K-20110426071035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
On April 26, 2011, The Hershey Company (the Company) announced sales and earnings for the first quarter of 2011.  A copy of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the Exhibit, shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date:   April 26, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HERSHEY ANNOUNCES FIRST QUARTER RESULTS;
REAFFIRMS OUTLOOK FOR 2011
 The Hershey Company (NYSE: HSY) today announced sales and earnings for the first quarter ended April 3, 2011. Consolidated net sales were $1,564,223,000 compared with $1,407,843,000 for the first quarter of 2010. Reported net income for the first quarter of 2011 was $160,115,000 or $0.70 per share-diluted, compared with $147,394,000 or $0.64 per share-diluted for the comparable period of 2010.
HERSHEY, Pa., April 26, 2011
 
As described in the Note, for the first quarter of 2011, these results, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), included net pre-tax charges of $9.7 million, or $0.02 per share-diluted, which were related to the Project Next Century program announced in June 2010.  As described in the Note, adjusted net income, which excludes these net charges, was $166,232,000 or $0.72 per share-diluted in the first quarter of 2011.
 
 
In 2011, reported gross margin, reported income before interest and income taxes (EBIT) margin and reported earnings per share-diluted will be impacted by charges associated with Project Next Century. Therefore, we continue to expect reported earnings per share-diluted, including business realignment and impairment charges of $0.13 to $0.16 per share-diluted, to be in the $2.54 to $2.63 range. The forecast for total pre-tax GAAP charges and non-recurring project implementation costs related to the Project Next Century program remains at $140 million to $170 million. The expected timing of events and estimated costs and savings is included in Appendix I attached to this press release.
 
During the first quarter, the Company repurchased $100 million of Common Stock against the $250 million repurchase authorization that was approved in December 2006.  With the conclusion of the prior authorization, on April 22, 2011, the Board of Directors of The Hershey Company approved a new $250 million authorization to repurchase shares of Common Stock. Repurchases may take place from time to time, depending on market conditions. Acquired shares of the Common Stock will be held as treasury shares. This authorization is in addition to the Companys policy of repurchasing shares in the open market issued in connection with our equity compensation program.
 
 
First Quarter Performance and Outlook
 
 
Hersheys first quarter results represent a good start to the year and we maintained our marketplace momentum, said David J. West, President and Chief Executive Officer.  As anticipated, first quarter net sales were strong, increasing 11.1 percent. Net sales gains were driven by core brand growth in both U.S. and international markets, new products and a seasonal shift in volume from the fourth quarter of last year to the first quarter of this year. Additionally, the first quarter benefited from a change in order patterns of certain customers.
 
U.S. retail takeaway for the 12 weeks ended March 19, 2011, excluding the impact of Easter seasonal activity in the year ago and current period was up 6.7 percent, in channels that account for over 80 percent of our retail business. In the channels measured by syndicated data, U.S. market share, including Easter seasonal activity in the year ago and current period, increased 0.5 points. This performance reflects solid market share gains within our core chocolate and sugar confectionery businesses as well as the successful U.S. launches of and .  Preliminary data indicate strong sell through for the Easter season.  Advertising expense increased about 30 percent versus the year ago period, greater than the percentage increase forecasted for the full year due to timing. This is the result of on-air support of core brands, new products,and advertising campaigns, and programming related to a longer Easter season.  As previously announced, for the full-year 2011, we expect advertising to increase mid-single digits, on a percentage basis versus last year.
Hersheys Drops
Reeses Minis
Hersheys Syrup
PayDay
 
 
Input costs were significantly higher in the first quarter. Despite this increase, adjusted gross margin expanded slightly due to net supply chain efficiencies, some of which were related to fixed cost absorption as sales volume was greater than year ago, as well as higher levels of supply chain productivity.  Selling, marketing and administrative expenses, excluding advertising, declined as a percentage of sales versus last year resulting in an expansion of adjusted EBIT margin.
 
Given the Companys strong cash flow generation and balance sheet flexibility, in the first quarter we repurchased $100 million of our shares, completing the 2006 authorization.  We continue to focus on working capital and operating cash flow and are pleased to announce a new $250 million share repurchase authorization. This decision reflects our confidence in Hershey's marketplace position, long-term growth potential and our ability to create value for all stockholders.
 
Were very pleased with the start to 2011. The U.S. launches of and are on track.  Distribution of the and brands in select key emerging markets is progressing.  In June, we will launch , an aerated milk chocolate in both an instant consumable bar and format.  The price increase announced about a month ago will not materially impact our results in 2011. Given the timing of the announcement, net price increase benefits generated this year will partially mitigate higher than initially anticipated input costs. Additionally, direct buying customers will be able to purchase transitional amounts of product into May and we do not expect seasonal net price realization until Easter 2012.  Therefore, we expect the majority of the financial benefit from this pricing action to impact our earnings in 2012.  We will work with our retail customers this year, and into 2012, to ensure that the implementation of the price increase is supported with customer trade promotions and merchandising that continues to grow the category.  As stated earlier, in 2011, we expect advertising expense to increase mid-single digits, on a percentage basis versus last year, supporting new product launches and core brands in both the U.S. and international markets.  Despite commodity market volatility, we have visibility into our cost structure this year. While we anticipate meaningfully higher input costs, productivity and cost savings initiatives, as well as the pricing action we recently announced, are in place and we estimate that full-year adjusted gross margin will be about the same as last year.  We expect 2011 net sales, including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, and adjusted earnings per share-diluted growth to be around the top of the Companys long-term 3 to 5 percent and 6 to 8 percent objectives, respectively, West concluded.
Hersheys Drops
Reeses Minis
Hersheys
Hersheys Kisses
Hersheys Air Delight
Kisses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  In this release, Hershey references income measures which are not in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) because they exclude business realignment and impairment charges. These non-GAAP financial measures are used in evaluating results of operations for internal purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, the Company believes exclusion of such items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
Note:
 
A reconciliation is provided below of results in accordance with GAAP as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income to non-GAAP financial measures which exclude business realignment and impairment charges in 2011 associated with Project Next Century.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In 2010, the Company recorded GAAP charges of $53.9 million, or $0.14 per share-diluted, attributable to the Project Next Century program.  Additionally, in the second quarter of 2010, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $44.7 million, or $0.20 per share-diluted, related to the Godrej Hershey Ltd. joint venture. In 2011, the Company expects to record total GAAP charges of about $45 million to $55 million, or $0.13 to $0.16 per share-diluted, attributable to Project Next Century.  Below is a reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP items to the Companys 2010 adjusted earnings per share-diluted and projected adjusted earnings per share-diluted for 2011:
 
 
*Excludes business realignment and impairment charges.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This release contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are made based upon current expectations that are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging; changes in raw material and other costs; selling price increases, including volume declines associated with pricing elasticity; market demand for our new and existing products; increased marketplace competition; disruption to our supply chain; failure to successfully execute acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures; changes in governmental laws and regulations, including taxes; political, economic, and/or financial market conditions; risks and uncertainties related to our international operations; disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure; the impact of future developments related to the investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry, including risks of subsequent litigation or further government action; pension cost factors, such as actuarial assumptions, market performance and employee retirement decisions and funding requirements; the ability to implement our supply chain realignment initiatives within the anticipated timeframe in accordance with our cost estimates and our ability to achieve the expected ongoing annual savings from these initiatives; and such other matters as discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2010. All information in this press release is as of April  26, 2011. The Company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
 
 
 
 
Live Web Cast
 
 
As previously announced, the Company will hold a conference call with analysts today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call will be web cast live via Hersheys corporate website www.thehersheycompany.com. Please go to the Investor Relations section of the website for further details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


