FILE:LLL/LLL-8K-20070119164120.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
):   January 18, 2007
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrants as Specified in Charter)
DELAWARE
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
(212) 697-1111
(Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
On January 18, 2007, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing the appointment of Ralph G. DAmbrosio, age 39, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company. As a result of such appointment, Michael T. Strianese, the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer, will no longer serve as Chief Financial Officer. Mr. DAmbrosio was the Companys Vice President of Finance and Principal Accounting Officer since March 11, 2005. He became a Vice President in July 2001 and was Controller from August 2000 until March 11, 2005. The terms of his compensation arrangement are unavailable as of the date of this filing.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(D) EXHIBITS.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 19, 2007

Exhibit 99
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS PROMOTES RALPH G. DAMBROSIO  TO CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
NEW YORK, NY, January 18, 2007  L-3 Communications (NYSE: LLL) announced that Ralph G. DAmbrosio has been appointed as Chief Financial Officer (CFO), effective today. The CFO position was formerly held by Michael T. Strianese, who serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of L-3.
Ralph has been an integral part of the L-3 team since our founding in 1997, said Mr. Strianese. Over the years, he has played an invaluable role in ensuring that we achieve our financial goals and has worked closely with L-3s senior management team and with our businesses to help set the corporation on the path of future growth. Ralph has the proven skills, experience and knowledge of L-3 necessary to help the company continue to grow and create shareholder value. We look forward to his increased contributions in his new position.
Mr. DAmbrosio joined L-3 Communications in August of 1997, and has served in various roles of increasing responsibility within the companys finance department. He most recently served as L-3s Vice President of Finance and Principal Accounting Officer. Prior to joining L-3 Communications he was a senior manager in the Accounting and Auditing department at Coopers & Lybrand, LLP.
A summa cum laude graduate of Iona College, Mr. DAmbrosio received a Bachelor of Business Administration in 1989. He received his Master of Business Administration, with honors, from the Stern School of Business at New York University in 1997. Mr. DAmbrosio is also a Certified Public Accountant.
L-3 Communications Promotes Ralph DAmbrosio to Chief Financial Officer    Page 2
Headquartered in New York City, L-3 Communications is a leading provider of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems, secure communications systems, aircraft modernization, training and government services. The company is a leading merchant supplier of a broad array of high technology products, including guidance and navigation, sensors, scanners, fuzes, data links, propulsion systems, simulators, avionics, electro optics, satellite communications, electrical power equipment, encryption, intelligence systems, antennas and microwave components. L-3 also supports a variety of Homeland Security initiatives with products and services. Its customers include the Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security, selected U.S. Government intelligence agencies and aerospace prime contractors.
To learn more about L-3 Communications, please visit the companys web site at www.L-3Com.com.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this news release are forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements set forth above involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any such statement, including the risks and uncertainties discussed in the companys Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-looking Statements included in the companys recent filings, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
# # #


