FILE:LLL/LLL-8K-20080424075311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported):
April 24, 2008
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrants as Specified in Charter)
DELAWARE
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
(212) 697-1111
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - FINANCIAL INFORMATION
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On April 24, 2008, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release setting forth the Company's 2008 first quarter financial results. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
This press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99, and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Exchange Act.
SECTION 9 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(D) EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 24, 2008
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
L-3 Announces First Quarter 2008 Results
NEW YORK, NY, April 24, 2008 - L-3 Communications (NYSE: LLL) today reported diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.54 for the quarter ended March 28, 2008 (2008 first quarter), up 19% compared to $1.29 for the quarter ended March 30, 2007 (2007 first quarter). Net sales increased 6% to $3.5 billion, compared to $3.3 billion in the 2007 first quarter. First quarter 2008 net cash from operating activities was $93 million down from $224 million for the 2007 first quarter, primarily due to the timing of collections of billed receivables.
"Our businesses performed well across all segments in the 2008 first quarter," said Michael T. Strianese, president and chief executive officer of L-3. "We continued to generate strong gains in sales, operating income and EPS. We had record quarterly funded orders of $4.1 billion and ended the quarter with record funded backlog of $10.1 billion. During the 2008 first quarter, we continued to focus on shareholder value by repurchasing $283 million of our common stock and paying cash dividends of $37 million. Our Board of Directors also increased L-3's quarterly cash dividend by 20% to $0.30 per share.
We remain focused on acquiring select businesses to enhance L-3's core businesses. The acquisition of HSA Systems in Australia, a provider of geospatial, marine and electronic systems for maritime and defense customers, adds to L-3's networked undersea solutions and power and control systems, and on April 21 we acquired the Electro-Optical Systems (EOS) business from Northrop Grumman which adds image-enhancing products and technology capabilities to our EO/IR businesses."
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Results
 
First Quarter Results of Operations
. For the 2008 first quarter, consolidated net sales increased 6% compared to the 2007 first quarter driven by continued strong demand for government services, networked communication systems, base support operations, aircraft modernization and several specialized product areas, including power & control systems, microwave products, precision engagement, aviation and electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) products. The increase in sales from acquired businesses was $40 million or 1%.
For the 2008 first quarter compared to the 2007 first quarter, consolidated operating income increased 13% and operating income as a percentage of sales (operating margin) increased to 10.5% from 9.9%. As described below under Segment Results, operating margin improved for the Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (CISR), Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance and Specialized Products segments and was unchanged for Government Services.
3
Interest expense and other, net decreased for the 2008 first quarter compared to the same period last year primarily due to increased interest income on higher cash balances.
The effective tax rate for the 2008 first quarter decreased by 10 basis points compared to the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in income taxes on foreign income, partially offset by the expiration of the U.S. Federal research and experimentation tax credit as of Dec. 31, 2007.
Orders
. Funded orders for the 2008 first quarter increased 5% to $4.1 billion from $3.9 billion for the 2007 first quarter. Funded backlog increased 6% to $10.1 billion from $9.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. Highlights of contract awards for the first quarter of 2008 include:
 
 
 
 
 
Cash flow
. Net cash from operating activities for the 2008 first quarter was $93 million compared with $224 million for the 2007 first quarter. Free cash flow
(1)
for the 2008 first quarter was $55 million compared with $196 million for the 2007 first quarter. The decrease in net cash from operating activities for the 2008 first quarter compared to the 2007 first quarter was primarily due to the timing of collections of billed receivables. For the 2008 first quarter, billed receivables increased $151 million, compared to a billed receivables reduction of $20 million for the 2007 first quarter.
The company's cash and cash equivalents decreased by $244 million to $536 million at March 28, 2008, from $780 million at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease was principally due to cash used for share repurchases and dividends, partially offset by the company's 2008 first quarter free cash flow.
Total debt at March 28, 2008 remained at $4.5 billion compared to Dec. 31, 2007. Available borrowings under the company's revolving credit facilities, after reduction for outstanding letters of credit, were $797 million at March 28, 2008. Shareholders' equity decreased by $65 million to $5,924 million at March 28, 2008 from $5,989 million at Dec. 31, 2007.
Segment
R
esults
CISR
3
 
CISR net sales for the 2008 first quarter increased by 2% compared to the 2007 first quarter. Higher sales due to continued demand from the Department of Defense (DoD) for networked communication systems and increased sales volume for Secure Terminal Equipment (STE) were largely offset by lower airborne ISR systems sales due to timing of deliveries.
3
CISR operating income for the 2008 first quarter increased by 28% compared to the 2007 first quarter primarily because of higher operating margin. Operating margin increased by 220 basis points of which 140 basis points was primarily due to improved contract performance on airborne ISR systems and networked communication systems, 50 basis points was due to the higher STE sales, and 30 basis points was due to lower development costs for new secure communications products.
3
Government Services
 
Government Services net sales for the 2008 first quarter increased by 8% compared to the 2007 first quarter, driven by volume increases for several services including training, linguists, information technology and other support services, primarily for the U.S. Army and U.S. Special Operations Command. The Linguist contract generated sales of $183 million for the 2008 first quarter. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses was $11.5 million or 1%.
______________
Note:
 
 
 
 
 
Government Services operating income for the 2008 first quarter increased by 8% compared to the 2007 first quarter primarily because of higher sales volume. Operating margin for the 2008 first quarter was unchanged compared to the 2007 first quarter. A 20 basis points improvement in margin primarily due to higher sales volume and improved contract performance was offset by approximately $2.1 million, or 20 basis points for severance and other costs related to continuing business realignment and consolidation activities that began in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M)
 
AM&M net sales for the 2008 first quarter increased by 3% compared to the 2007 first quarter, primarily driven by sales for the Joint Cargo Aircraft (JCA) contract and base support services. These increases were partially offset by lower sales for the Canadian Maritime Helicopter program due to completion of certain milestones and lower C-130 aircraft modification sales for international customers due to contracts nearing completion.
AM&M operating income for the 2008 first quarter increased by 4% compared to the 2007 first quarter primarily because of higher sales volume and higher operating margin. Operating margin increased by 10 basis points primarily from performance improvements mostly due to sales price increases.
Specialized Products
 
Specialized Products net sales for the 2008 first quarter increased by 9% compared to the 2007 first quarter reflecting higher sales volume primarily for: (1) power & control systems due to higher volume for commercial shipbuilding, (2) microwave products due to deliveries of mobile communications systems for the U.S. military, (3) precision engagement primarily related to new contracts and increased demand for premium fuzing products and higher volume for satellite navigation systems, and (4) aviation and EO/IR products primarily due to deliveries on existing contracts. These increases were partially offset by a decrease for combat vehicle propulsion systems due to timing of deliveries, and for displays due to contracts nearing completion. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses was $28.9 million or 3%.
Specialized Products operating income for the 2008 first quarter increased by 15% compared to the 2007 first quarter primarily because of higher sales volume and higher operating margin. Operating margin for the 2008 first quarter increased by 60 basis points of which 70 basis points was primarily because of improved contract performance and higher sales. Acquired businesses reduced operating margin by 10 basis points.
 
 
Financial
Outlook
Based on information known as of today, including completed business acquisitions, the company revised its consolidated and segment financial guidance for the year ending Dec. 31, 2008, as presented in the tables below. The changes to the 2008 financial guidance are primarily due to (1) the Linguist contract extension and the related GLS subcontract, and (2) the acquisition of the EOS business on April 21, 2008.
 
 
 
All guidance amounts for the year ending Dec. 31, 2008 are approximate estimates subject to the "Forward-Looking Statements" cautionary language on the following page. The current 2008 guidance includes $320 million of net sales for the Linguist-Iraq contract and the related GLS subcontract. The 2008 guidance also includes approximately $240 million of sales growth from business acquisitions. The net cash from operating activities and free cash flow guidance for the year ending Dec. 31, 2008 are before any possible payment for an adverse jury verdict of up to $76 million, net of taxes.
 
 
 
Conference Call
In conjunction with this release, L-3 will host a conference call today, Thursday, April 24, 2008 at 11:00 a.m. EDT that will be simultaneously broadcast live over the Internet. Michael T. Strianese, president and chief executive officer, Ralph G. D'Ambrosio, vice president and chief financial officer, and Karen C. Tripp, vice president of corporate communications, will host the call.
 
Listeners may access the conference call live over the Internet at the following web address:
http://www.videonewswire.com/event.asp?id=46868
Please allow fifteen minutes prior to the call to visit this site to download and install any necessary audio software. The archived version of the call may be accessed at this site or by dialing (800) 642-1687 (passcode: 39991688), beginning approximately two hours after the call ends, and will be available until the company's next quarterly earnings release.
Headquartered in New York City, L-3 employs over 64,000 people worldwide and is a prime system contractor in aircraft modernization and maintenance, C
3
ISR (Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance) systems and government services. L-3 is also a leading provider of high technology products, subsystems and systems. The Company reported 2007 sales of $14 billion.
To learn more about L-3, please visit the company's web site at
www.L-3Com.com
.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the matters discussed in this press release that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as expects,'' anticipates,'' intends,'' plans,'' believes,'' estimates,'' and similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. Although we believe that these statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, including projections of total sales growth, sales growth from business acquisitions, organic sales growth, consolidated operating margins, total segment operating margins, interest expense, earnings, cash flow, research and development costs, working capital, capital expenditures and other projections, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, and therefore, we can give no assurance that these statements will be achieved. Such statements will also be influenced by factors which include, among other things: our dependence on the defense industry and the business risks peculiar to that industry; our reliance on contracts with a limited number of agencies of, or contractors to, the U.S. Government and the possibility of termination of government contracts by unilateral government action or for failure to perform; the extensive legal and regulatory requirements surrounding our contracts with the U.S. or foreign governments and the results of any investigation of our contracts undertaken by the U.S. or foreign governments; our ability to retain our existing business and related contracts (revenue arrangements); our ability to successfully compete for and win new business and related contracts (revenue arrangements) and to win re-competitions of our existing contracts; our ability to identify and acquire additional businesses in the future with terms that are attractive to L-3 and to integrate acquired business operations; our ability to maintain and improve our consolidated operating margin and total segment operating margin in future periods; our ability to obtain future government contracts (revenue arrangements) on a timely basis; the availability of government funding or cost-cutting initiatives and changes in customer requirements
 
 
 
for our products and services; our significant amount of debt and the restrictions contained in our debt agreements; our ability to continue to retain and train our existing employees and to recruit and hire new qualified and skilled employees as well as our ability to retain and hire employees with U.S. Government Security clearances; actual future interest rates, volatility and other assumptions used in the determination of pension benefits and stock options amounts; our collective bargaining agreements, our ability to successfully negotiate contracts with labor unions and our ability to favorably resolve labor disputes should they arise; the business, economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; our ability to perform contracts on schedule; events beyond our control such as acts of terrorism; our international operations; our extensive use of fixed-price type contracts as compared to cost-reimbursable type and time-and-material type contracts; the rapid change of technology and high level of competition in the defense industry and the commercial industries in which our businesses participate; our introduction of new products into commercial markets or our investments in civil and commercial products or companies; the outcome of litigation matters and government investigations; costs or difficulties related to the integration of acquired businesses; anticipated cost savings from business acquisitions not fully realized or realized within the expected time frame; Titan's compliance with its plea agreement and consent to entry of judgment with the U.S. Government relating to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, including Titan's ability to maintain its export licenses; ultimate resolution of contingent matters, claims and investigations relating to acquired businesses, and the impact on the final purchase price allocations; competitive pressure among companies in our industry; and the fair values of our assets, which can be impaired or reduced by other factors, some of which are discussed above.
For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impair our results of operations or financial condition, see Part I  Item 1A  Risk Factors'' and Note 17 to our audited consolidated financial statements, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007.
Our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results or developments may differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. As for the forward-looking statements that relate to future financial results and other projections, actual results will be different due to the inherent uncertainties of estimates, forecasts and projections and may be better or worse than projected and such differences could be material. Given these uncertainties, you should not place any reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements also represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to these forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this press release to reflect events or changes in circumstances or changes in expectations or the occurrence of anticipated events.
# # #
 Financial Tables Follow 
 
 
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, INC.
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share data)
 
______________
 
 
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, INC.
UNAUDITED SELECT FINANCIAL DATA
(In millions)
 
 
 
 
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, INC.
UNAUDITED PRELIMINARY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)
 
 
 
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, INC.
UNAUDITED PRELIMINARY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
 
 
 
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, INC.
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions)
 
______________
 
 


