FILE:LLL/LLL-8K-20090715160126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory                  Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On July 14, 2009, the Board of Directors of each of L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. and L-3 Communications Corporation (together, the "Company") elected Lewis Kramer to serve as a Class III director of the Company. Mr. Kramer was appointed to serve on the Audit Committee. The Company expects Mr. Kramer to stand for election at the annual meeting of stockholders in April 2010.
Mr. Kramer's compensation for his services as a director will be consistent with that of the Company's other non-employee directors. Other than the standard compensation arrangements, there are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Kramer and any other person pursuant to which he was elected as a director. Mr. Kramer is not a party to any transaction with the Company that would require disclosure under item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
     L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. issued a press release on June 14, 2009, announcing the election of Mr. Kramer. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) EXHIBITS
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 15, 2009
 
     EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
NEW YORK, July 14, 2009  L-3 Communications (NYSE: LLL) announced today that Lewis Kramer has been elected to its board of directors. He will also serve on the board's Audit Committee. Following this election, the company's board has nine members, eight of whom are non-employee directors.
Mr. Kramer, age 61, completed a nearly 40-year career at Ernst & Young before retiring in June 2009. A partner since 1981, he most recently served as the Global Client Service Partner for worldwide external audit and all other services for major clients including Verizon Communications. He previously was Ernst & Young's National Director of Audit Services and served on the firm's United States Executive Board.
"Lew Kramer's broad-based experience in global finance, governance and strategy make him an outstanding addition to our board," said Michael T. Strianese, L-3's chairman, president and chief executive officer.
A graduate of Bernard Baruch College, Mr. Kramer also attended the Advanced Management Program of the Harvard Business School. Among other affiliations, Mr. Kramer serves on the board of the New York March of Dimes and is the president of United Neighborhood Houses, a not-for-profit organization. He also remains active with the Baruch College Audit Advisory Group.
Headquartered in New York City, L-3 Communications employs over 66,000 people worldwide and is prime contractor in aircraft modernization and maintenance, CISR (Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance) systems and government services. L-3 is also a leading provider of high technology products, subsystems and systems. The company reported 2008 sales of $14.9 billion
3
To learn more about L-3, please visit the company's Web site at . L-3 uses its Web site as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding L-3 is routinely posted on the company's Web site and is readily accessible.
www.L-3com.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this news release are
 
Page 2
L-3 Elects Lewis Kramer to its Board of Directors
forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "will," "could" and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements set forth above involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any such statement, including the risks and uncertainties discussed in the company's Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-looking Statements included in the company's recent filings, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.


