FILE:LLL/LLL-8K-20101027160628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 5  VOTING
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
Item 5.03
On October 26, 2010, the Board of Directors of L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") approved amendments to, and restated, the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws, which changes were effective immediately upon approval. Article II, Section 2.6 of the Amended and Restated Bylaws was amended to provide for a plurality voting standard for the election of directors in contested elections, which are defined as elections where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected. Previously, the Amended and Restated Bylaws provided that all elections would be decided by a majority of votes cast.
The foregoing summary of the amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Bylaws which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii).
 
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(D) EXHIBITS
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 27, 2010
 

Exhibit 3(ii)
          Section 1.1 . The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19801.
Delaware Office
          Section 1.2 The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Other Offices.
          Section 1.3 The books and records of the Corporation may be kept outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records.
          Section 2.1 The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date, and at such place and time, as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting.
          Section 2.2 . Special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, or the President, and shall be called by the Chairman of the Board or the President at the request in writing of a majority of the Board of Directors. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting.
Special Meeting
          Section 2.3 The Board of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders. If no designation is made by the Board of Directors, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
Place of Meeting.
          Section 2.4 Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of special meetings, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be prepared and delivered by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present.
Notice of Meeting.
 
Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
          Section 2.5 . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business. The chairman of the meeting or a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum and Adjournment
          Section 2.6 . Except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any questions brought before any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by a majority vote of the number of shares cast with respect to the matter in question; provided, that in the case of the election of directors, if, as of the tenth (10) day preceding the date the Corporation first transmits its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders of the Corporation, or, at any time thereafter, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast. For purposes of this Section, a majority vote of the number of shares cast means that the number of votes cast "for" must exceed the number of votes cast "against." An abstention or broker non-vote will not count as a vote "for" or "against" the matter in question. Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted on after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in his discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
Voting
th
          Section 2.7
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls.
          (A) The Board of Directors by resolution may appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
          (B) The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
          Section 2.8
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
          (A) . (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) delivered pursuant to Section 2.4 of these Bylaws, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote on such election or such other business at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph (A) of this Bylaw and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
Annual Meetings
          (2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, and, in the case of business other than nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors, such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be
 
delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the current year's annual meeting is advanced by more than twenty (20) days, or delayed by more than seventy (70) days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such current year's annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these Bylaws, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination or proposal between or among such stockholder and such beneficial owner, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing, (iv) a description of any agreement, arrangement and/or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has or have been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and such beneficial owners, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder and such beneficial owner, with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation, (v) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (vi) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (A) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (B) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
          (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Section 2.8 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 2.8 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
          (B) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Article II, Section 2.4 of these Bylaws. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote on such election at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.8 and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder
Special Meetings of Stockholders.
 
entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder delivers a written notice setting forth the information that would be required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Section 2.8 if such nomination were brought by the stockholder before an annual meeting, to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120 day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90 day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.
th
th
          (C) (1) A stockholder providing notice of a proposed nomination for election to the Board or other business proposed to be brought before a meeting (whether given pursuant to paragraph (A)(2) or paragraph (B) of this Section 2.8) shall update and supplement such notice from time to time to the extent necessary so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting and as of the date that is 15 days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof; such update and supplement shall be delivered in writing to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than 5 days after the record date for the meeting (in the case of any update and supplement required to be made as of the record date), and not later than 10 days prior to the date for the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof (in the case of any update and supplement required to be made as of 15 days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof).
General.
          (2) The Corporation may require any proposed nominee for election to the Board of Directors to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
          (3) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.8 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.8. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.8 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section 2.8, to declare that such defective nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.8, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 2.8, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
          (4) For purposes of this Section 2.8, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed or furnished by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
          (5) For purposes of this Bylaw, no adjournment or postponement or notice of adjournment or postponement of any meeting shall be deemed to constitute a new notice of such meeting for purposes of this Section 2.8, and in order for any notification required to be delivered by a stockholder pursuant to this Section 2.8 to be timely, such notification must be delivered within the periods set forth above with respect to the originally scheduled meeting.
          (6) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.8, a stockholder
 
shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.8; provided however, that any references in these Bylaws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to this Section 2.8 (including paragraphs (A)(1)(c) and (B) hereof), and compliance with paragraphs (A)(1)(c) and (B) of this Section 2.8 shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business. Nothing in this Section 2.8 shall apply to the right, if any, of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock (as defined in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation) to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation.
          Section 3.1 The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers.
          Section 3.2 The number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by Board of Directors. The directors are divided into classes, each class to consist of one-third of the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors. The term of office of those of the first class shall expire at the annual meeting next following the first election held after the adoption of this Bylaw; the term of office of those of the second class shall expire one year thereafter; and the term of office of those of the third class shall expire two years thereafter. At each annual meeting following the annual meeting at which this Bylaw shall be adopted, the directors elected shall be elected for a full term of three years to succeed those whose terms expire. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified, or until his resignation, removal, or death.
Number, Tenure and Qualifications.
          Section 3.3 A meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately prior to or after, and at the same place as, each annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
Regular Meetings.
          Section 3.4 Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
Special Meetings.
          Section 3.5 Notice of any special meeting shall be given to each director at his business or residence in writing or by telephone or facsimile or electronic communication. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least three days before such meeting. If by telephone, facsimile or electronic communication, the notice shall be given at least twenty-four hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws, as provided under Section 7.1 of Article VII hereof. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in writing, either before or after such meeting.
Notice.
          Section 3.6 A majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum.
 
          Section 3.7 Unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office, an increase in the authorized number of directors or other cause may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence of this Section 3.7 shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies.
          Section 3.8 The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board of Directors, designate an Executive Committee to exercise, subject to applicable provisions of law, all or part of the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation when the Board is not in session, including without limitation the power to declare dividends and to authorize the issuance of the Corporation's capital stock, and may, by resolution similarly adopted, designate one or more other committees. The Executive Committee and each such other committee shall consist of two or more directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee may, to the extent permitted by law, exercise such powers and shall have such responsibilities as shall be specified in the designating resolution. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Each committee shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board when required.
Executive and Other Committees.
          A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 3.5 of these Bylaws. The Board shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Except as otherwise provided by law, the presence of a majority of the then appointed members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by that committee, and in every case where a quorum is present the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the committee present shall be the act of the committee.
          Section 4.1 The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a President, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper, including one or more vice presidents, assistant treasurers and assistant secretaries. In addition, the Board of Directors at any time and from time to time may elect a Chairman of the Board from among its members. A director serving as Chairman of the Board may be, but need not be, an elected officer. All officers chosen by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors.
Elected Officers.
          Section 4.2 The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held immediately prior to or after each annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Subject to Section 4.5 of these By-Laws, each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign.
Election and Term of Office.
          Section 4.3 The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of stockholders and Directors and all other notices required by law or by these Bylaws, and in case of his or her absence or refusal or neglect so to do, any such notice may be given by any person thereunto directed by the Chairman of the Board or the President, or by the Board of Directors, upon whose request the meeting is called as provided in these Bylaws. The Secretary shall record all the proceedings of the meetings of
Secretary.
 
the Board of Directors, any committees thereof and the stockholders of the Corporation in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President. The Secretary shall have the custody of the seal of the Corporation and see that the same is affixed to all instruments requiring it.
          Section 4.4 The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate account of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in the depository or depositaries of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements. The Treasurer shall render to the Chairman of the Board, the President and the Board of Directors, whenever requested, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
Treasurer.
          Section 4.5 Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed by a majority of the Board of Directors, with or without cause, whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his successor, his death, his resignation or his removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Removal.
          Section 4.6 A newly created office and a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
Vacancies.
          Section 5.1 The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or the President or a vice president, and by the Treasurer or an assistant treasurer, or the Secretary or an assistant secretary, of the Corporation certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation. Any of or all the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.
Form.
provided
 
          Section 6.1 The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year.
          Section 6.2 The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Certificate of Incorporation.
Dividends.
          Section 6.3 . The corporate seal shall be in such form as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
Seal
          Section 6.4 Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or the Board of Directors need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
Waiver of Notice.
          Section 6.5 The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be made annually.
Audits.
          Section 6.6 Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by serving written notice of such resignation on the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, unless otherwise specified in said notice. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
Resignations.
          Section 6.7 (A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, against all expense, liability and loss (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (B) of this Section 6.7 of this Bylaw with respect to proceedings seeking to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Indemnification and Insurance.
     (B) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Section 6.7 of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within thirty days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to
 
indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
     (C) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
     (D) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     (E) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors, officers and employees of the Corporation.
     (F) The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, such advancement shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
     (G) For the avoidance of doubt, claimant's right to indemnification and advancement of expenses provided under this Article VI shall (i) vest at the time that such claimant becomes a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or at the time such claimant becomes a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, at the request of the Corporation and (ii) continue as to the claimant even though he may have ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation.
     (H) Any amendment or modification of these Bylaws affecting a claimant's right to indemnification or the advancement of expenses provided under this Article VI shall not alter the claimant's right to indemnification or the advancement of expenses with respect to such claimant's conduct prior to the amendment or modification, without the express written consent of such claimant.
          Section 7.1 These Bylaws may be altered, amended, rescinded or repealed in whole or in part, or new Bylaws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors or a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders on the matter, provided that the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Board of Directors or of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders on the matter is required to amend Sections 2.5, 2.6, 3.2, 3.6, 3.7, 6.2, 6.7 and 7.1 of the Bylaws, and provided that notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting.
Amendments.


