FILE:LLL/LLL-8K-20100524154257.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.03. CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT.
     L-3 Communications Corporation (the "Company"), a wholly owned subsidiary of L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc., has completed its offering of $800,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "Notes"). In connection with the offering, on May 21, 2010, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company entered into an indenture (the "Base Indenture") with The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture also entered into on May 21, 2010 (the "First Supplemental Indenture", and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture").
     Pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Notes: (i) were issued at a price to the public of 99.679% of their principal amount, (ii) will bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.750% per year, payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning January 15, 2011 and (iii) will mature on July 15, 2020. The initial interest payment will include accrued interest from May 21, 2010.
     The Notes are unsecured senior obligations of the Company and will rank equal in right of payment with all of the Company's existing and future senior indebtedness. In addition, the Notes are guaranteed on an unsecured senior basis by each of the Company's material domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any of its other indebtedness.
     The Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time or from time to time, as a whole or in part, at its option at the price and on the terms set forth in the Indenture. In addition, upon the occurrence of a "Change of Control Triggering Event," as defined in the Indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
     The Indenture also contains covenants that, among other things, limit the Company's ability and the ability of certain of its subsidiaries to create or assume certain liens or enter into sale and leaseback transactions, and the Company's ability to engage in mergers or consolidations or transfer or lease all or substantially all of our assets. Finally, the Indenture contains customary events of default.
     The foregoing description is qualified by reference to the Base Indenture and First Supplemental Indenture, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 8.01. OTHER EVENTS.
     On May 18, 2010, in connection with the offering of the Notes described above, the Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Agreement") with Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as the representatives for the several underwriters named in Schedule A of the Agreement. A copy of the Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference
 
herein. Further information concerning the Notes and related matters is set forth in the Company's Prospectus Supplement, dated May 18, 2010, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 19, 2010.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     (D) EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 24, 2010
 

Exhibit 4.1 EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
          Indenture dated as of May 21, 2010 among L-3 Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Company"), the guarantors listed on the signature pages hereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee ("Trustee").
          Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders as defined below of the Securities (or applicable Series thereof) issued under this Indenture.
          Section 1.1 .
Definitions
          "Additional Amounts" means any additional amounts which are required hereby or by any Security, under circumstances specified herein or therein, to be paid by the Company in respect of certain taxes imposed on Holders specified herein or therein and which are owing to such Holders.
          "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; provided that beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a Person shall be deemed to be control.
          "Agent" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent.
          "Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper in an official language of the country of publication customarily published at least once a day for at least five days in each calendar week and of general circulation in the place in connection with which the term is used. If it shall be impractical in the opinion of the Trustee to make any publication of any notice required hereby in an Authorized Newspaper, any publication or other notice in lieu thereof that is made or given by the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient publication of such notice.
          "Attributable Debt" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, at any time of determination, the present value at that time of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended. Such present value will be calculated using a discount rate equal to the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP.
          "Bankruptcy Law" means title 11, U.S. Code or any similar Federal or State law for the relief of debtors.
          "Bearer Security" means any Security, including any interest coupon appertaining thereto, that does not provide for the identification of the Holder thereof.
          "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any authorized committee thereof.
          "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been adopted by the Board of Directors or pursuant to authorization by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of the certificate and delivered to the Trustee.
          "Business Day" means, unless otherwise provided by Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture hereto for a particular Series, any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in The City of New York on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close.
          "Capital Stock" means (i) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock, (ii) in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock, (iii) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests (whether general or limited) and (iv) any other interest or
 
participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person.
          "Company" means the party named as such above until a successor replaces it pursuant to Article V hereof and thereafter means the successor.
          "Company Order" means a written order signed in the name of the Company by two Officers of the Company.
          "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" of any Person as of any date means the total assets of such Person and its Subsidiaries as of the most recent fiscal quarter end for which a consolidated balance sheet of such Person and its Subsidiaries is available as of that date, minus all current liabilities of such Person and its Subsidiaries reflected on such balance sheet and minus total goodwill and other intangible assets of such Person and its Subsidiaries reflected on such balance sheet, all calculated on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
          "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the dated hereof is located at 525 WilliamPenn Place, 38th Floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15259, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
          "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
          "Default" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
          "Depository" means, with respect to the Securities of any Series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, the Person designated as Depository for such Series by the Company, which Depository shall be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act; and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Depository" as used with respect to the Securities of any Series shall mean the Depository with respect to the Securities of such Series.
          "Discount Security" means any Security that provides for an amount less than the stated principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.2.
          "Dollars" and "$" means the currency of The United States of America.
          "Domestic Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary of the Company (other than an Immaterial Subsidiary) that is organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof, the District of Columbia or any territory thereof.
          "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
          "Foreign Currency" means any currency or currency unit issued by a government other than the government of The United States of America.
          "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect from time to time.
          "Global Security" or "Global Securities" means a Security or Securities, as the case may be, in the form established pursuant to Section 2.2 evidencing all or part of a Series of Securities, issued to the Depository for such Series or its nominee, and registered in the name of such Depository or nominee.
          "Government Securities" means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America, and the payment for which the United States pledges its full faith and credit.
 
          "Guarantee" means a guarantee (other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business), direct or indirect, in any manner (including, without limitation, letters of credit and reimbursement agreements in respect thereof), of all or any part of any Indebtedness.
          "Guarantor" means each Person listed on the signature page hereto and each Domestic Subsidiary of the Company that executes a Guarantee, either on the date hereof or at any future time in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and their respective successors and assigns; provided, that upon the release and discharge of such Person from its guarantee in accordance with this Indenture, such Person shall cease to be a Guarantor.
          "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered or the holder of a Bearer Security.
          "Immaterial Subsidiary" means, as of any date, any Subsidiary whose total assets, as of that date, are less than $20.0 million and whose total revenues for the most recent 12-month period do not exceed $20.0 million.
          "Indebtedness" means, with respect to any Person, obligations of such Person for borrowed money (including, without limitation, indebtedness for borrowed money evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or similar instruments). For the avoidance of doubt, bankers' acceptances and obligations of a Person under currency exchange or interest rate swap agreements (or other agreements or arrangements designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in currency exchange rates or interest rates) are not Indebtedness.
          "Indenture" means this Indenture as amended or supplemented from time to time and shall include the form and terms of particular Series of Securities established as contemplated hereunder.
          "interest" with respect to any Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
          "Issue Date" means with respect to each Series of Securities the first date such Securities are issued under this Indenture.
          "Lien" means any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or other encumbrance of any kind, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statute) of any jurisdiction.
          "Maturity," when used with respect to any Security or installment of principal thereof, means the date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, notice of option to elect repayment or otherwise.
          "Obligations" means any principal, premium, interest (including interest accruing on or after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization, whether or not a claim for post-filing interest is allowed in such proceeding), penalties, fees, charges, expenses, indemnifications, reimbursement obligations, damages, guarantees and other liabilities or amounts payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness or in respect thereto.
          "Officer" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person.
          "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by two Officers, one of whom (in the case of an Officers' Certificate delivered under Section 4.5 hereof) must be the Company's principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer or the treasurer.
          "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion acceptable to the Trustee of legal counsel. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company.
          "Permitted Liens" means, with respect to each Series of Securities:
 
     (a) Liens securing Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, which Indebtedness exists on the applicable Issue Date;
     (b) Liens securing Indebtedness of any Person that (i) is acquired by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after the applicable Issue Date, (ii) is merged or amalgamated with or into the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after the applicable Issue Date or (iii) becomes consolidated in the financial statements of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after the applicable Issue Date in accordance with GAAP; that in each case contemplated by this clause (b), such Indebtedness was not incurred in contemplation of such acquisition, merger, amalgamation or consolidation and is only secured by Liens on the Capital Stock and assets of, the Person (and Subsidiaries of the Person) acquired by, or merged or amalgamated with or into, or consolidated in the financial statements of, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
provided, however,
     (c) Liens securing Indebtedness (including assumed Indebtedness) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries incurred to finance (whether prior to or within 365 days after) the acquisition, construction or improvement of assets (whether through the direct purchase of assets or through the purchase of the Capital Stock of any Person owning such assets or through an acquisition of any such Person by merger); that such Indebtedness is only secured by Liens on the Capital Stock and assets acquired, constructed or improved in connection with such financing (including the Capital Stock and assets of any Subsidiary of any such acquired Person);
provided, however,
     (d) Liens to secure any extension, renewal, refinancing or refunding (or successive extensions, renewals, refinancings or refundings), in whole or in part, of any Indebtedness secured by Liens referred to in clauses (a)-(c) above or clause (j) below or Liens created in connection with any amendment, consent or waiver relating to such Indebtedness, so long as such Lien is limited to all or part of substantially the same property which secured the Lien extended, renewed or replaced, the amount of Indebtedness secured is not increased (other than by the amount equal to any costs and expenses (including any premiums, fees or penalties) incurred in connection with any extension, renewal, refinancing or refunding) and the Indebtedness so secured does not exceed the fair market value (as determined by the Company's Board of Directors) of the assets subject to such Liens at the time of such extension, renewal, refinancing or refunding, or such amendment, consent or waiver, as the case may be;
     (e) Liens to secure intercompany Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
     (f) Liens to secure the performance of statutory obligations, insurance, surety or appeal bonds, workers compensation obligations, performance bonds or other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business (including Liens to secure letters of credit and reimbursement obligations with respect thereto issued to assure payment of such obligations);
     (g) Liens created for the benefit of (or to secure) the Securities of such Series (or the Guarantees);
     (h) Liens in favor of the Trustee granted in accordance with this Indenture;
     (i) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or claims that are not yet delinquent or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and diligently concluded, that any reserve or other appropriate provision as is required in conformity with GAAP has been made therefor; and
provided
     (j) other Liens, in addition to those permitted in clauses (a) through (i) above, securing Indebtedness having an aggregate principal amount (including all Indebtedness incurred pursuant to clause (d) above to renew, refund, refinance, replace, defease or discharge any Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (j)), measured as of the date of the incurrence of any such Indebtedness (giving effect to the application of the proceeds therefrom and any transaction in connection with which such Indebtedness is being incurred), taken together with the amount of all Attributable Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries at that time outstanding relating to Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted under Section 4.9, not to exceed the greater of (a) 15% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets measured as of the date of the incurrence of any such Indebtedness (giving effect to the application of the proceeds therefrom and any transaction in connection with which such Indebtedness is being incurred) or (b) $1.5 billion.
pro forma
pro forma
     For purposes of clause (j) of this definition of Permitted Liens, (i) with respect to any revolving credit facility secured by a Lien, the full amount of Indebtedness that may be borrowed thereunder will be deemed to be incurred at the time any revolving credit commitment thereunder is first extended or increased and will not be deemed to be incurred when such revolving credit facility is
 
drawn upon and (ii) if a Lien of the Company or any of its Wholly Owned Domestic Subsidiaries is granted to secure Indebtedness that was previously unsecured, such Indebtedness will be deemed to be incurred as of the date such Indebtedness is secured.
          "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, limited liability company, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
          "principal" of a Security means the principal of the Security plus, when appropriate, the premium, if any, on, and any Additional Amounts in respect of, the Security.
          "Principal Property" means any building, structure or other facility located within the United States (other than its territories and possessions) and owned by the Company or any Wholly Owned Domestic Subsidiary, the book value of which is not less than 0.5% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets. For purposes of this definition, book value will be measured at the time the relevant Lien is being created or, in the case of any Lien incurred pursuant to clause (j) of the definition of "Permitted Liens," at the time the relevant secured Indebtedness is deemed to be incurred.
          "Responsible Officer" means any officer of the Trustee in its Corporate Trust Office who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his or her knowledge of and familiarity with a particular subject.
          "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency.
          "Securities" means the senior unsecured debentures, senior unsecured notes or other senior unsecured debt instruments of the Company of any Series authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
          "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
          "Series" or "Series of Securities" means each series of debentures, notes or other debt instruments of the Company created pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2 hereof.
          "Significant Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary which is a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
          "Stated Maturity" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the documentation governing such Indebtedness, and will not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
          "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person (or a combination thereof); and (ii) any partnership (A) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person or (B) the only general partners of which are such Person or of one or more Subsidiaries of such Person (or any combination thereof).
          "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of this Indenture; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "TIA" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act as so amended.
          "Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any Series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that Series.
          "Wholly Owned Domestic Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any Domestic Subsidiary of such Person, the Capital Stock of which is 100% owned and controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more other Wholly Owned Domestic Subsidiaries, by such Person.
 
          Section 1.2 .
Other Definitions
          Section 1.3 .
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
          Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
          "Commission" means the SEC.
          "indenture securities" means the Securities.
          "indenture security holder" means a Holder.
          "indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture.
          "indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee.
          "obligor" on the indenture securities means the Company, any successor obligor upon the Securities or a Guarantor.
          All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA and not otherwise defined herein are used herein as so defined.
          Section 1.4 .
Rules of Construction
          Unless the context otherwise requires:
          (a) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
          (b) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
          (c) references to "generally accepted accounting principles" and "GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in effect as of the time when and for the period as to which such accounting principles are to be applied;
          (d) "or" is not exclusive;
          (e) "will" shall be interpreted to express a command;
          (f) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
          (g) provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and
          (h) references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act will be deemed to include substitute, replacement of successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time.
 
          Section 2.1 .
Issuable in Series
          The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more Series. All Securities of a Series shall be identical except as may be set forth in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate detailing the adoption of the terms thereof pursuant to the authority granted under a Board Resolution. In the case of Securities of a Series to be issued from time to time, the Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture detailing the adoption of the terms thereof pursuant to authority granted under a Board Resolution may provide for the method by which specified terms (such as interest rate, maturity date, record date or date from which interest shall accrue) are to be determined. Securities may differ between Series in respect of any matters, provided that all Series of Securities shall be equally and ratably entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
          Section 2.2 .
Establishment of Terms of Series of Securities
          At or prior to the issuance of any Securities within a Series, the following shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth or determined in the manner provided in a Board Resolution or in a supplemental indenture or in an Officers' Certificate pursuant to authority granted under a Board Resolution:
     (a) the title of the Series (which shall distinguish the Securities of that particular Series from the Securities of any other Series);
     (b) the price or prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount thereof) at which the Securities of the Series will be issued;
     (c) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the Series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the Series pursuant to Section 2.7, 2.8, 2.11, 3.6 or 9.6);
     (d) the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the Series is payable;
     (e) the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable) per annum or, if applicable, the method used to determine such rate or rates (including, but not limited to, any currency exchange rate, commodity, commodity index, stock exchange index or financial index) at which the Securities of the Series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which such interest, if any, shall accrue, or the method for determining the date or dates from which interest will accrue, the date or dates on which such interest, if any, shall commence and be payable and any regular record date for the interest payable on any interest payment date;
     (f) the manner in which the amounts of payment of principal of or interest, if any, on the Securities of the Series will be determined, if such amounts may be determined by reference to an index based on a currency or currencies or by reference to a currency exchange rate, commodity, commodity index, stock exchange index or financial index;
     (g) if other than the Corporate Trust Office, the place or places where the principal of, premium, if any and interest, if any, on the Securities of the Series shall be payable, where the Securities of such Series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such Series and this Indenture may be served, and the method of such payment, if by wire transfer, mail or other means;
     (h) if applicable, the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which the Securities of the Series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;
     (i) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase the Securities of the Series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the Series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
     (j) if other than denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof, the denominations in which the Securities of the Series shall be issuable;
 
     (k) the forms of the Securities of the Series in bearer or fully registered form (and, if in fully registered form, whether the Securities of the Series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of a Global Security or Securities, and the terms and conditions, if any, upon which such Global Security or Securities may be exchanged in whole or in part for other individual Securities);
     (l) any depositories, interest rate calculation agents, exchange rate calculation agents or other agents with respect to Securities of such Series if other than those appointed herein;
     (m) the Trustee for the series of Securities, if other than the Trustee named on the first page hereof or its Successors;
     (n) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of the Securities of the Series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.2;
     (o) any addition or deletion to or change in the covenants set forth in Articles IV or V which applies to Securities of the Series;
     (p) any addition or deletion to or change in the Events of Default which applies to any Securities of the Series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 6.2;
     (q) if other than Dollars, the currency of denomination of the Securities of the Series, which may be any Foreign Currency, and if such currency of denomination is a composite currency, the agency or organization, if any, responsible for overseeing such composite currency;
     (r) if other than Dollars, the designation of the currency, currencies or currency units in which payment of the principal of and any premium and interest, if any, on the Securities of the Series will be made;
     (s) if payments of principal of premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Securities of the Series are to be made in one or more currencies or currency units other than that or those in which such Securities are denominated, the manner in which the exchange rate with respect to such payments will be determined;
     (t) the securities exchange(s) on which the Securities of the Series will be listed, if any;
     (u) additions or deletions to or changes in the provisions relating to covenant defeasance and legal defeasance;
     (v) additions or deletions to or changes in the provisions relating to satisfaction and discharge of the indenture;
     (w) additions or deletions to or changes in the provisions relating to the modification of the indenture both with and without the consent of holders of Securities of the Series issued under the indenture; and
     (x) any other terms of the Securities of the Series (which terms may modify, supplement or delete any provision of this Indenture with respect to such Series; provided, however, that no such term may modify or delete any provision hereof if imposed by the TIA; and provided, further, that any modification or deletion of the rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee hereunder shall have been consented to in writing by the Trustee).
          All Securities of any one Series need not be issued at the same time and may be issued from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Indenture, if so provided by or pursuant to the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate referred to above, and the authorized principal amount of any Series may be increased to provide for issuances of additional Securities of such Series, unless otherwise provided in such Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate.
          Section 2.3 .
Execution and Authentication
          Two Officers shall sign the Securities for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
          If an Officer whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Security is authenticated, the Security shall nevertheless be valid.
 
          A Security shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual or facsimile signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture.
          The Trustee shall at any time, and from time to time, authenticate Securities for original issue in the principal amount provided in the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate, upon receipt by the Trustee of a Company Order. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication unless otherwise provided by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate.
          The aggregate principal amount of Securities of any Series outstanding at any time may not exceed any limit upon the maximum principal amount for such Series set forth in the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 2.2, except as provided in Section 2.9.
          Prior to the issuance of Securities of any Series, the Trustee shall have received and (subject to Section 7.2) shall be fully protected in relying on: (a) the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate establishing the form of the Securities of that Series or of Securities within that Series and the terms of the Securities of that Series or of Securities within that Series, (b) an Officers' Certificate complying with Section 12.4, and (c) an Opinion of Counsel complying with Section 12.4.
          The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Securities of such Series: (a) if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not be taken lawfully; or (b) if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or trustees, executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or vice-presidents shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to Holders of any then outstanding Series of Securities.
          The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. An authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
          Section 2.4 .
Registrar and Paying Agent
          The Company shall maintain, with respect to each Series of Securities, at the place or places specified with respect to such Series pursuant to Section 2.2, an office or agency where Securities of such Series may be presented or surrendered for payment ("Paying Agent"), where Securities of such Series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange ("Registrar") and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such Series and this Indenture may be served ("Service Agent"). The Registrar shall keep a register with respect to each Series of Securities and to their transfer and exchange. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the name and address, and any change in the name or address, of each Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the name and address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
          The Company may also from time to time designate one or more co-registrars, additional paying agents or additional service agents and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligations to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent and Service Agent in each place so specified pursuant to Section 2.2 for Securities of any Series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the name or address of any such co-registrar, additional paying agent or additional service agent. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar; the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent; and the term "Service Agent" includes any additional service agent.
          The Company hereby appoints the Trustee the initial Registrar, Paying Agent and Service Agent for each Series unless another Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent, as the case may be, is appointed prior to the time Securities of that Series are first issued.
          Section 2.5 .
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
          The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust, for the benefit of Holders of any Series of Securities, or the Trustee, all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of
 
principal of or interest on the Series of Securities, and will notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of Holders of any Series of Securities all money held by it as Paying Agent.
          Section 2.6 .
Holder Lists
          The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders of each Series of Securities and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee at least ten days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list, in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of Holders of each Series of Securities.
          Section 2.7 .
Transfer and Exchange
          Where Securities of a Series are presented to the Registrar or a co-registrar with a request to register a transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same Series, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange if its requirements for such transactions are met. To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Trustee shall authenticate Securities at the Registrar's request. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange (except as otherwise expressly permitted herein), but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.6 or 9.6).
          Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
          Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Securities of any Series for the period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days immediately preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that Series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any Series selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Securities selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
          Section 2.8 .
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
          If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery in exchange therefor a new Security of the same Series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
          If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its request the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same Series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
          In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
          Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
 
          Every new Security of any Series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that Series duly issued hereunder.
          The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
          Section 2.9 .
Outstanding Securities
          Subject to Section 2.10, the Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Security effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof and those described in this Section as not outstanding.
          If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.8, it ceases to be outstanding until the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Security is held by a bona fide purchaser.
          If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company) holds as of 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the date of Maturity of Securities of a Series money sufficient to pay such Securities payable on that date, then on and after that date such Securities of the Series cease to be outstanding and interest on them ceases to accrue.
          A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Security.
          In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, the principal amount of a Discount Security that shall be deemed to be outstanding for such purposes shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.2.
          Section 2.10 .
Treasury Securities
          In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Securities of a Series have concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, Securities of a Series owned by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver only Securities of a Series that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee knows are so owned shall be so disregarded.
          Section 2.11 .
Temporary Securities
          Until definitive Securities are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Securities upon a Company Order. Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee upon request shall authenticate definitive Securities of the same Series and date of maturity in exchange for temporary Securities. Until so exchanged, temporary securities shall have the same rights under this Indenture as the definitive Securities.
          Section 2.12 .
Cancellation
          The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange, replacement or payment. The Trustee shall cancel all Securities surrendered for transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and deliver such canceled Securities to the Company, unless the Company otherwise directs; provided that the Trustee shall not be required to destroy Securities. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities that it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
          Section 2.13 .
Defaulted Interest
          If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on a Series of Securities, it shall pay the defaulted interest, plus, to the extent permitted by law, any interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders of the Series on a subsequent special record date. The Company shall fix the record date and payment date. At least 10 days before the record date, the Company shall mail to the Trustee and to each Holder of the Series a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount of interest to be paid. The Company may pay defaulted interest in any other lawful manner.
          Section 2.14 .
Special Record Dates
          (a) The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, set a record date for the purpose of determining the identity of Holders entitled to consent to any supplement, amendment or waiver permitted by this Indenture. If a record date is fixed, the Holders of such Series and Securities outstanding on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to consent to such supplement, amendment or waiver or revoke any consent previously given, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date. No consent shall be valid or effective for more than 90 days after such record date unless consents from Holders of the principal amount of such Series and Securities required hereunder for such amendment or waiver to be effective shall have also been given and not revoked within such 90-day period.
          (b) The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of any Series of Securities entitled to join in the giving or making of any notice of Default, any declaration of acceleration, any request to institute proceedings or any other similar direction. If a record date is fixed, the Holders of such Series and Securities outstanding on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to join in such notice, declaration, request or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided, however, that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the date 90 days after such record date.
          Section 2.15 .
Global Securities
          2.15.1 . A Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate shall establish whether the Securities of a Series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and the Depository for such Global Security or Securities.
Terms of Securities
          2.15.2 . Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained in Section 2.7 of the Indenture and in addition thereto, any Global Security shall be exchangeable pursuant to Section 2.7 of the Indenture for Securities registered in the names of Holders other than the Depository for such Security or its nominee only if (i) such Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for such Global Security or if at any time such Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and, in either case, the Company fails to appoint a successor Depository registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act within 90 days of such event, (ii) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that such Global Security shall be so exchangeable (subject to the procedures of the Depository) or (iii) an Event of Default with respect to the Securities represented by such Global Security shall have happened and be continuing. Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for Securities registered in such names as the Depository shall direct in writing in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security with like tenor and terms.
Transfer and Exchange
          Except as provided in this Section 2.15.2, a Global Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository with respect to such Global Security to a nominee of such Depository, by a nominee of such Depository to such Depository or another nominee of such Depository or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such a successor Depository.
          2.15.3 . Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Legend
          "Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), New York, New York, to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or such other entity as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC), inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co. has an interest herein."
ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL
 
          "Transfer of this Global Security shall be limited to transfers in whole, but not in part, to DTC, to nominees of DTC or to a successor thereof or such successor's nominee and limited to transfers made in accordance with the restrictions set forth in the Indenture referred to herein."
          2.15.4 . The Depository, as a Holder, may appoint agents and otherwise authorize participants to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which a Holder is entitled to give or take under the Indenture.
Acts of Holders
          2.15.5 . Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Indenture, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.2, payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on any Global Security shall be made to the Holder thereof.
Payments
          2.15.6 . Except as provided in Section 2.15.5, the Company, the Trustee and any Agent shall treat a Person as the Holder of such principal amount of outstanding Securities of such Series represented by a Global Security as shall be specified in a written statement of the Depository with respect to such Global Security, for purposes of obtaining any consents, declarations, waivers or directions required to be given by the Holders pursuant to this Indenture.
Consents, Declaration and Directions
          Section 2.16 .
CUSIP Numbers
          The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other elements of identification printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.
          Section 2.17 .
Persons Deemed Owners
          Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered in the Register as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and (subject to the record date provisions thereof) interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to, such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not any payment with respect to such Security shall be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the bearer of a Bearer Security as the absolute owner thereof for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to, such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not any payment with respect to such Security shall be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          No holder of any beneficial interest in any Global Security held on its behalf by a Depository shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to such Global Security, and such Depository may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
          Section 3.1 .
Notice to Trustee
          The Company may, with respect to any Series of Securities, reserve the right to redeem and pay the Series of Securities or may covenant to redeem and pay the Series of Securities or any part thereof prior to the Stated Maturity thereof at such time and on such terms as provided for in such Securities. If a Series of Securities is redeemable and the Company wants or is obligated to redeem prior to the Stated Maturity thereof all or part of the Series of Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, it shall notify the Trustee of the redemption date and the principal amount of Series of Securities to be redeemed. The Company shall give the notice at least 45 days before the redemption date (or such shorter notice as may be acceptable to the Trustee).
 
          Section 3.2 .
Selection of Securities to be Redeemed
          Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, if less than all the Securities of a Series are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select the Securities of the Series to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
          In the event of partial redemption, the Trustee shall make the selection from Securities of the Series outstanding not previously called for redemption. The Trustee may select for redemption a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such Series; provided that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities of a Series called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities of that Series called for redemption.
          Section 3.3 .
Notice of Redemption
          Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption by first-class mail to each Holder whose Securities are to be redeemed and if any Bearer Securities are outstanding, publish on one occasion a notice in an Authorized Newspaper, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Series of Securities or a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture pursuant to Articles VIII or XI hereof.
          The notice shall identify the Securities of the Series to be redeemed and shall state:
          (a) the redemption date;
          (b) the redemption price (or if not then ascertainable, the manner of calculation thereof);
          (c) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
          (d) that Securities of the Series called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
          (e) that interest on Securities of the Series called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date;
          (f) the CUSIP number, if any; and
          (g) any other information as may be required by the terms of the particular Series or the Securities of a Series being redeemed.
          At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense as long as the Trustee is given at least 5 Business Days prior notice of the requested date of the giving of such notice (or such shorter notice as may be acceptable to the Trustee).
          Section 3.4 .
Effect of Notice of Redemption
          Once notice of redemption is mailed or published as provided in Section 3.3, Securities of a Series called for redemption become due and payable on the redemption date and at the redemption price. A notice of redemption at the option of the Company may not be conditional. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Securities shall be paid at the redemption price plus accrued interest to the redemption date; that, unless otherwise specified with respect to such Securities pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the redemption date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities (or one or more predecessor Securities) registered at the close of business on the relevant record date therefor according to their terms and the terms of this Indenture.
provided
          Section 3.5 .
Deposit of Redemption Price
          On or before the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest, if any, on all Securities to be redeemed on that date.
 
          Section 3.6 .
Securities Redeemed in Part
          Upon surrender of a Security that is redeemed in part, the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder a new Security of the same Series and the same maturity equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered.
          Section 4.1 .
Payment of Principal and Interest
          The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it will pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Securities of that Series on the dates and in the manner provided in such Securities. Principal, premium, if any, and interest on any Series of Securities will be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Company or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Company in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest then due.
          The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal with respect to such Securities at the rate specified therefor in the Securities; it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful.
          Section 4.2 .
Additional Amounts
          If any Securities of a Series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, the Company agrees to pay to the Holder of any such Security Additional Amounts as provided in or pursuant to this Indenture or such Securities. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any Series, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided by the terms of such Series established hereby or pursuant hereto to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to such terms, and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provision hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
          Section 4.3 .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
          The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it will maintain an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee for such Securities or an affiliate of such Trustee, Registrar for such Securities or co-registrar) where such Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of such Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee for such Securities of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company fails to maintain any such required office or agency or fails to furnish such Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of such Trustee.
          The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where Holders of a Series of Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee for such Series of Securities of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
          With respect to each Series of Securities, the Company hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee for such Securities as one such office or agency of the Company in accordance with Section 2.5 hereof.
          Section 4.4 .
SEC Reports
          Unless otherwise specified with respect to Securities of a particular Series pursuant to Section 2.2, the Company will, if and to the extent required under the TIA:
 
     (a) file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with the SEC, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of such sections, then to file with the Trustee and the SEC, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the SEC, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations;
     (b) file with the Trustee and the SEC, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the SEC, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants provided for in this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations;
     (c) transmit by mail to the Holders of Securities in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 7.6 within 30 days after the required filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the SEC pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this Section as may be required to be transmitted to such Holders by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the SEC;
     (d) The delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee pursuant to this Section 4.4 is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates). In addition, any reports, information and documents referred to in this Section 4.4 shall be deemed to be delivered to the Trustee and the Holders at the time such reports, information and documents are publicly filed with the SEC via the EDGAR filing system (or any successor system).
          Section 4.5 .
Compliance Certificate
          (a) The Company and each Guarantor of any Series of Securities (to the extent that such Guarantor is so required under the TIA) shall deliver to the Trustee with respect to such Series, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to the best of his or her knowledge the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he or she may have knowledge and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto) and that to the best of his or her knowledge no event has occurred and remains in existence by reason of which payments on account of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Series of Securities is prohibited or if such event has occurred, a description of the event and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
          (b) So long as any Series of Securities is outstanding, the Company will deliver to the Trustee with respect to such Series, promptly upon any Officer becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
          Section 4.6 .
Taxes
          The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it will pay, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of such Securities.
          Section 4.7 .
Stay, Extension and Usury Laws
          The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not, and each Guarantor of such Securities will not, at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that
 
may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company and each such Guarantor (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee for such Securities, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
          Section 4.8 .
Corporate Existence
          Subject to Article V hereof, the Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and rights and franchises; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not obligate the Company to preserve any such right or franchise if the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of its business and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to any Holder.
          Section 4.9
Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
          Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, the Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any arrangement with any other Person pursuant to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries leases any property that has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or the Subsidiary to such other Person (a "Sale and Leaseback Transaction"), except that a Sale and Leaseback Transaction is permitted if the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Indebtedness secured by a Lien on the property to be leased (without equally and ratably securing the Securities of any Series) in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction.
          In addition, the following Sale and Leaseback Transactions are not subject to the limitation in the immediately preceding paragraph and the provisions described in Section 4.10:
          (a) temporary leases for a term, including renewals at the option of the lessee, of not more than three years;
          (b) leases between only the Company and a Subsidiary of the Company or only between Subsidiaries of the Company;
          (c) leases where the proceeds from the sale of the subject property are at least equal to the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Company) of the subject property and the Company applies an amount equal to the net proceeds of the sale to the retirement of long-term Indebtedness or to the purchase of other property or equipment used or useful in its business, within 270 days of the effective date of such sale; provided that in lieu of applying such amount to the retirement of long-term Indebtedness, the Company may deliver Securities or other debt securities to the applicable trustee for cancellation, such Securities or other debt securities to be credited at the cost thereof to the Company; and
          (d) leases of property executed by the time of, or within 270 days after the latest of, the acquisition, the completion of construction or improvement, or the commencement of commercial operation, of the subject property.
          Section 4.10
Liens.
          Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, the Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it shall not, and shall not permit any of its Wholly Owned Domestic Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien (except Permitted Liens) on (1) any Principal Property or (2) the Capital Stock of any Subsidiary, in each case to secure Indebtedness of the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or any other Person, unless the Securities of each Series are secured, equally and ratably with such other Indebtedness (or on a senior basis if the Obligations so secured are subordinated Indebtedness), for so long as such other Indebtedness is so secured. Any Lien that is granted to secure the Securities of any Series pursuant to this Section 4.10 shall be automatically released and discharged at the same time as the release of the Lien that gave rise to the obligation to secure the Securities of such Series pursuant to this Section 4.10.
 
          Section 4.11
Future Subsidiary Guarantees.
          (a) Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, the Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that if the Company or any of its Subsidiaries acquires or creates a Domestic Subsidiary after the date hereof, including if a Subsidiary that is not a Domestic Subsidiary becomes a Domestic Subsidiary after the date hereof, and such Domestic Subsidiary guarantees any other Indebtedness of the Company, then such Domestic Subsidiary will become a Guarantor and will execute a supplemental indenture and deliver an Opinion of Counsel satisfactory to the Trustee within thirty (30) Business Days of the date on which it was acquired or created. The obligations of each Guarantor under its Guarantee will be limited so as not to constitute a fraudulent conveyance under applicable law.
          (b) Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, the Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that if any Guarantor that is released from its Guarantee pursuant to Section 10.04 thereafter guarantees any Indebtedness of the Company (other than the Securities), then that former Guarantor (to the extent it is a Domestic Subsidiary) shall again guarantee the Securities on the terms and conditions set forth in this Indenture.
          Section 5.1 .
Merger, Consolidation, or Sale of Assets
          The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it shall not, directly or indirectly consolidate or merge with or into (whether or not the Company is the surviving entity), or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties or assets in one or more related transactions, to another Person unless (i) the Company is the surviving or continuing corporation or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition has been made is a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia; (ii) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition has been made (if other than the Company) assumes all the Obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee; and (iii) immediately after such transaction no Default or Event of Default exists.
          This Section 5.1 will not apply to:
               (1) a merger of the Company with an Affiliate solely for the purpose of reincorporating the Company in another jurisdiction; or
               (2) any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance, lease or other disposition of assets between or among the Company and its Subsidiaries.
          Section 5.2
Successor Person Substituted.
          In the case of any such consolidation, merger, sale, transfer or other conveyance in a transaction in which there is a successor person, the successor person will succeed to, and be substituted for, the Company under this Indenture and, subject to the terms of this Indenture, the Company will be released from the obligation to pay principal and interest on the Securities and all other Obligations under this Indenture.
          Section 5.3
Delivery of Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel
          The Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel stating that any such consolidation, merger or sale complies with the conditions set forth in this Article 5.
 
          Section 6.1 .
Events of Default
          "Event of Default," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any Series, means any one of the following events, unless in the establishing Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate, it is provided that such Series shall not have the benefit of said Event of Default:
          (a) the Company defaults in the payment when due of any interest on any Security of that Series, and such default continues for a period of 30 days;
          (b) the Company defaults in payment when due of the principal of or premium, if any, on any Security of that Series;
          (c) the Company defaults in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due in respect of any Security of that Series;
          (d) the Company fails to comply with any of the provisions of Section 5.1 hereof;
          (e) the Company fails to comply with any of its other agreements in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty that has been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of a Series of Securities other than that Series), which default continues uncured for 90 days after written notice is received by the Company and the Trustee from Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such Series then outstanding;
          (f) a default occurs under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the applicable Issue Date, which default relates to a payment at final maturity or results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of all other Indebtedness that is not paid at final maturity or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $100.0 million or more;
          (g) failure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to pay a final judgments aggregating in excess of $100.0 million, which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days;
          (h) the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law:
               (i) commences a voluntary case,
               (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case,
               (iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property,
               (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or
               (v) generally is not paying its debts as they become due;
          (i) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
               (i) is for relief against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries in an involuntary case;
               (ii) appoints a Custodian of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or for all or substantially all of the property of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries; or
               (iii) orders the liquidation of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries;
 
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days;
          (j) except as permitted herein, any Guarantee of a Significant Subsidiary shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid; and
          (k) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that Series, which is specified in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate, in accordance with Section 2.2.
          Section 6.2 .
Acceleration
          If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any Series at the time outstanding occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default referred to in Section 6.1(h) or (i)) then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series may declare the principal amount (or, if any Securities of that Series are Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such Securities) of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all of the Securities of that Series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(h) or (i) shall occur, the principal amount (or specified amount) of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Securities shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
ipso facto
          At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to any Series has been made, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default (except nonpayment of principal, interest or premium that has become due solely because of the acceleration) have been cured or waived.
          No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
          Section 6.3 .
Other Remedies
          If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any Series at the time outstanding occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest on such Securities or to enforce the performance of any provision of such Securities or this Indenture.
          The Trustee for such Securities may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of such Securities or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder of Securities in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
          Section 6.4 .
Waiver of Past Defaults
          Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any Series by notice to the Trustee for such Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all of such Securities waive an existing Default or Event of Default with respect to such Securities and its consequences hereunder, except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, such Securities; provided, however, that the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any Series may rescind an acceleration of such Securities and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration. Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
          Section 6.5 .
Control by Majority
          Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any Series may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee for such Securities or exercising any trust or power conferred on it. However, the Trustee for any Series of Securities may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture that such Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of such Securities or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability.
          Section 6.6 .
Limitation on Suits
          A Holder of any Series of Securities may pursue a remedy with respect to this Indenture or such Securities only if:
               (1) such Holder gives to the Trustee for such Securities written notice that an Event of Default with respect to such Series is continuing;
               (2) Holders of more than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of such Series make a written request to the Trustee for such Securities to pursue the remedy;
               (3) such Holder or Holders offer and, if requested, provide to the Trustee for such Securities security or indemnity satisfactory to such Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
               (4) such Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer of security or indemnity; and
               (5) during such 60-day period, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of such Series do not give such Trustee a direction inconsistent with such request.
          A Holder of any Series of Securities may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of such Series of Securities or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of Securities of such Series.
          Section 6.7 .
Rights of Holders of Securities to Receive Payment
          Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Security of any Series to receive payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest on such Securities, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Securities (including, if applicable, in connection with an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
          Section 6.8 .
Collection Suit by Trustee
          If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(a), (b) or (c) hereof with respect to Securities of any Series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee for such Securities is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal of, premium, if any, and interest remaining unpaid on, such Securities and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of such Trustee, its agents and counsel.
          Section 6.9 .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
          The Trustee for each Series of Securities is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of such Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of such Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Securities for which it acts as trustee allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon such Securities), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder of such Securities to make such payments to such Trustee, and in the event that such Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to such Holders, to pay to such Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of such Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due such Trustee under the Indenture. To the extent that the payment of any such
 
compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of such Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due such Trustee out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that such Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize such Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder for which it acts as trustee any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of such Holder, or to authorize such Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any such Holder in any such proceeding.
          Section 6.10 .
Priorities
          If the Trustee of any Series of Securities collects any money pursuant to this Article VI, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
          : to the Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under the Indenture, including payment of all compensation, expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection;
First
          : to Holders of such Securities for amounts due and unpaid on such Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal, premium, if any and interest, respectively; and
Second
          : to the Company or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct.
Third
          Subject to Section 2.13 hereof, the Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Securities pursuant to this Section 6.10.
          Section 6.11 .
Undertaking for Costs
          In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against any Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Security pursuant to Section 6.7 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any Series.
          Section 7.1 .
Duties of Trustee
          (a) Subject to Section 7.2(i), if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
          (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
               (i) The Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others.
               (ii) In the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon Officers' Certificates or Opinions of Counsel furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; however, in the case of any such Officers' Certificates or Opinions of Counsel which by any provisions hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine such Officers' Certificates and Opinions of Counsel to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
 
          (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
               (i) This paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section.
               (ii) The Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts.
               (iii) The Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it with respect to Securities of any Series in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such Series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such Series.
          (d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraph (a), (b) and (c) of this Section.
          (e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power at the request or direction of any Holder unless it receives written direction and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
          (f) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
          (g) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk is not reasonably assured to it.
          (h) The Paying Agent, the Registrar and any authenticating agent shall be entitled to the protections, immunities and standard of care as are set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section with respect to the Trustee.
          Section 7.2 .
Rights of Trustee
          (a) The Trustee may conclusively rely on and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
          (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate and/or Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or in reliance on written direction from requisite holders.
          (c) The Trustee may act through agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care. No Depository shall be deemed an agent of the Trustee and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any act or omission by any Depository.
          (d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers, provided that the Trustee's conduct does not constitute negligence or willful misconduct.
          (e) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders of Securities unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
          (f) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder without negligence and in good faith and in reliance thereon.
 
          (g) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit.
          (h) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default (other than a payment default under Sections 6.1(a), (b) or (c) hereof) unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities generally or the Securities of a particular Series and this Indenture.
          (i) The Trustee shall not be required to provide any bond or surety with respect to the execution of these trusts and powers.
          (j) in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
          (k) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
          (l) In the absence of a written agreement signed by the Trustee, the Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any funds deposited with the Trustee.
          (m) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
          Section 7.3 .
Individual Rights of Trustee
          The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights. The Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
          Section 7.4 .
Trustee's Disclaimer
          The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement in the Securities other than its authentication. The Trustee has no responsibility for or liability in connection with any filing of financing statements or perfection of any lien or security interest purported to be created hereunder.
          Section 7.5 .
Notice of Defaults
          If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect to the Securities of any Series and if it is known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of the Securities of that Series and, if any Bearer Securities are outstanding, mail in the manner provided by in TIA  313(c), notice of a Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs or, if later, after a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has knowledge of such Default or Event of Default. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of or interest on any Security of any Series, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as its corporate trust committee or a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders of that Series.
          Section 7.6 .
Reports by Trustee to Holders
          Within 60 days after May 15 in the first year following the issuance of a Series of Securities under this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names and addresses appear on the register kept by the Registrar and, if any Bearer Securities are outstanding, transmit by mail in accordance with TIA  313(c), a brief report dated as of such May 15, in accordance with, and to the extent required under, TIA  313(a).
 
          A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders of any Series shall be filed by the Trustee with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Securities of that Series are listed, if any. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee when Securities of any Series are listed on any stock exchange.
 
          Section 7.7 .
Compensation and Indemnity
          The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation for its services as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree upon in writing. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by it. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
          The Company shall indemnify each of the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee (including the cost of defending itself) against any loss, liability or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee) incurred by it in the performance of its duties under this Indenture as Trustee or Agent (except as set forth in the next paragraph). The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim of which a Responsible Officer has received written notice and for which it may seek indemnity. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may have one separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld. This indemnification shall apply to officers, directors, employees, shareholders and agents of the Trustee.
          The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability incurred by the Trustee or by any officer, director, employee, shareholder or agent of the Trustee through its own negligence or willful misconduct.
          To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities of any Series on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal of and interest on particular Securities of that Series.
          When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(h) or (i) occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
          The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture.
          Section 7.8
Replacement of Trustee.
          A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section.
          The Trustee may resign with respect to the Securities of one or more Series by so notifying the Company at least 30 days prior to the date of the proposed resignation. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any Series may remove the Trustee with respect to that Series by so notifying the Trustee and the Company. The Company may remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of one or more Series if:
          (a) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
          (b) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
          (c) a Custodian or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
          (d) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
          If the Trustee resigns or is removed with respect to the Securities of a Series or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such Series. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of such Series may appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such Series to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
 
          If a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any one or more Series does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, at the expense of the Company, the Company or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Securities of the applicable Series may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
          A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately after that, the retiring Trustee shall upon payment of its charges hereunder transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.7, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee with respect to each Series of Securities for which it is acting as Trustee under this Indenture. A successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to each Holder of each such Series and, if any Bearer Securities are outstanding, publish such notice on one occasion in an Authorized Newspaper. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.8, the Company's obligations under Section 7.7 hereof shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee with respect to expenses and liabilities incurred by it prior to such replacement.
          Section 7.9
Successor Trustee by Merger, etc.
          If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
          Section 7.10 .
Eligibility; Disqualification
          This Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA  310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Trustee shall always have a combined capital and surplus of at least $25,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA  310(b).
          Section 7.11 .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
          The Trustee is subject to TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated.
          Section 8.1 .
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
          The Company may at any time elect to have either Section 8.2 or 8.3 hereof be applied to all outstanding Securities of any Series upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article VIII.
          Section 8.2 .
Legal Defeasance and Discharge
          Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.1 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.2, the Company and each Guarantor, if any, of such Securities will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.4 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its or their obligations with respect to all outstanding Securities of such Series (including the related guarantees, if any) on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "Legal Defeasance"). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company and such Guarantors will be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the outstanding Securities of such Series (including the related guarantees, if any), which will thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 8.5 hereof and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in clauses (1) and (2) below, and to have satisfied all its or their other obligations under such Securities, such guarantees, if any, and this Indenture (and the Trustee for such Securities, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which will survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:
               (1) the rights of Holders of outstanding Securities of such Series to receive payments in respect of the principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on, such Securities when such payments are due from the trust referred to in Section 8.4 hereof;
               (2) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Article II hereof;
 
               (3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee for such Securities hereunder and the Company's and the Guarantors', if any, obligations in connection therewith; and
               (4) this Article VIII.
          Subject to compliance with this Article VIII, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 8.2 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 8.3 hereof.
          Section 8.3 .
Covenant Defeasance
          Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.1 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.3, the Company and each of the Guarantors, if any, will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.4 hereof, be released from each of their or its obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11 and 5.1, Article X and all covenants specified in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate, in accordance with Section 2.2, with respect to the outstanding Securities of the applicable Series on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.4 hereof are satisfied (hereinafter, "Covenant Defeasance"), and such Securities will thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders of such Securities (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but will continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Securities will not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Securities of such Series, the Company may omit to comply with and will have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply will not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.1 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities will be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.1 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.3, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.4 hereof, Sections 6.1(d) through (g) and Sections 6.1(j) and (k) hereof will not constitute Events of Default.
          Section 8.4 .
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance
          In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance under either Section 8.2 or 8.3 hereof with respect to Securities of any Series:
     (1) the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee for such Securities, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities or foreign government obligations, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized investment bank, appraisal firm, or firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the outstanding Securities of such Series on the stated date for payment thereof or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, and the Company must specify whether such Securities are being defeased to such stated date for payment or to a particular redemption date;
     (2) in the case of an election under Section 8.2 hereof, the Company must deliver to the Trustee for such Securities an Opinion of Counsel confirming that:
     (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling; or
     (B) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law,
in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Securities of such Series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
     (3) in the case of an election under Section 8.3 hereof, the Company must deliver to the Trustee for such Securities an Opinion of Counsel confirming that the Holders of such Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
 
     (4) no Default or Event of Default with respect to such Securities shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit) and the deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other instrument to which the Company or any Guarantor of such Securities is a party or by which the Company or any such Guarantor is bound;
     (5) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument (other than this Indenture) to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound;
     (6) the Company must deliver to the Trustee for such Securities an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of such Securities over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding any creditors of the Company or others; and
     (7) the Company must deliver to the Trustee for such Securities an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
          Section 8.5 .
Deposited Money and Government Securities to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
          Subject to Section 8.6 hereof, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 8.5, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 8.4 hereof in respect of the outstanding Securities of any Series will be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
          The Company will pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.4 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Securities of the applicable Series.
          Notwithstanding anything in this Article VIII to the contrary, the Trustee will deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.4 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized investment bank, appraisal firm or firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.4(1) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
          Section 8.6 .
Repayment to Company
          Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, any Series of Securities and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or (if then held by the Company) will be discharged from such trust; and the Holders of such Securities will thereafter be permitted to look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, will thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which will not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
          Section 8.7 .
Reinstatement
          If, in connection with a Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance, the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any U.S. dollars or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.5, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's and any applicable Guarantors' obligations under this Indenture and the applicable Securities and the guarantees will be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.2 or 8.3 hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.5; provided, however, that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of or interest on any such Securities following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company will be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
 
          Section 9.1 .
Without Consent of Holders
          Notwithstanding Section 9.2 of this Indenture, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Securities of one or more Series without the consent of any Holder:
     (a) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
     (b) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities;
     (c) to provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to the Holders of the Securities by a successor to the Company pursuant to Article V hereof;
     (d) to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of Securities Outstanding hereunder;
     (e) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of any covenant on liens in respect of such series of Securities or otherwise and to provide the terms and conditions for the release or substitution of the security;
     (f) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, or to add any new provision to this Indenture, in respect of one or more series of Securities; , , that any such change, elimination or addition (A) shall neither (i) apply to any Security outstanding on the date of such indenture supplemental hereto nor (ii) modify the rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision in effect prior to the date of such indenture supplemental hereto or (B) shall become effective only when no Security of such series remains outstanding;
provided
however
     (g) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Securities or that does not adversely affect the Holders' rights hereunder in any material respect;
     (h) to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA;
     (i) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of Securities of any Series as permitted by this Indenture;
     (j) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more Series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee;
     (k) to add an additional Guarantor or obligor under this Indenture; or
     (l) to conform any provision of this Indenture, the Securities of any Series or any related guarantees or security documents to the description of such Securities contained in the Company's prospectus, prospectus supplement, offering memorandum or similar document with respect to the offering of the Securities of such Series to the extent that such description was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision in the Indenture, such Securities or any related guarantees or security documents.
          Upon the request of the Company and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.2 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company and the Guarantors in the execution of any amended or supplemental indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee will not be obligated to enter into such amended or supplemental indenture that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
          Section 9.2 .
With Consent of Holders
          Subject to Section 9.3, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of each Series affected by such supplemental indenture (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Securities of such Series), for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of each such Series. Except as provided in Section 6.4, the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of each Series by notice to the Trustee (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Securities of such Series) may waive compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with any provision of this Indenture or the Securities with respect to such Series.
          It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Securities under this Section 9.2 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. Upon the request of the Company and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Securities as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.2 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company and the Guarantors in the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture unless such amended or supplemental indenture directly affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but will not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture.
          After a supplemental indenture or waiver under this section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to the Holders of Securities affected thereby and, if any Bearer Securities affected thereby are outstanding, publish on one occasion in an Authorized Newspaper, a notice briefly describing the supplemental indenture or waiver. Any failure by the Company to mail or publish such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture or waiver.
          Section 9.3 .
Limitations
          Without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment, supplement or waiver may not (with respect to any Securities held by a non-consenting Holder):
          (a) change the amount of Securities whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
          (b) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest (including default interest) on any Security;
          (c) reduce the principal or change the Stated Maturity of any Security or reduce the amount of, or postpone the date fixed for, the payment of any sinking fund or analogous obligation;
          (d) reduce the principal amount of Discount Securities payable upon acceleration of the maturity thereof;
          (e) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or interest, if any, on any Security (except a rescission of acceleration of the Securities of any Series by the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such Series and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration);
          (f) make the principal of or interest, if any, on any Security payable in any currency other than that stated in the Security;
          (g) make any change in Sections 6.4, 6.7 or 9.3 (this sentence); or
          (h) waive a redemption payment with respect to any Security (other than with respect to any provision relating to covenants that require the Company to repurchase, at the option of Holders, a series of Securities in connection with a "change of control" or other triggering event).
          Section 9.4 .
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
          Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Securities of one or more Series shall be set forth in an amended or supplemental indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect.
 
          Section 9.5 .
Revocation and Effect of Consents
          (a) Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Security is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Security or portion of a Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder subject to Section 9.5(d) may revoke the consent as to his Security or portion of a Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective.
          (b) An amendment, supplement or waiver effective in accordance with its terms will thereafter bind every Holder.
          (c) For purposes of this Indenture, the consent of the Holder of a Global Security shall be deemed to include any consent delivered by any member of, or participant in, any Depository or DTC, any nominees thereof and their respective successors and assigns, or such other depository institution hereinafter appointed by the Company ("Depository Entity") by electronic means in accordance with the Automated Tender Offer Procedures system or other customary procedures of, and pursuant to authorization by, such Depository Entity.
          (d) The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to consent to any amendment, supplement or waiver. If a record date is fixed, then notwithstanding the last sentence of the immediately preceding paragraph, those Persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to revoke any consent previously given, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 120 days after such record date. The Company shall inform the Trustee of the fixed record date, if applicable.
          (e) Any amendment or waiver once effective shall bind every Holder of each Series affected by such amendment or waiver unless it is of the type described in any of clauses (a) through (h) of Section 9.3. In that case, the amendment or waiver shall bind each Holder of a Security who has consented to it and every subsequent Holder of a Security or portion of a Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security.
          Section 9.6 .
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
          The Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment, supplement or waiver on any Security of any Series thereafter authenticated. The Company in exchange for Securities of that Series may issue and the Trustee shall authenticate upon request new Securities of that Series that reflect the amendment or waiver.
          Section 9.7 .
Trustee Protected
          In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article IX or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be provided with, and (subject to Section 7.1) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
          Section 10.1
Agreement to Guarantee.
          Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, each of the Guarantors hereby agrees as follows:
          (a) Such Guarantor, jointly and severally with all other Guarantors, unconditionally guarantees to the Holders of each Series of Securities authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee its successors and assigns, regardless of the validity and enforceability of this Indenture, the Securities of such Series or the Obligations of the Company under this Indenture or the Securities of such Series, that:
 
               (i) the principal of, premium and interest on the Securities of such Series will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium and interest, on the Securities of such Series, to the extent lawful, and all other Obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee thereunder or under this Indenture will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms thereof; and
               (ii) in case of any extension of time for payment or renewal of any Securities of such Series or any of such other Obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise.
          (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that this Guarantee would constitute or result in a violation of any applicable fraudulent conveyance or similar law of any relevant jurisdiction, the liability of the Guarantors under this Indenture shall be reduced to the maximum amount permissible under such fraudulent conveyance or similar law.
          Section 10.2
Execution and Delivery of Subsidiary Guarantees.
          (a) The Guarantee of a Guarantor shall be evidenced by the execution and delivery of this Indenture by an Officer of such Guarantor, a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate.
          (b) If an Officer whose signature is on this Indenture no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates any Security pursuant to this Indenture, the Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
          (c) The delivery of any Security by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof under this Indenture, shall constitute due delivery of the Guarantee set forth in this Indenture on behalf of each Guarantor.
          (d) Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, regardless of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Securities or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Securities with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor.
          (e) Each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that its Guarantee made pursuant to this Indenture will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Securities of each Series and this Indenture.
          (f) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company or any Guarantor, or any Custodian, Trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or such Guarantor, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, the Guarantee made pursuant to this Indenture, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
          (g) Each Guarantor agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between such Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand:
               (i) the maturity of the Obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 of this Indenture for the purposes of the Guarantee made pursuant to this Indenture, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby; and
               (ii) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such Obligations as provided in Article 6 of this Indenture, such Obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by such Guarantor for the purpose of the Guarantee made pursuant to this Indenture.
          (h) Each Guarantor shall have the right to seek contribution from any other non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders or the Trustee under the Guarantee made pursuant to this Indenture.
 
     Section 10.3
Guarantors May Consolidate, Etc. on Certain Terms.
     (a) Except as set forth in Article 5 of this Indenture, nothing contained in this Indenture or in the Securities of any Series shall prevent any consolidation or merger of any Guarantor with or into the Company or any other Guarantor or shall prevent any transfer, sale or conveyance of the property of any Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety, to the Company or any other Guarantor.
     (b) Except as set forth in Article 5 of this Indenture, nothing contained in this Indenture or in the Securities of any Series shall prevent any consolidation or merger of any Guarantor with or into any entity other than the Company or any other Guarantor (in each case, whether or not affiliated with the Guarantor), or successive consolidations or mergers in which a Guarantor or its successor or successors shall be a party or parties, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of any Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety, to any entity other than the Company or any other Guarantor (in each case, whether or not affiliated with the Guarantor) authorized to acquire and operate the same; provided, however, that no Guarantor may consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person (except the Company or another Guarantor) unless: (i) subject to the provisions of Section 10.4(c), the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than such Guarantor) assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor under the Securities of each Series and this Indenture pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee; and (ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists.
     (c) In case of any consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance in which the successor entity assumes all the obligations of a Guarantor under the Securities of each Series and this Indenture pursuant to the proviso to Section 10.3(b), such successor entity shall succeed to and be substituted for such Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein, or in the Board Resolution, the supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, as applicable, as one of the Guarantors. Such successor entity thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Guarantees to be endorsed upon the Securities of each Series issuable under this Indenture which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee. All the Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
     Section 10.4
Releases.
     (a) Upon defeasance or the release of all guarantees by a Guarantor under all the outstanding Indebtedness of the Company (other than the Securities) that is guaranteed by that Guarantor, the Guarantee of that Guarantor will automatically and unconditionally be released and discharged, without any further action required by such Guarantor or the Trustee.
     (b) The Guarantee of any Guarantor shall automatically and unconditionally be released and discharged, without any further action required by such Guarantor or the Trustee, if at any time such Guarantor is no longer a Domestic Subsidiary.
     (c) In the event of a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of stock of any Guarantor such that the Guarantor is no longer a Subsidiary of the Company, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of such a merger, consolidation or otherwise) or the entity acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of such Guarantor) shall be automatically and unconditionally released and relieved of any obligations under its Guarantee, without any actions required on the part of the Guarantor or Trustee.
     Section 11.1 .
Satisfaction and Discharge
     This Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect as to a Series of Securities issued hereunder, when:
     (a) either:
          (i) all such Securities that have been authenticated, except lost, stolen or destroyed Securities that have been replaced or paid and Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company, have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
          (ii) all such Securities that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise or will become due and payable within one year and the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium, if any, and accrued interest to the date of maturity or redemption;
     (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit) and the deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other instrument to which the Company or any Guarantor of such Securities is a party or by which the Company or any such Guarantor is bound;
     (c) the Company or any Guarantor of such Securities has paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it under this Indenture; and
     (d) the Company has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee for such Securities under this Indenture to apply the deposited money toward the payment of such Securities at maturity or on the redemption date, as the case may be.
In addition, the Company must deliver an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee for such Securities stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied, and all fees and expenses of the Trustee shall have been paid.
     Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, if money has been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (ii) of clause (a) of this Section 11.1, the provisions of Sections 11.2 and 8.6 hereof will survive. In addition, nothing in this Section 11.1 will be deemed to discharge those provisions of Section 7.7 hereof, that, by their terms, survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
     Section 11.2 .
Application of Trust Money
     Subject to the provisions of Section 8.6 hereof, all money or Government Securities deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.1 hereof shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities with respect to with such deposit was made and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as such Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
     If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or Government Securities in accordance with Section 11.1 hereof by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's and any applicable Guarantor's obligations under this Indenture and the applicable Securities shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 11.1 hereof; provided that if the Company has made any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, any Securities because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money or Government Securities held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
     Section 12.1 .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
     If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required or deemed to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, such required or deemed provision shall control.
 
     Section 12.2 .
Notices
     Any notice or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the other, or by a Holder to the Company or the Trustee, is duly given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail, or by facsimile:
if to the Company or the Guarantors:
L-3 Communications Corporation 600 Third Avenue, 34th Floor, New York, New York 10016 Attention: Vice President-Chief Financial Officer (Fax: 212-805-5264)
With a copy to:
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP 425 Lexington Avenue New York, New York 10017 Attention: Avrohom J. Kess (Fax: 212-455-2502)
If to the Trustee:
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. 525 William Penn Place, 38 Floor Pittsburgh, PA 15259 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration (Fax: 412-234-7535)
th
     The Company, the Guarantors or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
     Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
     All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) will be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
     Any notice or communication to a Holder shall be mailed by first-class mail to his address shown on the register kept by the Registrar and, if any Bearer Securities are outstanding, published in an Authorized Newspaper, unless otherwise provided with respect to the applicable Series. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder of any Series or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders of that or any other Series.
     In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
     If a notice or communication is mailed or published in the manner provided above, within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the Holder receives it.
     If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
 
     Where the Indenture provides for notice of any event to a Holder of a Global Security, such notice shall be sufficiently given if given to the Depository for such Global Security (or its designee), pursuant to the applicable procedures of the Depository, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice.
     Section 12.3 .
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
     Holders of any Series may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders of that Series or any other Series with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities of that Series or all Series. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
     Section 12.4 .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
     Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall, upon request, furnish to the Trustee:
   (a) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
   (b) an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
     Section 12.5 .
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
     Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to Section 4.4 hereof and TIA  314(a)(4)) shall comply with the provisions of TIA  314(e) and shall include:
   (a) a statement that the person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
   (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
   (c) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
   (d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
     Section 12.6 .
Rules by Trustee and Agents
     The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Holders of one or more Series. Any Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions.
     Section 12.7 .
Legal Holidays
     Unless otherwise provided by Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture hereto for a particular Series, a "Legal Holiday" is any day that is not a Business Day. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a place of payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
     Section 12.8
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders.
     No director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company under the Securities of any Series or the Guarantees and this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Securities of any Series, by accepting a Security of such Series, waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Securities of each Series.
 
     Section 12.9 .
Counterparts
     This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
     Section 12.10 .
Governing Law; Waiver of Trial by Jury
     
THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES AND THE GUARANTEES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
     
THE COMPANY AND EACH OF THE GUARANTORS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMIT , FOR THEMSELVES AND THEIR PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND FINALLY DETERMINED IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW.
     Section 12.11 .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
     No past, present or future director, officer, stockholder or employee, as such, of the Company or any Guarantor or any successor corporation shall have any liability for any obligation of the Company or any Guarantor under the Securities, the Indenture or the Guarantee or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Securities.
     Section 12.12 .
Successors
     All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor.
     Section 12.13 .
Severability
     In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
     Section 12.14
Counterpart Originals.
     The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy will be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
     Section 12.15
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc.
     The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table, and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
     Section 12.16
Securities in a Foreign Currency
 
     Unless otherwise specified in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 2.2 of this Indenture with respect to a particular Series of Securities, whenever for purposes of this Indenture any action may be taken by the Holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of Securities of all Series or all Series affected by a particular action at the time outstanding and, at such time, there are outstanding Securities of any Series which are denominated in a coin or currency other than Dollars, then the principal amount of Securities of such Series which shall be deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of taking such action shall be that amount of Dollars that could be obtained for such amount at the Market Exchange Rate at such time. For purposes of this Section 12.16, "Market Exchange Rate" shall mean the noon Dollar buying rate in New York City for cable transfers of that currency as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. If such Market Exchange Rate is not available for any reason with respect to such currency, the Trustee shall use, in its sole discretion and without liability on its part, such quotation of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as of the most recent available date, or quotations from one or more major banks in The City of New York or in the country of issue of the currency in question or such other quotations as the Trustee, upon consultation with the Company, shall deem appropriate. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply in determining the equivalent principal amount in respect of Securities of a Series denominated in currency other than Dollars in connection with any action taken by Holders of Securities pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
     All decisions and determinations of the Trustee regarding the Market Exchange Rate or any alternative determination provided for in the preceding paragraph shall be in its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, to the extent permitted by law, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Company and all Holders.
     Section 12.17 .
Force Majeure
     In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
     Section 13.1 .
Applicability of Article
     The provisions of this Article XIII shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of the Securities of a Series, except as otherwise permitted or required by any form of Security of such Series issued pursuant to this Indenture.
     The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of the Securities of any Series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment" and any other amount provided for by the terms of Securities of such Series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." If provided for by the terms of Securities of any Series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 13.2. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any Series as provided for by the terms of the Securities of such Series.
     Section 13.2 .
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
     The Company may, in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of any Series to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities (1) deliver outstanding Securities of such Series to which such sinking fund payment is applicable (other than any of such Securities previously called for mandatory sinking fund redemption) and (2) apply as a credit Securities of such Series to which such sinking fund payment is applicable and which have been repurchased by the Company or redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Series of Securities (except pursuant to any mandatory sinking fund) or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments or other optional redemptions pursuant to the terms of such Securities, provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received by the Trustee, together with an Officers' Certificate with respect thereto, not later than 15 days prior to the date on which the Trustee begins the process of selecting Securities for redemption, and shall be credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly. If as a result of the delivery or credit of Securities in lieu of cash payments pursuant to this Section 13.2, the principal amount of Securities of such Series to be redeemed in order to exhaust the aforesaid cash payment shall be less than $100,000, the Trustee need not call Securities of such Series for redemption, except upon receipt of a Company Order that such action be taken, and such cash payment shall be held by the Trustee or a Paying Agent and applied to the next succeeding sinking fund payment, provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall from time to time upon receipt of a Company Order pay over and deliver to the Company any cash payment so being held by the Trustee or such Paying Agent upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of Securities of that Series purchased by the Company having an unpaid principal amount equal to the cash payment required to be released to the Company.
     Section 13.3 .
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
 
     Not less than 45 days (unless otherwise indicated in the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate in respect of a particular Series of Securities) prior to each sinking fund payment date for any Series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing mandatory sinking fund payment for that Series pursuant to the terms of that Series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting of Securities of that Series pursuant to Section 13.2, and the optional amount, if any, to be added in cash to the next ensuing mandatory sinking fund payment, and the Company shall thereupon be obligated to pay the amount therein specified. Not less than 30 days (unless otherwise indicated in the Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture in respect of a particular Series of Securities) before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 3.2 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 3.3. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6.
     [Signatures on following pages]
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
: BROADCAST SPORTS INC. D.P. ASSOCIATES, INC. ELECTRODYNAMICS, INC. INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES GROUP LTD. INTERSTATE ELECTRONICS CORPORATION LINCOM WIRELESS, INC. L-3 CHESAPEAKE SCIENCES CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ADVANCED LASER SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS AIS GP CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS APPLIED SIGNAL AND IMAGE TECHNOLOGY, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS AVIONICS SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CINCINNATI ELECTRONICS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CYTERRA CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS DYNAMIC POSITIONING AND CONTROL SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRON TECHNOLOGIES, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS EO/IR, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS EOTECH, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ESSCO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FLIGHT CAPITAL LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL AVIATION LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FOREIGN HOLDINGS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS GERMANY HOLDINGS, LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INFRAREDVISION TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INVESTMENTS INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS KLEIN ASSOCIATES, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS MARIPRO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS MOBILE-VISION, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS NOVA ENGINEERING, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY AND DETECTION SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SHARED SERVICES, LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SONOMA EO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS VECTOR INTERNATIONAL AVIATION LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS VERTEX AEROSPACE LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS WESTWOOD CORPORATION L-3 FUZING AND ORDNANCE SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 G.A. INTERNATIONAL, INC. L-3 GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS SOLUTIONS, INC. L-3 SERVICES, INC. L-3 UNMANNED SYSTEMS, INC. MICRODYNE COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED MICRODYNE CORPORATION MICRODYNE OUTSOURCING INCORPORATED PAC ORD INC.
Guarantors
 
POWER PARAGON, INC. SPD ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS, INC. SPD SWITCHGEAR INC. TITAN FACILITIES, INC.
As Guarantors
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INTEGRATED SYSTEMS L.P., a Delaware limited partnership
As a Guarantor
 
     as Trustee
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,

Exhibit 4.2 EXECUTION VERSION
 
          FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of May 21, 2010 among L-3 Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the guarantors listed on the signature pages hereto (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "").
Company
Guarantors
Trustee
          WHEREAS, the Company and the Guarantors have heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2010 (the ""), with the Trustee;
Original Indenture
          WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this reference and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "";
Indenture
          WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture, a new series of Securities may at any time be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and the Trustee;
          WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Securities;
          WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue $800,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of Notes (as defined below), which will be a new series of Securities under the Indenture; and
          WHEREAS, all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture and to make it a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company have been done or performed.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree to the following provisions:
          Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Original Indenture.
 
          SECTION 1.01 .
Establishment and Terms
          There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's % Senior Notes due 2020 (the "").
4.750
Notes
          The aggregate principal amount of Notes that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is unlimited. The Notes that are to be authenticated and delivered on the date hereof (the "") will be in an aggregate principal amount of $800,000,000.
Initial Notes
          With respect to any additional Notes (the "") the Company elects to issue under the Indenture, the Company shall set forth in an Officers' Certificate the following information:
Additional Notes
          For purposes of the Indenture, notes will not be deemed to be Additional Notes of a series unless the maturity date, interest payment dates, record dates and interest rate are identical to the Initial Notes for that series.
          The Initial Notes and any Additional Notes shall be considered collectively as a single class for all purposes of the Indenture. Holders of the Initial Notes and any Additional Notes will vote and consent together on all matters to which such Holders are entitled to vote or consent as one class, and none of the Holders of the Initial Notes or any Additional Notes shall have the right to vote or consent as a separate class on any matter to which such Holders are entitled to vote or consent.
          The Notes shall each be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities in substantially the form set out in . The initial Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company ("").
Exhibit A
DTC
          SECTION 1.02 .
Maturity, Payment of Principal and Interest
          The Notes will mature on July 15, 2020.
          The Notes will bear interest at the rate of 4.750% per annum. The interest payment dates with respect to the Notes will be January 15 and July 15 of each year. The first interest payment date with respect to the Initial Notes will be January 15, 2011. Interest payable on January 15 and July 15, shall be paid to the Person in whose name the applicable Note is registered on the immediately preceding January 1 and July 1, respectively. Interest on the
 
Initial Notes will accrue from May 21, 2010. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
          All payments of principal, premium (if any) and interest on the Notes shall be made in accordance with Section 4.1 of the Original Indenture and in the manner set forth in Section 2.13 of the Original Indenture and Exhibit A hereto.
          SECTION 1.03 .The Notes will not be subject to a sinking fund and no payments of Additional Amounts shall be made on the Notes.
No Sinking Fund or Payments of Additional Amounts
          SECTION 1.04 .
Optional Redemption
          The Company may, at its option, redeem the Notes in whole at any time or in part from time to time, on at least 30 but not more than 60 days' prior notice, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
          If the Company elects to redeem the Notes pursuant to this Section 1.04, it shall also pay accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption, subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date.
          In determining the redemption price and accrued interest pursuant to this Section 1.04, interest will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
          For the purposes of this Section 1.04, the following definitions are applicable:
          "" means, with respect to the Notes, the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
          "" means, with respect to any redemption date, (1) the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date, as set forth in the daily statistical release (or any successor release) published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and designated "Composite 3:30 p.m. Quotations for U.S. Government Securities" or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published or does not contain such price on such Business Day, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference
Comparable Treasury Price
 
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Trustee is given fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
          "" means (A) Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., (or their respective affiliates which are Primary Treasury Dealers) and each of their successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (B) any other Primary Treasury Dealer(s) selected by us.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
          "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
          "" means, with respect to any Notes, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof to be redeemed and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
          "" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
          SECTION 1.05 .
Offer To Repurchase Upon Change Of Control Triggering Event
          (a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to Section 1.04 of this First Supplemental Indenture, each Holder shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "") at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the ""), subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date. Within 30 days following the date upon which any Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control Triggering Event but subject to the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and offering to repurchase Notes on the date specified in such notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""), pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture and described in such notice. The notice, if mailed prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control Triggering
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
 
Event, shall state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date. The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event.
          (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
     (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer and not withdrawn;
     (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof so tendered and not withdrawn; and
     (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company.
The Paying Agent shall promptly transmit to each Holder of Notes so tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and transmit (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
provided
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in Article III of the Original Indenture and this Section 1.05 applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
          (c) For the purposes of this Section 1.05, the following definitions are applicable:
          "" means the occurrence of any one of the following:
Change of Control
          (1) the sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries;
          (2) the consummation of any transaction (including without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person (as defined above) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares, other than by a person whose outstanding Voting
 
Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares, is owned 100%, directly or indirectly, by Holdings;
               (3) the first day on which the majority of the members of the board of directors of the Company cease to be Continuing Directors; or
               (4) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
          "" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by at least two of the three Rating Agencies on any date during the 60-day period (the "") commencing on the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the pending occurrence of a Change of Control or our intention to effect a Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change).
Change of Control Triggering Event
Trigger Period
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control (1) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating that causes the Notes to cease to be rated Investment Grade do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the ratings reduction) and (2) unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
          "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of the Company who (1) was a member of such board of directors on the date hereof; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination or election.
Continuing Directors
          "" means Fitch Inc., a subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A., and its successors.
Fitch
          "" means a rating of BBB- or better by Fitch (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Fitch); a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's); and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P).
Investment Grade
          "" means Moody's Investors Service Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
          "" means each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; provided, that if any of Moody's, S&P and Fitch ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, the Company may appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Rating Agency
          "" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
 
          SECTION 1.06 . The Notes shall be issued only in fully registered book-entry form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Denominations
          SECTION 2.01 . The recitals in this First Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of the Notes and of this First Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as if set forth herein in full.
Trustee Matters
          SECTION 2.03 . The Original Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument; provided that, in case of conflict between this First Supplemental Indenture and the Original Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture shall control.
Ratification
          SECTION 2.05 . This First Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterpart Originals
          SECTION 2.07 . Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility for the performance of DTC, Euroclear or Cede & Co., or any of their participants, direct or indirect, of their respective obligations under the rules and procedures governing their operations.
Performance by DTC, Euroclear or Cede & Co
          SECTION 2.09 . If any provision of this First Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by operation of Section 318(c) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb), the imposed duties shall control.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
          SECTION 2.10 . The Article and Section headings herein have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Effect of Headings
          SECTION 2.12 . This First Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          SECTION 2.14 . Nothing in the Original Indenture, as supplemented, amended and modified by this First Supplemental Indenture, or in the Notes, expressed or implied, is intended or shall be construed to confer upon, or to give or grant to, any person or entity, other than the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the registered owners of the Notes, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of the Indenture or any covenant, condition or stipulation hereof, and all covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in the Indenture contained by and on behalf of the Company shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the registered owners of the Notes.
Provisions for the Sole Benefit of Parties and Holders
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
: BROADCAST SPORTS INC. D.P. ASSOCIATES, INC. ELECTRODYNAMICS, INC. INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES GROUP LTD. INTERSTATE ELECTRONICS CORPORATION LINCOM WIRELESS, INC. L-3 CHESAPEAKE SCIENCES CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ADVANCED LASER SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS AIS GP CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS APPLIED SIGNAL AND IMAGE TECHNOLOGY, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS AVIONICS SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CINCINNATI ELECTRONICS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CYTERRA CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS DYNAMIC POSITIONING AND CONTROL SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRON TECHNOLOGIES, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS EO/IR, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS EOTECH, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ESSCO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FLIGHT CAPITAL LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL AVIATION LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FOREIGN HOLDINGS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS GERMANY HOLDINGS, LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INFRAREDVISION TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INVESTMENTS INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS KLEIN ASSOCIATES, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS MARIPRO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS MOBILE-VISION, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS NOVA ENGINEERING, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY AND DETECTION SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SHARED SERVICES, LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SONOMA EO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS VECTOR INTERNATIONAL AVIATION LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS VERTEX AEROSPACE LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS WESTWOOD CORPORATION
Guarantors
 
L-3 FUZING AND ORDNANCE SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 G.A. INTERNATIONAL, INC. L-3 GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS SOLUTIONS, INC. L-3 SERVICES, INC. L-3 UNMANNED SYSTEMS, INC. MICRODYNE COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED MICRODYNE CORPORATION MICRODYNE OUTSOURCING INCORPORATED PAC ORD INC. POWER PARAGON, INC. SPD ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS, INC. SPD SWITCHGEAR INC. TITAN FACILITIES, INC.
As Guarantors
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INTEGRATED SYSTEMS L.P., a Delaware limited partnership
As a Guarantor
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,      as Trustee
 
     [Global Note] [Certificated Note]
          
[IF THIS SECURITY IS TO BE A GLOBAL NOTE, IT SHALL BEAR THE FOLLOWING LEGEND:]
          THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY.
          
[FOR AS LONG AS THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS DEPOSITED WITH OR ON BEHALF OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY IT SHALL BEAR THE FOLLOWING LEGEND:]
          THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY.
          UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (""), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR
DTC
 
OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO DTC, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
 
          L-3 Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer"), for value received promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Dollars[, or such greater or lesser amount as indicated on the Schedule I hereto,]on [          ], 2020.
                    
1
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this Security to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
Dated:
                    
                    
Attest:
 
 
Certificate of Authentication:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within- mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee
 
          This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of 4.750% Senior Notes Due 2020 (the "") of L-3 Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""). The Issuer issued the Securities under an Indenture dated as of May 21, 2010 (the "") among the Issuer, the guarantors listed on the signature pages thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of May  , 2010 (the "First Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Original Indenture, the ""). Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
Securities
Issuer
Original Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
     . The Issuer promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at % per annum from , 2011 until maturity. The Issuer will pay interest semiannually on [   ] and [   ] of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent interest payment date on which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from , 2010; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Security is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding interest payment date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding interest payment date; , , that the first interest payment date shall be [   ], 2011. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
1. Interest
                    
                    
provided
provided
further
     . The Issuer will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Securities at the close of business on the record date next preceding the interest payment date, even if such Securities are canceled after such record date and on or before such interest payment date. The Holder must surrender this Security to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Issuer will pay the principal of and interest on the Securities in money of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Such amounts shall be payable at the offices of the Trustee or any Paying Agent, provided that at the option of the Issuer, the Issuer may pay such amounts (1) by wire transfer with respect to Securities represented by a Global Note or (2) by check payable in such money mailed to a Holder's registered address with respect to any Security.
2. Method of Payment
     . Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Issuer may change any Paying Agent, Registrar, co-registrar or additional paying agent without notice to any Holder. The Issuer or any of the Issuer's subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
3. Paying Agent and Registrar
     . The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and the provisions made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb) (the ""), as in effect on the date of the First Supplemental Indenture; , that if any provision of the Indenture limits, qualifies or
4. Indenture
TIA
provided
 
conflicts with the duties imposed by operation of TIA Section 318(c), the imposed duties shall control. Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of such terms and provisions. The Securities are unsecured senior obligations of the Issuer and rank equally with all of the Issuer's existing and future unsecured indebtedness. The Indenture provides for the issuance of other series of debt securities thereunder.
     .
5. Optional Redemption
          (a) The Issuer may, at its option, redeem the Securities in whole at any time or in part from time to time, on at least 30 but not more than 60 days' prior notice, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
     (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities being redeemed, and
     (ii) the present value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on the Securities being redeemed on the redemption date, discounted to the date of redemption, on a semiannual basis, at the Treasury Rate plus [   ] basis points.
          (b) If the Issuer elects to redeem the Securities, it will also pay accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption, subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date. In determining the redemption price and accrued interest, interest will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
     .
6. Mandatory Redemption
          Except as set forth in paragraph 7 below, the Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Securities.
     .
7. Repurchase At Option Of Holder
          Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Issuer has exercised its right to redeem the Securities as described above, each Holder will have the right to require the Issuer to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Securities pursuant to the offer described below (the "") at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase (the ""), subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date; , that the Issuer will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Issuer and purchases all Securities validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer. Within 30 days following the date upon which any Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, or at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control Triggering Event but subject to the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, the Issuer will mail a notice to each Holder describing the events constituting a Change of Control Triggering Event
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
provided
 
(including the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control) and offering to repurchase Securities on the date specified in such notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""), pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture and described in such notice. The notice, if mailed prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control Triggering Event, will state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date. The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event.
Change of Control Payment Date
     .
8. Notice of Redemption
          Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Securities are to be redeemed at its registered address. Securities in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Securities held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Securities or portions thereof called for redemption.
     .
9. Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
          The Securities are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Securities may be registered and Securities may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Issuer need not exchange or register the transfer of any Security or portion of a Security selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part. Also, it need not exchange or register the transfer of any Securities for a period of 15 days before a selection of Securities to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding interest payment date.
     .
10. Persons Deemed Owners
          The registered Holder of a Security may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
     .
11. Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
          Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the Securities may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Securities may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities (including consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, the Securities). Without the consent of any Holder of a Security, the Indenture or the Securities may be amended or supplemented to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to
 
or in place of certificated Securities, to provide for the assumption of the Issuer's obligations to Holders of the Securities in case of a merger or consolidation, to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Securities or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder, to secure the Securities or to add additional guarantors), to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act or to conform the text of the Indenture or the Securities to any provision in the Prospectus, dated ___         , 2010, with respect to the Securities, under the caption "Description of the Senior Notes," to the extent that such provision was intended to be a verbatim recitation of the Indenture, the Subsidiary Guarantees or the Securities.
     .
12. Defaults and Remedies
          An "" means any of the following: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest with respect to, the Securities; (ii) default in payment when due of the principal of or premium, if any, on the Securities; (iii) failure by the Issuer to comply with the covenants contained in section 1.05 of the First Supplemental Indenture or section 5.1 of the Original Indenture; (iv) failure by the Issuer to comply with any of its other agreements in the Original Indenture or the Securities for 90 days after written notice is received by the Issuer and the Trustee from the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding; (v) default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness of the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date hereof, which default relates to a payment at final maturity or results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of all other Indebtedness that is not paid at final maturity or results in the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $100.0 million or more; (vi) failure by the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $100.0 million, which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (vii) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Issuer or any of its Significant Subsidiaries; and (viii) except as permitted by the Indenture, any Subsidiary Guarantee of a Significant Subsidiary shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid.
Event of Default
          If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities by notice in writing, may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest on all the Securities to be due and payable immediately. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, with respect to the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary, the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest on all the Securities will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders of the Securities may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Securities notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal, premium or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
 
          The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Securities waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Securities.
     .
13. Trustee Dealings with Issuer
          The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Issuer or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Issuer or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
     .
14. No Recourse against Others
          A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, of the Issuer or any Subsidiary of the Issuer, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Issuer or any Subsidiary of the Issuer under the Securities, the Indenture or the Subsidiary Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Securities.
     . The Securities shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
15. Authentication
     . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Securities as a convenience to the Holders of the Securities. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Securities and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed thereon.
16. CUSIP Numbers
     . In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this Security and the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall control. The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of New York.
17. Indenture to Control; Governing Law
     . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
18. Abbreviations and Definitions
          The Issuer will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Request may be made to:
L-3 Communications Corporation 600 Third Avenue, 34 Floor New York, New York 10016 Attention: Secretary Telephone: (212) 697-1111
th
 
          The initial aggregate principal amount of Securities evidenced by the Certificate to which this Schedule is attached is $. The notations on the following table evidence decreases and increases in the aggregate principal amount of Securities evidenced by such Certificate.
                    
 
 
          To assign this Security, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Security to
                    
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
          This assignment relates to $___principal amount of      % Senior Notes due 2020 of L-3 Communications Corporation held in ___book-entry or ___definitive form by (the "").
3
                    
Transferor
          The Transferor has requested the Trustee by written order to exchange or register the transfer of a Note or Notes.
Date:
                    
                    
 

Exhibit 5.1
May 21, 2010
L-3 Communications Corporation 600 Third Avenue, 34 Floor New York, NY 10016
th
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as counsel to L-3 Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the issuance of $800,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "Notes") issued by the Company and the subsidiaries of the Company named on Schedule I attached hereto (each, a "Delaware Guarantor" and collectively, the "Delaware Guarantors") and the non-Delaware subsidiaries of the Company named on Schedule II attached hereto (each, a "Non-Delaware Guarantor," collectively, the "Non-Delaware Guarantors," and taken together with the Delaware Guarantors, the "Guarantors") pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement dated May 18, 2010 (the "Underwriting Agreement") among the Company, the Guarantors and the Underwriters named on Schedule A to the Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriters").
 
     We have examined the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-165756) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company and the Guarantors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), as it became effective under the Securities Act; the Company's prospectus dated March 29, 2010 (the "Base Prospectus"), as supplemented by the prospectus supplement dated May 18, 2010 (the "Prospectus Supplement" and, together with the Base Prospectus, the "Prospectus"), filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act; the Indenture (including the guarantees set forth therein (the "Guarantees")) dated as of May 21, 2010, as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated as of May 21, 2010 (the "Indenture"), in each case among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (the "Trustee"), relating to the Notes; the global notes representing the Notes; and the Underwriting Agreement. In addition, we also have examined the originals, or duplicates or certified or conformed copies, of such corporate and other records, agreements, documents and other instruments and have made such other investigations as we have deemed relevant and necessary in connection with the opinions hereinafter set forth. As to questions of fact material to this opinion, we have relied upon certificates or comparable documents of public officials and of officers and representatives of the Company and the Guarantors.
     In rendering the opinions set forth below, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as duplicates or certified or conformed copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents.
 
     Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications, assumptions and limitations stated herein, we are of the opinion that:
     1. The Notes have been duly authorized, executed and issued by the Company and, assuming due authentication thereof by the Trustee and upon payment and delivery in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
     2. The Guarantees have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Delaware Guarantors and, assuming that the Guarantees are the valid and legally binding obligations of the Trustee, constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Delaware Guarantors, enforceable against the Delaware Guarantors in accordance with their terms.
     3. Assuming that the Guarantees have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Non-Delaware Guarantors and, assuming that Guarantees are the valid and legally binding obligation of the Trustee, the Guarantees constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Non-Delaware Guarantors, enforceable against the Non-Delaware Guarantors in accordance with their terms.
     Our opinions set forth above are subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
     We do not express any opinion herein concerning any law other than the law of the State of New York, the federal law of the United States, the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act and the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (including the statutory provisions, all applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting the foregoing).
     We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as Exhibit 5.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed with the Commission in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes by the Company and to the use of our name under the captions "Legal Matters" in the
 
Prospectus Supplement and Base Prospectus and "Material U.S. Federal Income and Estate Tax Consequences" in the Prospectus Supplement.
 
DELAWARE GUARANTORS
Broadcast Sports Inc., a Delaware corporation International Resources Group Ltd., a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications AIS GP Corporation, a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications Avionics Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications Cyterra Corporation, a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications Electron Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications EOTech, Inc., a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications ESSCO, Inc., a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications Flight Capital LLC, a Delaware limited liability company L-3 Communications Flight International Aviation LLC, a Delaware limited liability company L-3 Communications Foreign Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications Germany Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company L-3 Communications Integrated Systems L.P., a Delaware limited partnership L-3 Communications Investments Inc., a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications Klein Associates, Inc., a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications Security and Detection Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation L-3 Communications Shared Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability corporation L-3 Communications Vector International Aviation LLC, a Delaware limited liability company L-3 Communications Vertex Aerospace, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company L-3 Fuzing and Ordnance Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation L-3 Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation Lincom Wireless, Inc., a Delaware corporation Pac Ord Inc., a Delaware corporation Power Paragon, Inc., a Delaware corporation SPD Electrical Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation SPD Switchgear Inc., a Delaware corporation
 
NON-DELAWARE GUARANTORS
D.P. Associates Inc., a Virginia corporation Electrodynamics, Inc., an Arizona corporation Interstate Electronics Corporation, a California corporation L-3 Chesapeake Sciences Corporation, a Maryland corporation L-3 Communications Advanced Laser Systems Technology, Inc., a Florida corporation L-3 Communications Applied Signal and Image Technology, Inc., a Maryland corporation L-3 Communications Cincinnati Electronics Corporation, an Ohio corporation L-3 Communications Dynamic Positioning and Control Systems, Inc., a California corporation L-3 Communications EO/IR, Inc., a Florida corporation L-3 Communications InfraredVision Technology Corporation, a California corporation L-3 Communications MariPro, Inca California corporation L-3 Communications Mobile-Vision, Inc., a New Jersey corporation L-3 Communications Nova Engineering, Inc., an Ohio corporation L-3 Communications Sonoma EO, Inc., a California corporation L-3 Communications Westwood Corporation, a Nevada corporation L-3 G.A. International, Inc., a Florida corporation L-3 Global Communications Solutions, Inc., a Virginia corporation L-3 Unmanned Systems, Inc., a Texas corporation Microdyne Communications Technologies Incorporated, a Maryland corporation Microdyne Corporation, a Maryland corporation Microdyne Outsourcing Incorporated, a Maryland corporation Titan Facilities, Inc., a Virginia corporation
.,

Exhibit 99.1 EXECUTION VERSION
 
May 18, 2010
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC. DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC.      As Representatives of the several Underwriters
c/o BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC One Bryant Park New York , NY 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          L-3 Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such of $800,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020 (the ""). Banc of America Securities LLC ("BAS"), Barclays Capital Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
Introductory.
Company
Schedule A
Underwriters
Schedule A
Notes
Representatives
     The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of May 21, 2010 (the ""), among the Company, the Guarantors (as defined below) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture, dated as of the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the "") to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Notes will be guaranteed (the "") on an unsecured senior basis by each of the entities listed on hereto (the ""). The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a letter of representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the ""), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Guarantees
Exhibit A
Guarantors
Depositary
DTC Agreement
     The Company and the Guarantors have prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-165756), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations
Commission
Base Prospectus
 
promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "") by the parties hereto. The term "" shall mean the preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 2:45 p.m. on May 18, 2010 (the ""). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("").
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Execution Time
Preliminary Prospectus
Initial Sale Time
EDGAR
     All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
The Company and the Guarantors hereby confirm their agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
      Representations and Warranties of the Company and the Guarantors.
Section 1.
     The Company and the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally represent, warrant and covenant to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ""), as follows:
Representation Date
     a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
 
contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "").
Trust Indenture Act
     At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto (including the filing with the Commission of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the "")) became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Annual Report on Form 10-K
     Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
     b)The term "" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated May 18, 2010, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package.
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     c) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the
Incorporated Documents
 
Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     d). (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
     e). (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
     f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
     g)The Company and the Guarantors have not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto or any electronic road show or other written communications reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and listed on Annex II hereto (collectively, ""). Each such Company Additional Written Communication, when taken together with the Disclosure Package, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Company Additional Written Communication based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
Company Additional Written Communication
     h)There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
     i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Guarantors.
The Underwriting Agreement.
     j). The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and each of the Guarantors and, when duly executed by the proper officers of the Company and each of the Guarantors (assuming the Indenture is the valid and binding obligation of the Trustee), executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Guarantors, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company and each of the Guarantors, enforceable against the Company and each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) or an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing (the ""). The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
Authorization of the Indenture
Enforceability Exceptions
     k)The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized by the Company and, when executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered to the Underwriters against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, will be validly issued and delivered, and will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions.
Authorization of the Notes.
 
     l) . The Guarantees have been duly authorized by the Guarantors and, when executed and delivered by the Guarantors, and when the Notes have been duly authorized and executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered to the Underwriters against payment therefor on the Closing Date in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Guarantors entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions.
Authorization of the Guarantees
     m) The Notes, the Indenture and the Guarantees conform, or will conform, in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
     n)The statements in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Senior Notes," "Description of Senior Unsecured Notes" and "Material U.S. Federal Income and Estate Tax Consequences," in each case insofar as such statements constitute a summary of the legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.
     o). Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree and, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change (as defined below) (ii) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change, in the condition (financial or otherwise) or in the business, properties, stockholders' equity, results of operations or prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "").
No Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Change
     p) PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which have audited the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants.
     q) The financial statements and the notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the entities purported to be shown thereby at the dates and for the periods indicated and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods indicated and comply as to form in all material respects with the rules and regulations of the Commission, except as otherwise noted.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
 
     r)The Company and each of the Guarantors has been duly organized and is validly existing and in good standing as a corporation or other business entity under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization, with all power and authority necessary to conduct the business in which it is engaged or to own or lease its properties; and each of the Company and the Guarantors is duly qualified to do business and in good standing as a foreign corporation or other business entity in each jurisdiction in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change. All of the issued shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and nonassessable.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
     s) None of the execution or delivery of this Agreement by the Company and the Guarantors, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the execution and delivery of the Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees by the Company and the Guarantors, as applicable, or compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with all of the provisions of this Agreement, the Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees, as applicable, will result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under (i) the certificate of incorporation, by-laws, certificate of limited partnership, limited liability company agreement, partnership agreement or other constitutive documents of the Company, the Guarantors or any of the Company's significant subsidiaries (the Company's significant subsidiaries as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X are collectively referred to as the "Significant Subsidiaries"), (ii) any loan agreement, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of their properties is subject that is material to the financial condition or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (iii) any law or any rule, regulation, order or decree of any governmental agency or body or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any of the Guarantors or any of their respective properties or assets, except, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, for such breach, violation or default which, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is in violation or breach of its certificate of incorporation, by-laws, certificate of limited partnership, limited liability company agreement, partnership agreement or other constitutive documents, (ii) none of the Company, any of the Guarantors or any of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries is in default, and no event has occurred that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default, in the due performance or observance of any loan agreement, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it is bound or to which any of its properties or assets is subject, (iii) none of the Company, any of the Guarantors or any of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries is in violation of any law or any rule, regulation, order or decree of any governmental agency or body or court having jurisdiction over the Company or its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets or (iv) has failed to obtain any license, permit, certificate, franchise or other governmental authorization or permit necessary for the conduct of its business or the ownership or holding of its property, except in the case of clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv), to the extent any such violation, breach, default or failure would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change.
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
 
     t) No consent, approval, order or authorization of any governmental agency or body or court is required in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Indenture, the Notes or the Guarantees, except for such consents, approvals, orders and authorizations required under the securities or "Blue Sky" laws of certain jurisdictions, and except, further, for such consents, approvals, orders and authorizations which have been obtained and are in full force and effect.
Governmental Approvals.
     u) Except as described or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is no litigation or legal or governmental proceeding to which the Company or any Guarantor is a party or to which any property or assets of the Company or any Guarantor is subject or which is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Guarantor, threatened against the Company or any Guarantor which if adversely determined, would, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Change.
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
     v) None of the Company, the Guarantors or any of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries is involved in any strike, job action or labor dispute with any group of employees that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change, and, to the Company's knowledge, no such action or dispute is threatened.
Labor Matters.
     w) The Company, each of the Guarantors and each of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries own or possess adequate rights to use all material patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, licenses, inventions, trade secrets and other rights, and all registrations or applications relating thereto, described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus as being owned by them or necessary for the conduct of their business, except as such would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change (individually or in the aggregate), and the Company is not aware of any pending or threatened claim to the contrary or any pending or threatened challenge by any other person to the rights of the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to the foregoing which, if determined adversely to the Company and its subsidiaries, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect (individually or in the aggregate).
Intellectual Property Rights.
     x) There are no contracts or documents which would be required to be described in a prospectus contained in a registration statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act or by the rules and regulations thereunder which have not been described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
No Additional Documents.
     y) Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and except as disclosed or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there has not been any material change in the capital stock, membership, partnership or other equity interests or material increase in long-term debt of the Company or its subsidiaries or any Material Adverse Change, or any development involving or which would reasonably be expected to involve a Material Adverse Change.
Capital Stock and Long-Term Debt.
     z) Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and except as disclosed or contemplated in
Liabilities and Dividends.
 
the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries have not incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, or entered into any transaction, in each case not in the ordinary course of business, that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change or declared or paid any special dividend on its capital stock, partnership or other equity interests.
     aa) The Company has been advised of the rules and requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the ""). The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
Company Not an Investment Company.
Investment Company Act
     bb) The Company and the Guarantors have not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Notes to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.
     cc) To the best of the Company's knowledge, none of the Company, any of the Guarantors or any of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries, nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or other person associated with or acting on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, has (i) used any corporate funds for any unlawful contribution, gift, entertainment or other unlawful expense relating to political activity; (ii) made any direct or indirect unlawful payment to any foreign or domestic government official or employee from corporate funds; (iii) violated or is in violation of any provision of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977; or (iv) made any bribe, rebate, payoff, influence payment, kickback or other unlawful payment, except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change or as described in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
     dd) To the Company's knowledge, the operations of the Company, the Guarantors and the Company's subsidiaries are, and have been, conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the ""), and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company, the Guarantors or any of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, the Guarantors or any of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries, threatened, except for any such action, suit or proceeding as would not be reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
Money Laundering Laws
     ee) None of the Company, the Guarantors or any of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company or the Guarantors, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of the Guarantors is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
 
Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
OFAC
     ff) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (i) to the knowledge of the Company, there has been no storage, disposal, generation, manufacture, refinement, transportation, handling or treatment of toxic wastes, medical wastes, hazardous wastes or hazardous substances by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (or any of their predecessors in interest) at, upon or from any of the property now or previously owned or leased by the Company or its subsidiaries in violation of any applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, judgment, decree or permit or which would require remedial action under any applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, judgment, decree or permit, except for any violation or remedial action which would not have, or would not be reasonably likely to have, singularly or in the aggregate with all such violations and remedial actions, a Material Adverse Change; and (ii) to the knowledge of the Company, there has been no material spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release of any kind onto such property or into the environment surrounding such property of any toxic wastes, medical wastes, solid wastes, hazardous wastes or hazardous substances with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except for any such spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release which would not have or would not be reasonably likely to have, singularly or in the aggregate with all such spills, discharges, leaks, emissions, injections, escapes, dumpings and releases, a Material Adverse Change; and the terms "hazardous wastes," "toxic wastes," "hazardous substances" and "medical wastes" shall have the meanings specified in any applicable local, state, federal and foreign laws or regulations with respect to environmental protection.
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
     gg) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company is in compliance in all material respects with all presently applicable provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, including the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (""); no "reportable event" (as defined in ERISA) has occurred with respect to any "pension plan" (as defined in ERISA) subject to Title IV of ERISA for which the Company would have any material liability; the Company has not incurred and does not expect to incur any liability under (i) Title IV of ERISA with respect to termination of, or withdrawal from, any such "pension plan" or (ii) Sections 412 or 4971 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (the "") which, in the case of each of the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii), would result in a Material Adverse Change (other than contributions in the normal course which are not in default); and each "pension plan" for which the Company would have any liability that is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code is so qualified in all material respects and nothing has occurred, whether by action or by failure to act, which would reasonably be expected to cause the loss of such qualification.
ERISA Compliance.
ERISA
Code
     hh) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
 
regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the ""), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
     ii) The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect thereto. The Company's internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2009 and, to the Company's knowledge, continue to be effective in all material respects. The Company is not aware of any material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Controls and Procedures.
     jj) . The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act; and such disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the Company's reports under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, in order to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures; and such disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level at December 31, 2009 and, to the Company's knowledge, continue to be effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
     kk) . The Notes and the Guarantees will be with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company and the Guarantors, as applicable.
Ranking
pari passu
     Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
     
Section 2.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes.
          a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Notes set forth opposite such Underwriter's name on at a purchase price of 99.029% of the principal amount of the Notes, payable on the Closing Date. The Notes will have annexed thereto a notation relating to the Guarantees.
The Notes.
Schedule A
 
          b) Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Latham & Watkins LLP at 885 Third Avenue, New York, NY (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on May 21, 2010, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date.
Closing Date
          c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.
          d) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.
     It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
          e) The Company and the Guarantors shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.
     
Section 3.
Covenants of the Company.
     The Company and the Guarantors jointly and severally covenant and agree with each Underwriter as follows:
          a) The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
 
to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 of the Securities Act and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 of the Securities Act was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
          b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the ""), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
Prospectus Delivery Period
          c) The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements.
          d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
 
          e) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
          f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company and each of the Guarantors shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject the Company or any Guarantor to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company and each of the Guarantors will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company and each Guarantor shall use their respective best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance.
          g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
          h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
          i) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
 
the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
          j) . The Company and the Guarantors will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Underwriters and attached as hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the ""). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
Annex III
Final Term Sheet
          k) . The Company and the Guarantors represent that they have not made, and agree that, unless they obtain the prior written consent of the Representatives, they will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) it has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
          l) . If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company or any Guarantor receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company and the Guarantors will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use their best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company and the Guarantors will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
 
Company or any Guarantor has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
          m) . The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
          n) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company and the Guarantors will comply with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use their best efforts to cause the Company's and each Guarantor's respective directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
          o) Neither the Company nor any Guarantor will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Notes to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Manipulation of Price.
     The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company or the Guarantors of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
     The Company and the Guarantors agree to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of their obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's or any Guarantor's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company or any Guarantor, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company, the Guarantors or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee (including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee) in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-
Section 4.
Payment of Expenses.
 
entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of their obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
     The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Section 5.
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
          a) . The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A of the Securities Act).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
          b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC, an independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
          c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
          d) If the Registration Statement and/or the offering of the Notes has been filed with the FINRA for review, the FINRA shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection.
          e) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
 
     (i) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change;
     (ii) there shall not have been any change or decrease specified in the letter or letters referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section 5 which is, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Prospectus; and
     (iii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
          f) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion and negative assurance letter of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Company and the Guarantors, dated as of such Closing Date, substantially in the form of which is attached as and .
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
Exhibit B-1
Exhibit B-2
          g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Steven M. Post, General Counsel of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, substantially in the form of which is attached as .
Opinion of Steven M. Post.
Exhibit C
          h) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Latham & Watkins LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
          i) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate from the Company and the Guarantors executed by their respective Chairman of the Board or their respective Chief Executive Officer and by their respective Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
     (i) the Company and the Guarantors have received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission;
     (ii) the Company and the Guarantors have not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
     (iii) the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company and the Guarantors set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
 
     (iv) the Company and the Guarantors have complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
          j) DocumentsOn or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional
.
     If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
     If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5 or 11(i) or (iv), or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company or any Guarantor to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company and the Guarantors agree to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
Section 6.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
     This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Section 7.
Effectiveness of this Agreement.
     
Section 8.
Indemnification.
     (a) The Company and the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, and employees, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
 
alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by BAS) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company and the Guarantors may otherwise have.
provided, however
     (b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and the Guarantors, each of their respective directors, each of their respective officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company or the Guarantors within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company, the Guarantors or any such respective director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, the Guarantors or any such respective director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, any Guarantor or any such respective director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim,
Indemnification of the Company and the Guarantors.
 
damage, liability, expense or action. The Company and the Guarantors hereby acknowledge that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in paragraphs 8 and 9 under the heading entitled "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
     (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by BAS and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
     (d) The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
     If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Section 9.
Contribution.
 
     The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
     The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in . For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, and employee of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company and the Guarantors, each officer of the Company and the Guarantors who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or the Guarantors with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
Schedule A
     If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Section 10.
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
Schedule A
 
     As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
     Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; (iv) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Section 11.
Termination of this Agreement.
     . . Each of the Company and the Guarantors acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company and the Guarantors are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company, the Guarantors, or any of their respective affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company or the Guarantors with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company or the Guarantors on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company or the Guarantors with respect to
Section 12
No Fiduciary Duty
 
the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the Guarantors and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company and the Guarantors have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent deemed appropriate.
     This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company, the Guarantors and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company and the Guarantors hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
     The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company and the Guarantors, of their respective officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the Guarantors, the officers or employees of the Company or the Guarantors, or any person controlling the Company or the Guarantors, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
Section 13.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
     All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Section 14.
Notices.
     If to the Representatives:
Banc of America Securities LLC One Bryant Park NY1-100-18-03 New York, NY 10036 Facsimile: 646-855-5958 Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
with a copy to:
Latham & Watkins LLP 885 Third Avenue New York, NY 10022 Facsimile: 212-751-4864 Attention: Kirk A. Davenport II
     If to the Company or the Guarantors:
L-3 Communications Corporation 600 Third Avenue New York, NY 10016 Facsimile: 212-805-5306 Attention: Steven M. Post
 
with a copy to:
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP 425 Lexington Avenue New York, NY 10017 Facsimile: 212-455-2502 Attention: Avrohom J. Kess
     Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
     This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Section 15.
Successors.
     The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Section 16.
Partial Unenforceability.
     THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
Section 17.
Governing Law Provisions.
     This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 18.
General Provisions.
     Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
Exhibit 99.1 EXECUTION VERSION
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement among the Company, the Guarantors and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
: BROADCAST SPORTS INC. D.P. ASSOCIATES, INC. ELECTRODYNAMICS, INC. INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES GROUP LTD. INTERSTATE ELECTRONICS CORPORATION LINCOM WIRELESS, INC. L-3 CHESAPEAKE SCIENCES CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ADVANCED LASER SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS AIS GP CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS APPLIED SIGNAL AND IMAGE TECHNOLOGY, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS AVIONICS SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CINCINNATI ELECTRONICS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CYTERRA CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS DYNAMIC POSITIONING AND CONTROL SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRON TECHNOLOGIES, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS EO/IR, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS EOTECH, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ESSCO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FLIGHT CAPITAL LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL AVIATION LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FOREIGN HOLDINGS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS GERMANY HOLDINGS, LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INFRAREDVISION TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INVESTMENTS INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS KLEIN ASSOCIATES, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS MARIPRO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS MOBILE-VISION, INC.
Guarantors
 
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS NOVA ENGINEERING, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY AND DETECTION SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SHARED SERVICES, LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SONOMA EO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS VECTOR INTERNATIONAL AVIATION LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS VERTEX AEROSPACE LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS WESTWOOD CORPORATION L-3 FUZING AND ORDNANCE SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 G.A. INTERNATIONAL, INC. L-3 GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS SOLUTIONS, INC. L-3 SERVICES, INC. L-3 UNMANNED SYSTEMS, INC. MICRODYNE COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED MICRODYNE CORPORATION MICRODYNE OUTSOURCING INCORPORATED PAC ORD INC. POWER PARAGON, INC. SPD ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS, INC. SPD SWITCHGEAR INC. TITAN FACILITIES, INC.
As Guarantors
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INTEGRATED SYSTEMS L.P., a Delaware limited partnership
As a Guarantor
     By: L-3 COMMUNICATIONS AIS GP CORPORATION, as General Partner
 
     The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC. DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC.
By:      Banc of America Securities LLC
By:      Barclays Capital Inc.
By:      Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
By:      Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
 
 
Final Term Sheet dated May 18, 2010.
 
Electronic (Netroadshow) road show of the Company relating to the offering of the Notes dated May 18, 2010.
 
 
1) A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the active joint book-running managers can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by (i) calling or e-mailing Banc of America Securities LLC at 1-800-294-1322 or dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com; (ii) calling or e-mailing Barclays Capital Inc. at 1-888-603-5847 or barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com (iii) calling or e-mailing Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. at 1-800-503-4611 or prospectusrequest@list.db.com.
 
BROADCAST SPORTS INC. D.P. ASSOCIATES, INC. ELECTRODYNAMICS, INC. INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES GROUP LTD. INTERSTATE ELECTRONICS CORPORATION LINCOM WIRELESS, INC. L-3 CHESAPEAKE SCIENCES CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ADVANCED LASER SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS AIS GP CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS APPLIED SIGNAL AND IMAGE TECHNOLOGY, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS AVIONICS SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CINCINNATI ELECTRONICS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CYTERRA CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS DYNAMIC POSITIONING AND CONTROL SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRON TECHNOLOGIES, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS EO/IR, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS EOTECH, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS ESSCO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FLIGHT CAPITAL LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL AVIATION LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS FOREIGN HOLDINGS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS GERMANY HOLDINGS, LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INFRAREDVISION TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INTEGRATED SYSTEMS L.P. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INVESTMENTS INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS KLEIN ASSOCIATES, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS MARIPRO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS MOBILE-VISION, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS NOVA ENGINEERING, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY AND DETECTION SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SHARED SERVICES, LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SONOMA EO, INC. L-3 COMMUNICATIONS VECTOR INTERNATIONAL AVIATION LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS VERTEX AEROSPACE LLC L-3 COMMUNICATIONS WESTWOOD CORPORATION L-3 FUZING AND ORDNANCE SYSTEMS, INC. L-3 G.A. INTERNATIONAL, INC. L-3 GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS SOLUTIONS, INC. L-3 SERVICES, INC. L-3 UNMANNED SYSTEMS, INC. MICRODYNE COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED MICRODYNE CORPORATION MICRODYNE OUTSOURCING INCORPORATED
 
PAC ORD INC. POWER PARAGON, INC. SPD ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS, INC. SPD SWITCHGEAR, INC. TITAN FACILITIES, INC.
 
          1. Each of the Company and the Delaware Guarantors (other than L-3 Communications Flight Capital LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Flight Capital"), L 3 Communications Flight International Aviation LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Flight International"), L-3 Communications Vector International Aviation LLC ("Vector"), a Delaware limited liability company and L-3 Communications Vertex Aerospace LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Vertex" and, together with Flight Capital, Flight International and Vector, the "LLCs"), the New Delaware Guarantors and L-3 Communications Integrated Systems L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "LP")) has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and has full corporate power and authority necessary to conduct its respective businesses as described in the Prospectus.
          2. Each of the New Delaware Guarantors is validly existing as a corporation or limited liability company in good standing under the laws of Delaware, and has all corporate or limited liability company, as the case may be, power and authority necessary to conduct its respective businesses as described in the Prospectus.
          3. Each of the LLCs has been duly formed and is validly existing as a limited liability company in good standing under the laws of Delaware, and has all limited liability company power and authority necessary to conduct its respective businesses as described in the Prospectus.
          4. The LP has been duly formed and is validly existing as a limited partnership in good standing under the laws of Delaware, and has all limited partnership power and authority necessary to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus.
          5. The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and the Indenture (including the Guarantees) has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Delaware Guarantors and, assuming that the Indenture is the valid and legally binding obligation of the Trustee, constitutes a valid and legally binding obligation of the Company and the Delaware Guarantors enforceable against the Company and the Delaware Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
          6. Assuming that the Indenture (including the Guarantees) has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Non-Delaware Guarantors and assuming that the Indenture is the valid and legally binding obligation of the Trustee, the Indenture (including the Guarantees) constitutes a valid and legally binding obligation of the Non-Delaware Guarantors enforceable against the Non-Delaware Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
          7. The Notes have been duly authorized, executed and issued by the Company and, assuming due authentication thereof by the Trustee and upon payment and delivery in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and legally
 
binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
          8. The statements made in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Senior Notes" and "Description of Senior Unsecured Notes" insofar as they purport to constitute summaries of certain terms of documents referred to therein, constitute accurate summaries of the terms of such documents in all material respects.
          9. The statements made in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "Material U.S. Federal Income and Estate Tax Consequences," insofar as they purport to constitute summaries of matters of United States federal tax law and regulations or legal conclusions with respect thereto, constitute accurate summaries of the matters described therein in all material respects.
          10. The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Delaware Guarantors.
          11. The issue and sale of the Notes by the Company, the issue of the Guarantees by the Subsidiary Guarantors, the execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, as applicable, with all of the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement, and the execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors will not breach or result in a default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument filed as an exhibit to the Exchange Act documents, nor will such actions violate the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of the Company or the Delaware Guarantors (or, in the case of the LP, the Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of February 28, 2002, or, in the case of Flight Capital, the Limited Liability Company Agreement of Flight Capital dated as of November 18, 2002, or, in the case of Vector, the Limited Liability Company Agreement of Vector, dated as of January 16, 2003, or, in the case of Vertex, the Limited Liability Company Agreement of Vertex, dated as of July 21, 2001, or, in the case of Flight International, the Limited Liability Company Agreement of Flight International, dated as of November 18, 2002, or, in the case of L-3 Communications Shared Services, LLC ("Shared Services"), the Limited Liability Company Agreement of Shared Services, dated as of December 18, 2007, or, in the case of L-3 Communications Germany Holdings, LLC ("Germany Holdings"), the Limited Liability Company Agreement of Germany Holdings, dated as of November 13, 2006), or any federal or New York statute or the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act or the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act or any rule or regulation that has been issued pursuant to any federal or New York statute or the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act or the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act or any order known to us issued pursuant to any federal or New York statute or the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act or the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act by any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any federal or New York governmental agency or body or any Delaware governmental agency or body acting pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act or the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act or, to our
 
knowledge, any federal or New York court or any Delaware court acting pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act or the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act is required for the issuance and sale of the Notes by the Company or the issuance of the Guarantees by the Subsidiary Guarantors and the compliance by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors with all of the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture. No opinion is given in this paragraph 11 with respect to any federal or state securities law or any rule or regulation issued pursuant to any federal or state securities law.
          12. The Company is not an "investment company" within the meaning of and subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
          13. Each of the Registration Statement, as of the date it first became effective under the Securities Act, and the Prospectus, as of May 18, 2010 appeared, on its face, to be appropriately responsive, in all material respects, to the requirements of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, except that in each case we express no view with respect to the financial statements or other financial or statistical data contained in, incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in, or omitted from the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Exchange Act documents.
          14. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and, to our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued or proceeding for that purpose has been instituted or threatened by the Commission. The Preliminary Prospectus was filed on May 18, 2010 pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the rules and regulations of the Commission under the Securities Act, the Prospectus Supplement has been filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the rules and regulations of the Commission under the Securities Act and the free writing prospectus listed on Schedule A hereto has been filed in accordance with Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act.
 
          Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that (a) the Registration Statement (including the Exchange Act documents and the Prospectus deemed to be a part thereof) as of the time of the pricing of the offering of the Notes on May 18, 2010 contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (b) the Preliminary Prospectus (including the Exchange Act documents incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference therein) and the Free Writing Prospectus listed on Schedule I hereto, as of the time of the pricing of the offering of the Notes on May 18, 2010 contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (c) the Prospectus (including the Exchange Act documents incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference therein), as of May 18, 2010 or as of the date hereof, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except that we express no belief in any of clauses (a), (b) or (c) above with respect to the financial statements or other financial data contained in, incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in, or omitted from the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus or the Exchange Act documents.
 
          1. To my knowledge and except as otherwise disclosed or contemplated in the Prospectus (or in documents incorporated therein by reference), there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or threatened, against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject which, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, are reasonably likely to cause a Material Adverse Change.
          2. To my knowledge and except as otherwise disclosed or contemplated in the Prospectus (or in documents incorporated therein by reference), there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company and any person granting such person the right to require the Company to include such person's securities in the securities registered pursuant to the Registration Statement.
          3. The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
          Whenever a statement herein is qualified by "to my knowledge" or a similar phrase, it is intended that I do not have current, actual knowledge of the inaccuracy of such statement; however, except as expressly indicated, I have not undertaken any independent investigation to determine the accuracy of such statement and no inference should be drawn that I have any such knowledge solely from my position with the Company.
          I do not express any opinion herein concerning any law other than the federal law of the United States.


