FILE:LLL/LLL-8K-20100607160022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
(e) Effective June 1, 2010, the company entered into a professional services agreement with Carl E. Vuono, formerly Senior Vice President and President of L-3 Services Group, for certain transitional and advisory services. In connection therewith, Mr. Vuono will be paid $25,000 per month plus reimbursable expenses through May 2011.
 
     (D) EXHIBITS
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 7, 2010
 

, and its direct and indirect Subsidiaries (hereinafter "L-3" or "Buyer") desire to secure professional services, as identified herein; and
WHEREAS
L-3 Communications Corporation
, (hereinafter "Consultant"), desires to perform these professional services:
WHEREAS
Carl E. Vuono
, in consideration for these premises, the parties agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
 
 
 
 
 
, each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its duly authorized representative.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
Dated: June 1, 2010
 
Consultant will comply with the following practices when billing for direct out-of-pocket expenses.
 
This statement of work outlines the tasking associated with consulting services from Carl E. Vuono ("Consultant") under the Professional Services Agreement being executed simultaneously with this statement.
Consultant shall perform assigned tasks within the scope of the following:
Scope of Work:
Specific tasks within this scope of work shall be assigned to Consultant by Michael T. Strianese, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of L-3, Steven Kantor, Senior Vice President and President of L-3 Services Group, or their respective designees. Except with respect to in-person meetings and presentations, Consultant may perform all assigned tasks from home or at such other locations as are reasonably designated by him. Subject to availability, upon request Consultant will be provided reasonable access to visitors' officers at L-3 facilities and may reasonably utilize corporate infrastructure, resources and support services (computers and other IT equipment, secretarial services, copying, phone, etc.) as may be necessary or appropriate to perform assigned tasks. During the period of performance, Consultant shall be provided a visitor's/consultant's badge for access to L-3 facilities, which may be used only in accordance with the foregoing.
It is the expectation of the parties that the hours required to perform this scope of work will be below 20% of Consultant's typical hours while he was an L-3 employee. In the event that the parties mutually desire to increase this scope of work, the parties shall amend this agreement to detail the increased level of work required and shall adjust the rate of pay accordingly.
 
The period of performance is from 1 June 2010 until 31 May 2011.
Period of Performance:
$25,000 per month.
Rate of Pay:
The parties do not currently anticipate any significant travel requirements in connection with the performance of this statement of work. The guidelines in support of travel reimbursement are in accordance with the Professional Services Agreement (PSA) and will be reimbursed at actual cost. In the event the parties mutually agree to modify the anticipated travel requirements, the parties shall consider additional modifications to this statement of work as may be appropriate to compensate for this change.
Travel Requirements:
All questions pertaining to this Statement of Work are to be directed/coordinated with Michael T. Strianese, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, L-3 Communications Corporation, 600 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10016
Date: June 1, 2010
L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
By:
 /s/ Michael T. Strianese
                    
                    
                    
Name: Michael T. Strianese
Title: Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
 /s/ Carl E. Vuono
                    
                    
                    
                
Carl E. Vuono


