FILE:LLL/LLL-8K-20110428160556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
On April 26, 2011, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders. A quorum was present at the meeting as required by the Company's Amended and Restated By-Laws. The final results of voting for each matter submitted to a vote of stockholders at the meeting are as follows:
Proposal 1  Election of Directors
The following three individuals were elected to the Board of Directors to serve as directors until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2014 and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified.
Proposal 2  Ratification of the Appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm
The appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 was ratified. There were 87,849,407 votes for the appointment, 1,987,216 votes against the appointment and 250,748 abstentions.
Proposal 3  Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation: To approve, in a non-binding, advisory vote, the compensation paid to our named executive officers.
The stockholders approved, on an advisory, non-binding basis, the compensation of our named executive officers.
Proposal 4  Frequency of Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation: To determine, in a non-binding, advisory vote, whether a stockholder vote to approve the compensation paid to our named executive officers should occur every one, two or three years.
The stockholders voted for one year with respect to the frequency with which stockholders are provided a non-binding, advisory vote on the compensation paid to our named executive officers.
 
As described above, a majority of the votes cast voted, in an advisory, non-binding vote, in favor of having a stockholder vote to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers every year. In light of such vote, and consistent with the Company's recommendation, the Company's board of directors determined that it currently intends to include an advisory, non-binding vote to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers every year until the next required vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 28, 2011


