FILE:LLL/LLL-8K-20120425160424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
ITEM 5.02.
 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) As discussed below, on April 24, 2012, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting"), at which the Company's shareholders approved the Company's 2012 Cash Incentive Plan (the "Cash Plan"). The Cash Plan became effective as of the date of such shareholder approval. A description of the material features of the Cash Plan described above is set forth on pages 8 through 12 of the Company's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting filed on March 12, 2012 (the "Proxy Statement"), in the section entitled "Proposal 2. Approval of the L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. 2012 Cash Incentive Plan," which pages are incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Cash Plan is attached to the Proxy Statement as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 10.1.
ITEM 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
(a)(b) As discussed above, on April 24, 2012, the Company held its Annual Meeting as described in the Company's Proxy Statement. A quorum was present at the meeting as required by the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws. The immediately following chart sets forth the number of votes cast for and against, and the number of abstention votes and broker non-votes, with respect to each matter voted upon by the shareholders:
Proposal 1  Election of Directors
The following three individuals were elected to the Board of Directors to serve as directors until the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2015 and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified.
 
Proposal 2  Approval of the L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. 2012 Cash Incentive Plan.
The L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. 2012 Cash Incentive Plan was approved.
 
Proposal 3  Ratification of the Appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm
The appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012 was ratified.
 
Proposal 4  Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation: To approve, in a non-binding, advisory vote, the compensation paid to our named executive officers.
The stockholders approved, on an advisory, non-binding basis, the compensation paid to our named executive officers.
 
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 25, 2012
 


