FILE:LLL/LLL-8K-20120613162344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 13, 2012, L-3 Communications Corporation ("L-3"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. ("Holdings", and together with L-3, the "Company"), announced group leadership changes, which are discussed in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. In addition, the Company announced the retirement of James W. Dunn, Senior Vice President and President of L-3's Electronic Systems Group. Mr. Dunn will remain employed by the Company for a transition period through December 31, 2012.
In connection with his retirement from the Company, the Company entered into an agreement with Mr. Dunn, pursuant to which he will be entitled to, among certain other consideration: (1) a lump sum cash payment in the amount of $925,000 in respect of Mr. Dunn's 2012 annual cash bonus, payable when 2012 bonuses are paid to other Company employees, (2) cash payments totaling $975,000 payable in equal biweekly installments over the one-year period following Mr. Dunn's retirement, (3) an amendment to the terms governing the approximately 6,389 restricted stock units issued to Mr. Dunn in February 2012 to deem Mr. Dunn's retirement as meeting the requirements of the definition of "retirement" under the applicable award agreement so that the restricted stock units will continue to vest in accordance with their terms with delivery of the underlying shares on the regularly scheduled delivery dates, and (4) an amendment to the terms governing the performance unit awards granted to Mr. Dunn in February 2012 and the performance cash award granted to Mr. Dunn in February 2012 allowing Mr. Dunn's retirement to be treated as a "retirement" constituting a "qualified termination" as defined under the applicable performance award agreements, thereby providing Mr. Dunn with an opportunity to vest in a prorated portion of the respective performance awards (subject to the Company's actual performance over the remaining performance periods in accordance with the terms of the original award agreements). The agreement also provides for a general release of claims by Mr. Dunn in favor of the Company and a prohibition on Mr. Dunn soliciting the Company's employees during the twelve month period following his retirement from the Company.
In addition, the Company has entered into a consulting arrangement with Mr. Dunn for a period of twelve months that commences upon his retirement whereby he will provide certain consulting services that may be requested by the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from time to time. Mr. Dunn will receive a monthly fee of $25,000 in consideration for these consulting services during the consulting period and has agreed to refrain from competing with the Company while he is receiving these consulting fees.
The foregoing summary of the agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the agreement itself, which is filed hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(D) EXHIBITS
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: June 13, 2012

Exhibit 10.1
THIS RETIREMENT AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE (the "Agreement") is entered into as of June 13, 2012 by and between James W. Dunn (hereinafter "Executive"), on the one hand, and Electronic Systems Group, L-3 Communications Corporation and L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. (collectively, "L-3"), on the other hand (Executive and L-3 are sometimes collectively referred to as the "Parties").
WHEREAS, Executive and L-3 have come to an agreement regarding Executive's retirement from L-3;
WHEREAS, the Parties understand and agree that neither the making of this Agreement, nor anything contained herein, shall, in any way, be construed or considered to be an admission by L-3 of wrongdoing or noncompliance with any federal, state, or local statute, public policy, tort law, contract law, common law or of any other civil wrongdoing whatsoever.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED BY THE PARTIES THAT:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In consideration for Executive's execution and non-revocation of the General Release attached hereto as Exhibit B on or after the Retirement Date, and the other duties and obligations set forth in this Agreement, L-3 agrees to the following subject to the occurrence of and effective upon the Exhibit B Effective Date:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
L-3 Communications Corporation, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. and Electronic Systems Group (hereinafter collectively, "L-3") and James W. Dunn (hereinafter "Executive" or the "Releasor"), have agreed it is mutually advantageous for Executive's employment with L-3 to end on December 31, 2012, and have entered into a confidential Retirement Agreement (the "Agreement") dated as of June 13, 2012 concerning the terms and conditions of Executive's employment and retirement from employment. Executive has agreed to execute this General Release. This General Release and the Agreement shall be considered together as one document.
In consideration for Executive's signing (and not revoking during the Revocation Period provided for in the Agreement) this General Release, L-3 will provide Executive with the payments and other benefits and obligations described in the Agreement on the terms set forth therein. These benefits are available to Executive only as consideration for timely signing (and not revoking) the Agreement and General Release.
Executive, for and in consideration of the payments and other obligations contained in the Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, hereby releases, waives and forever discharges, and by this General Release does release, waive and forever discharge, L-3, including any successors and assigns, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, merged entities and parent entities, and their respective officers, directors, stockholders, employees, benefit plan administrators and trustees, agents, attorneys, insurers, representatives, affiliates, successors and assigns (collectively, the "Released Parties") of and from any and all claims, debts, obligations, promises, covenants, agreements, contracts, endorsements, bonds, controversies, suits or causes whatsoever, whether known or unknown, of every kind and nature whatsoever, which may heretofore have existed or which may now exist, arising from Executive's employment with L-3, Executive's retirement from that employment or otherwise, which Executive ever had or now has upon or by reason of any matter, cause or thing, up to and including the day on which Executive signs this General Release. Executive agrees that this General Release constitutes a full, complete and knowing waiver and release of all such claims, whether arising under common law, policy, contract (whether oral or written, express or implied), tort law or any other local, state or federal law, regulation or ordinance. Such released claims include, but are not limited to, all claims or causes of action for discrimination, defamation, libel, personal injury, property damage or whistleblower claims, as well as those arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Sections 1981 through 1988 of Title 42 of the United States Code, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the False Claims Act, the New York Human Rights Law, the New York Executive Law, the Administrative Code of the City of New York, and all other federal, state and local laws (including the common law) of any type or description relating to employment matters, arising out of or derivative from Executive's employment with L-3, his retirement from employment with L-3 or otherwise.
 
This release of claims includes, but is not limited to, Executive's waiver and release of any right or claim that he may have or assert to compensation, wages, overtime, back pay, reinstatement or re-employment, profit sharing and/or equity generally, bonuses, benefits of any kind or any nature arising or derivative from his employment with L-3, his retirement from employment with L-3, or otherwise, including but not limited to those arising in tort contract or any statute. This General Release is not intended to affect Executive's rights, if any, to post-termination benefits to which he may be entitled under L-3 benefit plans (including any vested pension benefits) and in accordance with their terms, Executive's rights under the Agreement, or claims that cannot be waived as a matter of law.
By signing this Agreement and General Release, Executive acknowledges that Executive has relied entirely upon Executive's own judgment, and that Executive has had the opportunity to consult with legal, financial and other personal advisors of Executive's own choosing in assessing whether to execute this Agreement and General Release. Executive represents and warrants that no representation, statement, promise, inducement, threat or suggestion has been made by L-3 or any other Released Parties to influence Executive to sign this Agreement and General Release except such statements as are expressly set forth herein. Executive understands that by signing this Agreement and General Release, Executive is releasing L-3 of all claims against it. Executive has read this Agreement and General Release and understands its terms, Executive has been given a reasonable period of time to consider its terms and effect and to ask any questions Executive may have, and Executive voluntarily agrees to the terms of this Agreement and General Release.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the RELEASOR has hereunto set his hand and seal the 13
th
day of June, 2012.
 
 
On June 13, 2012, before me personally came James W. Dunn, to me known and known to me to be the individual described herein, and who executed the foregoing General Release, and duly acknowledged to me that he executed the same.
 
 
 
L-3 Communications Corporation, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. and Electronic Systems Group (hereinafter collectively, "L-3") and James W. Dunn (hereinafter "Executive" or the "Releasor"), have agreed it is mutually advantageous for Executive's employment with L-3 to end on December 31, 2012, and have entered into a confidential Retirement Agreement (the "Agreement") dated as of June 13, 2012 concerning the terms and conditions of Executive's employment and retirement from employment. Executive has agreed to execute this General Release. This General Release and the Agreement shall be considered together as one document.
In consideration for Executive's signing (and not revoking during the Revocation Period provided for below) this General Release, L-3 will provide Executive with the payments and other benefits and obligations described in the Agreement on the terms set forth therein. These benefits are available to Executive only as consideration for timely signing (and not revoking) the Agreement and General Release.
Executive, for and in consideration of the payments and other obligations contained in Paragraphs 6(b) through 6(f) of the Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, hereby releases, waives and forever discharges, and by this General Release does release, waive and forever discharge, L-3, including any successors and assigns, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, merged entities and parent entities, and their respective officers, directors, stockholders, employees, benefit plan administrators and trustees, agents, attorneys, insurers, representatives, affiliates, successors and assigns (collectively, the "Released Parties") of and from any and all claims, debts, obligations, promises, covenants, agreements, contracts, endorsements, bonds, controversies, suits or causes whatsoever, whether known or unknown, of every kind and nature whatsoever, which may heretofore have existed or which may now exist, arising from Executive's employment with L-3, Executive's retirement from that employment or otherwise, which Executive ever had or now has upon or by reason of any matter, cause or thing, up to and including the day on which Executive signs this General Release. Executive agrees that this General Release constitutes a full, complete and knowing waiver and release of all such claims, whether arising under common law, policy, contract (whether oral or written, express or implied), tort law or any other local, state or federal law, regulation or ordinance. Such released claims include, but are not limited to, all claims or causes of action for discrimination, defamation, libel, personal injury, property damage or whistleblower claims, as well as those arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Sections 1981 through 1988 of Title 42 of the United States Code, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the False Claims Act, the New York Human Rights Law, the New York Executive Law, the Administrative Code of the City of New York, and all other federal, state and local laws (including the common law) of any type or description relating to employment matters, arising out of or derivative from Executive's employment with L-3, his retirement from employment with L-3 or otherwise.
 
This release of claims includes, but is not limited to, Executive's waiver and release of any right or claim that he may have or assert to compensation, wages, overtime, back pay, reinstatement or re-employment, profit sharing and/or equity generally, bonuses, benefits of any kind or any nature arising or derivative from his employment with L-3, his retirement from employment with L-3, or otherwise, including but not limited to those arising in tort, contract or any statute. This General Release is not intended to affect Executive's rights, if any, to post-termination benefits to which he may be entitled under L-3 benefit plans and in accordance with their terms, Executive's rights under the Agreement, or claims that cannot be waived as a matter of law.
Executive acknowledges that Executive is waiving and releasing any rights Executive may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA") and that this waiver and release is knowing and voluntary. Executive acknowledges that the consideration given for this General Release is in addition to anything of value to which Executive is already entitled. Executive further acknowledges that Executive has been advised by this writing that: (i) Executive should consult with an attorney prior to executing this General Release; (ii) Executive has up to twenty-one (21) days from December 31, 2012 within which to consider this General Release, although Executive may, at Executive's discretion, sign and return the General Release at any time on or after December 31, 2012, in which case Executive waives all rights to the balance of this twenty-one (21) day review period; (iii) Executive has seven (7) days following Executive's execution of this General Release to revoke this General Release (the "Revocation Period"); (iv) this General Release, including the ADEA waiver, shall not be effective until the Revocation Period has expired; and (v) nothing in the Agreement or the General Release prevents or precludes Executive from challenging or seeking a determination in good faith of the validity of this waiver under the ADEA, nor does it impose any condition precedent, penalties or costs for doing so, unless specifically authorized by federal law. Executive acknowledges that if Executive has not returned the signed General Release within the time permitted, then the offer of payments and benefits set forth in Paragraphs 6(b) through 6(f) of the Agreement will expire by its own terms at such time. Executive also recognizes that revocation of this General Release must be in writing and must be delivered to John M. Hill, by certified mail or courier service (signature of receipt required).
This General Release shall not become effective until the eighth (8th) day following the date on which Executive signs this General Release (the "Exhibit B Effective Date"), provided Executive has not revoked the Agreement and this General Release, and Executive acknowledges that no payments or benefits under Paragraphs 6(b) through 6(f) of the Agreement shall be due, owing or paid by or on behalf of L-3 unless and until this General Release becomes effective.
Executive represents and warrants that he has not instituted any action, complaint, charge, arbitration or any similar proceeding against L-3 or the Released Parties based upon any conduct up to and including the date of this General Release, and Executive shall not seek or accept any award, damages, recovery or settlement from any source or proceeding pertaining to his employment with L-3, his retirement from L-3 or otherwise.
 
By signing this Agreement and General Release, Executive acknowledges that Executive has relied entirely upon Executive's own judgment, and that Executive has had the opportunity to consult with legal financial and other personal advisors of Executive's own choosing in assessing whether to execute this Agreement and General Release. Executive represents and warrants that no representation, statement, promise, inducement, threat or suggestion has been made by L-3 or any other Released Parties to influence Executive to sign this Agreement and General Release except such statements as are expressly set forth herein. Executive understands that by signing this Agreement and General Release, Executive is releasing L-3 of all claims against it. Executive has read this Agreement and General Release and understands its terms, Executive has been given a reasonable period of time to consider its terms and effect and to ask any questions Executive may have, and Executive voluntarily agrees to the terms of this Agreement and General Release.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the RELEASOR has hereunto set his hand and seal the     day of         , 2012.
 
 
On             , 2012, before me personally came James W. Dunn, to me known and known to me to be the individual described herein, and who executed the foregoing General Release, and duly acknowledged to me that he executed the same.
 
 
 
This CONSULTING AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into on June 13, 2012 by and between James W. Dunn (hereinafter "Consultant"), on the one hand, and L-3 Communications Corporation ("L-3" or the "Company"), on the other hand (Consultant and L-3 are sometimes collectively referred to as the "Parties"). The Parties are entering into this Agreement in accordance with the Retirement Agreement and General Release entered into between them on June 13, 2012 (the "Retirement Agreement"), which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Agreement.
 
Consultant and L-3 have agreed that, subject to Paragraph 4(b) below, Consultant shall provide consulting services to L-3 as may be requested by the Chief Executive Officer of L-3 from time to time and in his discretion (the "Consulting Services").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consultant agrees that all work that Consultant prepares on Company's behalf during the performance of the Consulting Services ("Work Product") is a work-for-hire, owned exclusively by Company. Consultant hereby assigns to Company any rights Consultant may have in such Work Product and Consultant agrees that Company shall be deemed the sole author and owner of any copyrightable material created under this agreement.
 
L-3 may terminate this Agreement immediately and all payments due hereunder shall be forfeited (i) in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 13 of the Retirement Agreement or (ii) if in rendering the Consulting Services, Consultant makes improper payments, engages in unlawful conduct, or any part of the fee or expenses payable under this Agreement is used for an illegal purpose.
 
Consultant shall not assign, transfer, or subcontract any of his obligations hereunder without the prior consent of Company. Company may assign its rights and obligations hereunder to any subsidiary, affiliate, or successor in interest without the consent of Consultant.
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. If any part of this Agreement is found to be unenforceable, the rest will remain in full force and effect. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior representations, proposals and communications, whether oral or in writing, in each case with respect to the subject matter contained herein, excluding the Retirement Agreement and any insurance policies or benefit plans providing Consultant with any post-employment rights (including any vested pension, benefits), which shall survive this Agreement. This Agreement may be modified only in writing signed by both Consultant and Company.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK, June 13, 2012  L-3 Communications (NYSE: LLL) announced today that Steve Kantor, L-3 senior vice president and president of L-3 Services Group, which includes its national security solutions business, has been appointed president of the company's Electronic Systems Group. Mr. Kantor will succeed James W. Dunn, who will retire in December of 2012. Les Rose has been appointed as vice president of L-3 and president of the company's National Security Solutions Group. These appointments are effective July 31, 2012. Messrs. Kantor and Rose will report to L-3 chairman, president and chief executive officer Michael T. Strianese.
"I am proud to work with a management team with such broad depth and talent. Steve's extensive defense industry experience, track record of performance and proven capability managing global organizations across all market cycles make him an excellent choice to lead L-3's Electronic Systems Group and continue the operational achievements of Jim Dunn," said Mr. Strianese. "Steve's strong management focus will ensure the ongoing success of Electronic Systems, which is well-positioned for the current environment and has active programs and initiatives in a number of priority spending areas."
"Les Rose's decades of experience and expertise in the government IT services sector has prepared him to lead National Security Solutions as it refocuses itself after the Engility spin-off," continued Mr. Strianese.
"On behalf of the Board of Directors, we appreciate Jim's dedication, hard work and contributions to L-3 over the last 12 years," concluded Mr. Strianese. "During his tenure as leader of Electronic Systems, he successfully expanded L-3's role as a supplier of advanced products and systems and consistently delivered strong results and excellent program performance. We wish him well in the future."
Mr. Kantor has served as senior vice president and president of L-3 Services Group since 2010. He has held a series of progressively responsible positions since joining L-3 in 2003 and served as president of L-3's Marine and Power Systems Group from 2008 to 2010. Earlier in his career, he held senior executive positions at BAE Systems, Loral, Lockheed Martin and United Technologies.
Mr. Rose is currently the president of L-3's STRATIS division and brings to his new position significant management and engineering experience, including a career with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Mr. Rose joined L-3 in 2005 and has held a variety of executive management positions at contractors focused on the federal and IT services marketplace.
Headquartered in New York City, L-3 employs approximately 61,000 people worldwide and is a prime contractor in C
3
ISR (Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance) systems, aircraft modernization and maintenance, and government services. L-3 is also a leading provider of a broad range of electronic systems used on military and commercial platforms. The company reported 2011 sales of $15.2 billion.
To learn more about L-3, please visit the company's website at . L-3 uses its website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding L-3 is routinely posted on the company's website and is readily accessible.
www.L-3com.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this news release are forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "will," "could" and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements set forth above involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any such statement, including the risks and uncertainties discussed in the company's Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements included in the company's recent filings, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.


