Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis presents the factors that had a material effect on the results of operations of Edwards Lifesciences during the three years ended December 31, 2004. Also discussed is Edwards Lifesciences financial position as of December 31, 2004. You should read this discussion in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Overview Edwards Lifesciences is a global provider of products and technologies that are designed to treat advanced cardiovascular disease. Edwards Lifesciences focuses on providing products and technologies to address specific cardiovascular opportunities: heart valve disease; peripheral vascular disease; and critical care technologies. The products and services provided by Edwards Lifesciences to treat cardiovascular disease are categorized into five main areas: Heart Valve Therapy; Critical Care; Cardiac Surgery Systems; Vascular and Other Distributed Products. Edwards Lifesciences heart valve therapy portfolio is comprised of tissue heart valves and heart valve repair products. A pioneer in the development and commercialization of heart valve products, Edwards Lifesciences is the worlds leading manufacturer of tissue heart valves and repair products used to replace or repair a patients diseased or defective heart valve. In the critical care area, Edwards Lifesciences is a world leader in hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patients heart function, in disposable pressure transducers, and in central venous access products for fluid and drug delivery. The Companys cardiac surgery systems portfolio comprises a diverse line of products for use during cardiac surgery including oxygenators, blood containers, filters and other disposable products used during cardiopulmonary bypass procedures, as well as cannulae and transmyocardial revascularization ("TMR") technology. Edwards Lifesciences vascular portfolio includes a line of balloon catheter based products, surgical clips and inserts, angioscopy equipment, artificial implantable grafts, and stents used in the treatment of peripheral vascular disease. Lastly, other distributed products include sales of intra aortic balloon pumps and other products sold primarily though the Companys distribution network in Japan. The healthcare marketplace continues to be competitive with strong local and global competitors resulting in pressure on maintaining market share. Global demand for healthcare is increasing as the population ages. There is mounting pressure to contain healthcare costs in the face of this increasing demand, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Management expects these trends to continue. Joint Venture in Japan Prior to October 1, 2002, the cardiovascular business in Japan was being operated pursuant to a joint venture. A subsidiary of Edwards Lifesciences held a 90% profit interest and (a) recognized its shipments into the joint venture as sales at distributor price at the time the joint venture sold to the end customer and (b) utilized the equity method of accounting to record its 90% profit interest in the operations of the joint venture in Other Income. On October 1, 2002, the Company acquired the cardiovascular business in Japan from Baxter and began reporting the results of the Japan business on a fully consolidated basis. The acquisition did not materially impact the Companys net income as the terms of the joint venture agreement enabled Edwards Lifesciences to record substantially all of the net profit generated by the Japan business. 24 Results of Operations Net Sales Trends The following is a summary of United States and international net sales (dollars in millions): Years Ended December 31, Percent Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 United States $ 416.5 $ 384.3 $ 383.3 8.4 % 0.3 % International 515.0 476.2 320.7 8.1 % 48.5 % Total net sales $ 931.5 $ 860.5 $ 704.0 8.3 % 22.2 % The increase in net sales in the United States in 2004 was due primarily to increased sales in heart valve therapy products, which was driven by sales of the Companys Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT and PERIMOUNT Magna aortic valves and the PERIMOUNT valves with Tricentrix holder. The increases in international net sales in 2004 can be explained primarily by: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations which increased net sales by $38.5 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); heart valve therapy products, which increased net sales by $15.5 million driven primarily by strong PERIMOUNT valve sales in Europe; partially offset by a decrease in net sales of $14.9 million due to the sale of the Companys German and Italian perfusion services businesses and the discontinuation of the Lifepath AAA program and a decrease in net sales in Japan resulting primarily from reimbursement changes. The increase in international net sales in 2003 was due primarily to the following: the change in accounting for Japan (see "Joint Venture in Japan") increased net sales by $77.9 million; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased net sales by $46.7 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Japanese yen against the United States dollar); and increased sales of heart valve therapy and vascular products (see below). The impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on net sales would not necessarily be indicative of the impact on net income due to the corresponding effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on international manufacturing and operating costs, and Edwards Lifesciences hedging activities. For more information see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk." Net Sales by Product Line The following is a summary of net sales by product line (dollars in millions): Years Ended December 31, Percent Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Heart Valve Therapy $ 419.2 $ 366.4 $ 314.5 14.4 % 16.5 % Critical Care 302.3 278.8 230.3 8.4 % 21.1 % Cardiac Surgery Systems 107.3 115.0 94.6 (6.7 %) 21.6 % Vascular 60.1 55.9 51.3 7.5 % 9.0 % Other Distributed Products 42.6 44.4 13.3 (4.1 %) 233.8 % Total net sales $ 931.5 $ 860.5 $ 704.0 8.3 % 22.2 % 25  Heart Valve Therapy The net sales growth of heart valve therapy products in 2004 can be explained primarily by: pericardial tissue valves increased net sales by $37.9 million primarily as a result of strong market adoption of the Companys Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna valve in the United States and Europe; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $14.3 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Japanese yen against the United States dollar); heart valve repair products increased net sales by $5.6 million; partially offset by decreased sales of porcine tissue valves of $5.1 million. The net sales growth of heart valve therapy products in 2003 resulted primarily from the following: pericardial tissue valves increased net sales by $18.4 million; currency exchange rate fluctuations increased net sales by $16.5 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Japanese yen against the United States dollar); the change in accounting for Japan increased net sales by $7.9 million; and heart valve repair products increased net sales by $6.7 million. As the Companys Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna valve and the other recently introduced products have been well received globally, the Company expects that sales growth of heart valve therapy products in 2005 will exceed 10%. The Company will expand the availability of its Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna valve with ThermaFix, an anti calcification process, in 2005 and expects the enhancement to drive further adoption among younger patients. In Japan, where only one competitor offered a stentless valve, the Company has received both regulatory clearance and reimbursement approval of its Edwards PrimaPlus stentless valve. PrimaPlus stentless valves expand the Companys product offering into the niche stentless valve market and strengthens the Companys market position in this region. The Company expects to strengthen its market leadership position in heart valve repair products with the introduction in the second half of 2005 of a new product with an indication specific design. Critical Care The net sales growth of critical care products in 2004 can be explained primarily by: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $13.4 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); market share gains in pressure monitoring products, which increased net sales by $8.4 million; and overall strong sales demand in markets outside of Europe and Japan; partially offset by decreased sales of base catheter products, which decreased net sales by $6.1 million, and recent reimbursement decreases in Japan. The net sales growth of critical care products in 2003 resulted primarily from the following: the change in accounting for Japan increased net sales by $20.8 million; currency exchange rate fluctuations increased net sales by $16.6 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Japanese yen against the United States dollar); and 26 strong sales in global pressure monitoring products and overall strong sales demand in emerging global markets. Critical care products have been, and are expected to be, significant contributors to the Companys total sales. Minimally invasive monitoring systems, featuring the Companys FloTrac system, represent a new and potentially market expanding opportunity for the Company. The Company received 510(k) clearance for the FloTrac system in January 2005 and expects to launch this product during the second quarter of 2005. Cardiac Surgery Systems The net sales decrease of cardiac surgery systems in 2004 can be explained primarily by: the sale of the Companys German and Italian perfusion services businesses in July 2003 and June 2004, respectively, which decreased net sales by $11.4 million; perfusion products in Japan, which decreased net sales by $3.8 million; partially offset by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $5.0 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); and cannula products which increased net sales by $3.3 million. The net sales growth of cardiac surgery systems for 2003 resulted primarily from the following: the change in accounting for Japan increased net sales by $16.6 million; currency exchange rate fluctuations increased net sales by $6.4 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Japanese yen against the United States dollar); partially offset by: the reduction of low margin distributed product sales in North America, which decreased net sales by $3.9 million; and the sale of the Companys German perfusion services subsidiary in July 2003, which decreased net sales by $3.2 million. During the second quarter of 2004, the Company completed the sale of its Italian perfusion services business, which generated approximately $4.3 million of revenue in fiscal year 2003. In January 2005, the Company sold its Japan perfusion products business and expects to complete the transition of this business to the buyer in 2006. This business generated approximately $26.4 million in sales in 2004. Throughout the transition period, the Company will continue to act as supplier and expects sales of approximately half the level of 2004. Vascular The net sales growth of vascular products for 2004 resulted primarily from the following: currency exchange rate fluctuations increased net sales by $2.6 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); sales of interventional products which increased net sales by $2.4 million; partially offset by the discontinuation of the Lifepath AAA program effective June 30, 2004, which decreased net sales by $2.6 million. 27 The net sales growth of vascular products for 2003 resulted primarily from the following: currency exchange rate fluctuations increased net sales by $3.8 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); the change in accounting for Japan increased net sales by $2.0 million; Lifepath AAA sales increased net sales by $1.3 million, primarily in Europe; partially offset by continued declines in base vascular products. During 2004, the Company continued to introduce LifeStent products in the United States and Europe. The Company believes the supply constraints experienced during 2004 have been resolved and sales are expected to increase during 2005. Customer feedback on the LifeStent products has been positive, and the Company continues to believe that there is a large opportunity in the peripheral stent market. Other Distributed Products The decrease in net sales of other distributed products in 2004 was due primarily to the Companys de emphasis of certain lower margin distributed cardiology products in Japan. The net sales for 2003 increased primarily due to the impact of the change in accounting for Japan. The Company discontinued sales in Japan of certain lower margin distributed cardiology products effective September 2004. Additionally, the Company discontinued its distributed, low margin pacemaker business in Japan, in the first quarter of 2005. This product line generated sales of approximately $10.9 million in 2004. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, Percentage Point Increase 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 60.3 % 58.2 % 57.5 % 2.1 pts. 0.7 pts. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales for 2004 increased compared to the prior year due primarily to the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations, including hedging activities (1.3 percentage points), the elimination of certain lower margin businesses (0.6 percentage points), and increased sales of higher margin products partially offset by reimbursement decreases in Japan. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales for 2003 resulted primarily from improved manufacturing performance (1.9 percentage points) and the benefit of the consolidation of the Japan business effective October 1, 2002 (0.7 percentage points), partially offset by increased hedging expenses (2.1 percentage points). Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses Years Ended December 31, Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 SG&A expenses $ 319.9 $ 289.9 $ 227.9 $ 30.0 $ 62.0 SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales 34.3 % 33.7 % 32.4 % 0.6 pts. 1.3 pts. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2004 was due primarily to higher international expenses due to changes in foreign exchange rates ($12.6 million) and higher sales and marketing expenses in the peripheral stent and heart valve therapy product lines in the United States. 28 The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 resulted primarily from the change in accounting for the Japan business effective October 1, 2002 ($34.0 million), the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations, primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Japanese yen against the United States dollar ($12.8 million), and activities in support of increased sales. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales for 2004 was due primarily to the increased investment in United States sales and marketing expenses in the peripheral stent and heart valve therapy product lines, partially offset by the cost reductions made in the third quarter of 2003. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales for 2003 resulted primarily from the consolidation of the Japan business effective October 1, 2002 (1.1 percentage point increase) and foreign currency rate fluctuations (0.2 percentage point increase, primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Japanese yen against the United States dollar). Research and Development Expenses Years Ended December 31, Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Research and development expenses $ 87.0 $ 72.8 $ 65.2 $ 14.2 $ 7.6 Research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales 9.3 % 8.5 % 9.3 % 0.8 pts. (0.8) pts. The increase in research and development expenses for 2004 resulted primarily from additional investment in the Companys percutaneous valve programs and the amortization of the Percutaneous Valve Technologies, Inc. ("PVT") intangibles of $14.4 million, partially offset by reduced spending in the Lifepath AAA program. The increases in research and development expenses for 2003 resulted primarily from investments in a broad range of interventional technologies, including market expanding endovascular heart valve repair and replacement therapies, investments in the Companys peripheral vascular disease platform and other growth initiatives. Research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales for 2004 increased compared to the prior year due primarily to the amortization and additional research and development spending related to PVT. The decrease in research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales for 2003 resulted primarily from the consolidation of the Japan business effective October 1, 2002. Purchased in process Research and Development Expenses On September 29, 2004, the Company acquired all technology and intellectual property associated with ev3, Inc.s ("ev3") percutaneous mitral valve repair program for total consideration of $15.0 million. The acquisition is expected to be utilized in the Companys existing percutaneous mitral valve repair research and development efforts. At the time of the purchase, ev3 had been unsuccessful in developing a viable prototype and had discontinued the program. Additional design developments, bench testing, pre clinical studies and human clinical studies must be successfully completed prior to selling any product. The risks and uncertainties associated with completing development within a reasonable period of time include those related to the design, development and manufacturability of the product, the success of pre clinical and clinical studies, and the timing of European and United States regulatory approvals. Approximately $12.3 million of the purchase price was charged to in process research and development. The value of the in process research and development was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount 29 rate used was 30%. The valuation assumed approximately $39 million of additional research and development expenditures would be incurred prior to the date of product introduction. In the valuation, the Company estimated completion of the mitral valve repair program utilizing the intellectual property acquired from ev3 in 2009, and commencement of net cash inflows in 2010. The remaining fair market value of the assets purchased consisted primarily of patents unrelated to ev3s core mitral valve repair technology, which are being amortized over their estimated economic life of 19 years. On January 27, 2004, the Company acquired PVT, a development stage company, for $125.0 million in cash, net of cash acquired, plus up to an additional $30.0 million upon the achievement of key milestones through 2007. Included in PVTs technology is a catheter based (percutaneous) approach for replacing aortic heart valves, comprised of a proprietary percutaneously delivered balloon expandable stent technology integrated with a tissue heart valve. Unlike conventional open heart valve replacement surgery, this less invasive procedure can be performed under local anesthesia and could potentially be a breakthrough for patients seeking an alternative to open heart surgery. At the time of acquisition, the PVT aortic heart valve was being used in compassionate cases in Europe, and these clinical results had generated valuable feasibility data. It had been demonstrated that a heart valve could be successfully deployed and anchored using a catheter based system. Also at that time, the Company was expecting to obtain a CE mark in Europe by the end of 2005 and to file for a Humanitarian Device Exemption ("HDE") in the United States. Upon approval of the HDE, the Company would be able to offer this device to as many as 4,000 patients per year. Broader commercialization in the United States was expected to begin with the submission of an Investigational Device Exemption ("IDE") by the end of the second quarter of 2004 followed by the commencement of a pivotal trial in 2005 and possible pre market approval by the end of 2007. The risks and uncertainties associated with completing development within a reasonable period of time included those related to the design, development and manufacturability of the product, the success of pre clinical and clinical studies and the timing of European and United States regulatory approvals. Approximately $81.0 million of the purchase price was charged to in process research and development. The value of the in process research and development was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate used was 25%. The valuation assumed approximately $20.9 million of additional research and development expenditures would be incurred prior to the date of product introduction. In the valuation, net cash inflows were forecasted to commence in 2007. The remaining fair market value of the net assets acquired consisted primarily of patents of $72.4 million that are being amortized over their estimated economic life of 11 years, and a deferred tax liability related to the patents of $28.1 million. On December 5, 2003, the Company acquired the stock of Whitland Research Limited ("Whitland") for $3.2 million in cash, although achievement of future milestones through 2006 could increase the total price to $5.6 million. Whitland was focused on the development of critical care monitoring technologies. The $3.2 million purchase price was allocated to acquired in process research and development ($1.8 million) and patents ($1.4 million) based upon their estimated fair values. The patents are being amortized over their estimated useful life of 10 years. On February 18, 2003, the Company acquired the percutaneous mitral valve repair program of Jomed N.V. ("Jomed"), a European based provider of products for minimally invasive cardiovascular intervention, for $20.0 million in cash. The acquisition included all technology and intellectual property associated with the program. At the acquisition date, the program, which was less than 50% complete, was involved in testing proprietary prototypes prior to initiating required pre clinical studies and human clinicals. Additional design improvements, bench testing, pre clinical studies and human clinical studies must be successfully completed prior to commercially selling the product in Europe and the United 30 States, which at the time of the transaction was expected in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The risks and uncertainties associated with completing development within a reasonable period of time included those related to the design, development and manufacturability of the product, the success of pre clinical and clinical studies and the timing of European and United States regulatory approvals. Approximately $11.8 million of the purchase price was charged to in process research and development. The value of the in process research and development was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate used was 30%. The valuation assumed approximately $20.0 million of additional research and development expenditures would be incurred prior to the date of product introduction. In the valuation, material net cash inflows were forecasted to commence in 2008. The remaining fair market value of the assets acquired consisted primarily of patents that are being amortized over their estimated economic life of 17 years. Progress continues to be made on all of the purchased research and development programs. As of December 31, 2004 the programs related to the ev3 and Whitland acquisitions remained reasonably on track with the Companys original expectations. Although the PVT program remains reasonably on track with original expectations, the CE Mark is now expected in 2006, a conditional IDE was granted in the United States in January 2005, broad commercialization in the United States is anticipated in three to four years, and the HDE filing has been postponed. In January 2005, the Company commenced human feasibility studies of the product developed under the Jomed program. Commercialization of this product would be expected to occur in several years. Asset Impairments In September 2002, the Company recorded a $67.4 million charge related to the impairment of its investment in preferred stock of World Heart Corporation ("WorldHeart"). The investment was written down to $6.2 million, which represented the value of the Companys preferred stock investment had it been converted into common stock at October 15, 2002 (the closing date of Septembers books). The decision to record the charge was based primarily on WorldHearts September 2002 decision to refocus its product development efforts by adopting a new design concept for a next generation product that resulted in a significant delay (approximately two years) in its product development timeline (with a revised commercial launch date of 2007) and impaired WorldHearts competitive position. Accordingly, the Company concluded that sufficient risk existed that WorldHeart may be unable to fully liquidate the Companys investment in WorldHearts preferred stock. The Company believed that the best objective indicator of the then fair value of its investment in WorldHearts preferred stock was the market price of WorldHearts common stock based upon the Companys expectation that the value of its preferred stock investment would be realized through the common stock, as opposed to redemption of the preferred stock. In December, 2004, the Company recorded an additional charge of $4.7 million related to the impairment of its investment in WorldHeart resulting from the decline in its stock price. Additionally, in 2004, the Company recorded charges totaling $4.3 million related to the other than temporary impairment of technology investments in three unconsolidated affiliates. Two of the affiliates had announced they were discontinuing their development efforts and the book value of those investments was reduced to the residual distribution Edwards Lifesciences expects to receive from those companies. The other affiliate performed a reset financing that reduced the net value per share for all existing investors. This investment is now recorded at the reduced value. Special Charges, net Discontinued Products Due to a re prioritization of the Companys investment initiatives, the Company decided in March 2004 to discontinue its sales effort of its Lifepath AAA endovascular graft program. In the first quarter of 2004, the Company recorded a special charge of $8.4 million related primarily to inventory 31 and contractual clinical obligations. In addition, the Company discontinued certain lower margin cardiology products in Japan resulting in a charge of $2.2 million related primarily to other non productive assets. Sale of Property Development Rights In November 2004, the Company recorded income of $7.4 million for the sale of property development rights in Irvine, California, that had no book value at the time of the sale. Charitable Fund In December 2004, the Company recorded a charge of $5.0 million for an irrevocable contribution to a third party to create a charitable fund. Severance Charge In July 2003, the Company recorded a charge of $13.0 million associated with a decision to streamline operations. The charge was related primarily to the severance costs associated with reducing the Companys worldwide workforce by 136 employees, primarily in the United States and Europe. As of December 31, 2004, $0.3 million of the charge remained unpaid. Baxter Arbitration Settlement In January 2004, the Company concluded a dispute resolution proceeding with Baxter. Each company sought reimbursement from the other for a variety of claims arising from the Companys spin off from Baxter in April 2000. The resolution resulted in a $5.3 million charge related primarily to the valuation of receivables at the date of spin off, and a $5.4 million increase to Additional Contributed Capital related to the true up of the beginning balance of equity. Loss on Sale of Business Effective July 4, 2003, the Company sold its German perfusion services subsidiary to WKK GmbH, a German based provider of hospital services, for a nominal amount. Sales generated by the German perfusion services subsidiary were approximately $3.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2003 and $6.6 million for the year 2002. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 100, "Restructuring and Impairment Charges," the Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $3.3 million in the second quarter of 2003 to reduce the carrying value of the subsidiarys assets to fair value based upon the proceeds from the sale. Pension Curtailment On November 4, 2003, the Company suspended its defined benefit pension plan in Puerto Rico ("the Plan"). Effective December 31, 2003, employees ceased earning additional defined benefits for future services. To mitigate the Puerto Rico employees reduced benefits from the Plans suspension, effective January 1, 2004, the Company increased its contributions to the Puerto Rico 1165(e) defined contribution plan. In accordance with SFAS No. 88, "Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits," the Company recorded a curtailment loss of $1.9 million during the fourth quarter 2003. As of December 31, 2004, the Plans accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of its assets by $5.2 million. 32 Spin Off Expenses The Company recorded a $3.3 million charge for legal, administrative and regulatory expenses related to the October 2002 acquisition of the cardiovascular business in Japan (see "Joint Venture in Japan"). Equity Earnings in Japan Operations Equity earnings in Japan operations were $11.0 million in 2002. Equity earnings in Japan operations represent the Companys 90% profit interest in the cardiovascular business in Japan effective from April 1, 2000 through September 30, 2002. For more information, see "Joint Venture in Japan." Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net was $14.2 million, $13.2 million and $11.5 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in interest expense, net, for 2004 resulted primarily from a higher average debt balance, due largely to the financing of the PVT acquisition. The increase in interest expense, net for 2003 resulted primarily from the higher interest rate associated with the Companys fixed rate debt. Other (Income), net The following is a summary of other (income) expense, net (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Foreign exchange gain $ (0.2 ) $ (10.6 ) $ (4.1 ) Legal settlements, net (1.0 ) (14.7 ) Asset dispositions and write downs 3.6 2.3 Accounts receivable securitization costs 1.0 0.8 1.5 Other (0.2 ) 1.5 (0.4 ) $ (0.4 ) $ (4.7 ) $ (15.4 ) Foreign exchange gains and losses relate to global trade and intercompany receivable and payable balances. Effective April 24, 2002, Edwards Lifesciences and Medtronic, Inc. entered into an agreement related to certain patent infringement claims pursuant to which the Company received a one time cash payment of $20.0 million (recorded as a gain of $14.7 million, net of legal expenses). 33 Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were impacted as follows (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Income tax expense at U.S. federal statutory rate $ 10.5 $ 32.5 $ 19.6 Foreign income tax at different rates (22.5 ) (11.9 ) (10.6 ) Deemed dividends, net of foreign tax credit 2.5 6.2 Tax credits, federal and state (2.1 ) (2.1 ) (1.9 ) (Benefit) from Brazil reorganization (13.7 ) State and local taxes, net of federal tax benefit and transactions listed separately 0.8 1.0 (0.1 ) (Benefit) on sale of perfusion services business (20.1 ) Valuation allowance for loss on investments 6.6 13.8 Nondeductible in process research and development expenses 27.8 Other 4.8 1.8 (0.4 ) Income tax expense $ 28.4 $ 13.8 $ 0.3 Excluding the impact of in process research and development expenses, asset impairments and special charges, net, noted above, the effective income tax rate was 26% for all years presented. The Company expects its effective income tax rate for recurring operations to be 26% for 2005. In exchange for the sale of the Novacor mechanical cardiac assist product line to WorldHeart in June 2000, the Company received WorldHeart preferred stock. In 2002, the investment in the WorldHeart preferred stock was deemed to be impaired and written down to its fair market value. A further write down of the WorldHeart investment occurred in 2004. In addition, three other equity investments were deemed to be impaired and written down to fair market value in 2004. Due to the uncertainty of using any potential tax benefit for the losses, a valuation allowance of $13.8 million was established in 2002 and was increased by $6.6 million in 2004. Of the $81.0 million charge related to the PVT acquisition discussed above, $1.7 million related to tax deductible payments to exercise certain licensing options pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, and the remaining $79.3 million charge is permanently disallowed for income tax purposes. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") was signed into law in October 2004, which allows companies to repatriate cash into the United States at a special, temporary effective tax rate of 5.25 percent. The Companys evaluation of the amount of foreign earnings to repatriate under the Act, and the financial statement impact, is in process. As such, the Company is not in a position to decide on whether, and to what extent, foreign earnings that have not been remitted to the United States may be repatriated. Based on analysis to date, however, it is reasonably possible that between $150 million and $250 million may be repatriated. The related potential range of the income tax effect of the repatriation cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The Company expects to be in a position to finalize its assessment by the end of the third quarter 2005. During 2003, the Company commenced a legal reorganization of its Brazil subsidiary to improve its balance sheet and to enhance its ability to conduct business in Brazil. Since being acquired a number of years ago, this subsidiary has incurred net operating losses due primarily to the devaluation of the local currency and interest expense incurred on inter company debt. In addition, the reorganization allowed the Company to recognize the accumulated losses and inter company debt write off under United States tax law, resulting in federal and state tax benefits of $13.7 million. 34  During 2003, the Company recapitalized its Japan subsidiary. As a result, a deemed dividend occurred for United States tax purposes resulting in an incremental tax provision of $6.2 million, net of foreign tax credits. As a result of tax law developments in 2002, the Company recorded a $20.1 million tax benefit during 2002 related to the loss on sale of its United States perfusion services business in June 2001. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys sources of cash liquidity include cash on hand and cash equivalents, amounts available under credit facilities, accounts receivable securitization facilities and cash from operations. The Company believes that these sources are sufficient to fund the current requirements of working capital, capital expenditures and other financial commitments. The Company further believes that it has the financial flexibility to attract long term capital to fund short term and long term growth objectives. However, no assurances can be given that such long term capital will be available to Edwards Lifesciences on favorable terms, or at all. On June 28, 2004, the Company replaced its unsecured revolving credit agreement with a new unsecured five year revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), which will expire on June 26, 2009. The Credit Agreement provides up to an aggregate of $500.0 million in one to six month borrowings in multiple currencies. Borrowings currently bear interest at the London interbank offering rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.5%, which includes a facility fee and is subject to adjustment in the event of a change in the Companys leverage ratio, as defined by the Credit Agreement. The Company pays this facility fee regardless of available or outstanding borrowings, currently at an annual rate of 0.1%. All amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement have been classified as long term obligations, as these borrowings will continue to be refinanced pursuant to the Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2004, borrowings of $117.1 million were outstanding under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains various financial and other covenants, all of which the Company was in compliance with as of December 31, 2004. As further discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has two securitization programs whereby certain subsidiaries in the United States and Japan sell, without recourse, on a continuous basis, an undivided interest in certain eligible pools of accounts receivable. The significant benefits of the securitizations are lower cost of funds and differentiated sources of liquidity. The Company has been able to effectively lower its overall cost of funds as a result of the interest rate spreads it pays on these advances as opposed to borrowings under the current LIBOR based credit facility. Additionally, the Company believes that in diversifying its funding sources, the Companys funding availability in the capital markets is strengthened. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had sold a total of $90.4 million of trade accounts receivable and received funding of $80.4 million. The securitization program in the United States expires on December 19, 2005, and the Japan securitization program expires on December 3, 2005. On May 6, 2003, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to purchase 2.0 million shares of the Companys outstanding common stock through December 31, 2005. In May 2004, the Board of Directors approved a second stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to purchase on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions up to an additional 2.0 million shares of the Companys common stock through December 31, 2006. Stock repurchased under these programs will be used primarily to offset obligations under the Companys employee stock option programs. During 2004, the Company repurchased 1.7 million shares at an aggregate cost of $59.1 million and also completed the first stock repurchase program. 35 Net cash provided by operating activities in 2004 increased $38.5 million from 2003 due primarily to: higher earnings in 2004 adjusted for non operating and non cash items; increased net cash flows from payables and accrued liabilities from increased taxes payable; and increased net cash flows from receivables from improved days sales outstanding offsetting increased sales levels; partially offset by reduced cash flows from increases in inventories to build new product lines and support increased sales levels. Cash provided by operating activities in 2003 decreased $8.4 million from 2002 due primarily to: reduced cash inflows from accounts receivable securitization; and reduced cash inflows from increases in inventories partially offset by: higher earnings in 2003 before non cash charges and credits; decreased net cash outflows from accounts and other receivables; and decreased net cash outflows from accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in investing activities in 2004 consisted primarily of the acquisition of PVT and the purchase of ev3s technology of $137.7 million, and capital expenditures of $42.5 million. Net cash used in investing activities in 2003 consisted primarily of the acquisition of Jomed, Whitland and Embol X, Inc. of $33.2 million, and capital expenditures of $37.9 million. Net cash used in financing activities in 2004 consisted primarily of purchases of treasury stock of $59.1 million, partially offset by proceeds from stock plans of $30.5 million and net proceeds from issuance of long term debt of $7.1 million. Cash used in financing activities in 2003 consisted primarily of purchases of treasury stock of $49.4 million and net payments on debt of $4.0 million, partially offset by proceeds from stock plans of $36.6 million. A summary of all of the Companys contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2004 were as follows (in millions): Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Long term debt $ 267.1 $ $ $ $ 267.1 Interest on long term debt 30.9 11.2 15.4 4.3 Operating leases 49.8 13.1 20.4 15.2 1.1 Unconditional purchase obligations(a) 15.1 7.5 7.6 Contractual development obligations(b) 31.9 4.3 3.6 4.0 20.0 Total contractual cash obligations $ 394.8 $ 36.1 $ 47.0 $ 23.5 $ 288.2 (a)Unconditional purchase obligations consist primarily of minimum purchase commitments of inventory. (b)Contractual development obligations consist primarily of cash that Edwards Lifesciences is obligated to pay to unconsolidated affiliates upon their achievement of product development milestones. 36 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys results of operations and financial position are determined based upon the application of the Companys accounting policies, as discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Certain of the Companys accounting policies represent a selection among acceptable alternatives under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP"). In evaluating the Companys transactions, management assesses all relevant GAAP and chooses the accounting policy that most accurately reflects the nature of the transactions. Management has not determined how reported amounts would differ based on the application of different accounting policies. Management has also not determined the likelihood that materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. The application of accounting policies requires the use of judgment and estimates. As it relates to the Company, estimates and forecasts are required to determine sales returns and reserves, rebate reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, investments in unconsolidated affiliates, workers compensation liabilities, employee benefit related liabilities, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, any impairments of assets, forecasted transactions to be hedged, litigation reserves and contingencies. These matters that are subject to judgments and estimation are inherently uncertain, and different amounts could be reported using different assumptions and estimates. Management uses its best estimates and judgments in determining the appropriate amount to reflect in the financial statements, using historical experience and all available information. The Company also uses outside experts where appropriate. The Company applies estimation methodologies consistently from year to year. The Company believes the following are the critical accounting policies which could have the most significant effect on the Companys reported results and require subjective or complex judgments by management. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue for sales when all of the following have occurred: an agreement of sale exists, product delivery and acceptance has occurred or services have been rendered, and collection is reasonably assured. In the case of certain products where the Company maintains consigned inventory at customer locations, revenue is recognized at the time the Company is notified that the customer has used the inventory. The Company enters into certain arrangements in which it commits to provide multiple elements to its customers. Revenue related to an individual element is deferred unless delivery of the element represents a separate earnings process. Total revenue for these arrangements is allocated among the elements based on the fair value of the individual elements, with the relative fair values determined based on objective evidence (generally based on sales of the individual element to other third parties). Management is required to make judgments about whether or not collectibility is reasonably assured. When the Company recognizes revenue from the sale of its products, an estimate of various sales returns and allowances is recorded which reduces product sales and accounts receivable. These adjustments include estimates for charge backs, rebates, returns, and other sales allowances. These provisions are estimated based upon historical payment experience, historical relationship to revenues, estimated customer inventory levels and current contract sales terms with wholesale and indirect customers. If the historical data and inventory estimates used to calculate these provisions does not properly reflect future activity, the Companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be impacted. The Companys estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third party data, as certain third party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations. 37 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records allowances for doubtful accounts based on customer specific analysis and general matters such as current assessments of past due balances and economic conditions. Additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be required if there is deterioration in past due balances, if economic conditions are less favorable than the Company has anticipated or for customer specific circumstances, such as financial difficulty. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $4.5 million and $5.1 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Excess and Obsolete Inventory The Company records allowances for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and estimated future demand and market conditions. Additional inventory allowances may be required if future demand or market conditions are less favorable than the Company has estimated. Inventory reserves result from inventory which is obsolete, nearing its expiration date (generally triggered at six months prior to expiration), or damaged or slow moving (defined as quantities in excess of a two year supply). The allowance for excess and obsolete inventory was $15.5 million and $8.5 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Patent Costs The Company expenses legal costs incurred for patent preparation and applications. The Company capitalizes legal costs related to the defense and enforcement of issued patents for which success is deemed probable. The related costs are amortized over the remaining useful lives of the patents using the straight line method. Such deferred costs are periodically reviewed for impairment and recoverability. To the extent the Company is successful in its defense and enforcement of its patents and receives compensation for past infringement, costs capitalized in connection with the specific defense or enforcement are expensed as an offset against any gain received. Impairment of Long Lived Assets As the Companys operations are comprised of one reporting unit, the Company reviews the recoverability of its goodwill by comparing the Companys fair value to the net book value of its assets. If the book value of the Companys assets exceeds the Companys fair value, the goodwill is written down to its implied fair value. Additionally, management reviews the carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangibles whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment indicators include, among other conditions, cash flow deficits, historic or anticipated declines in revenue or operating profit and adverse legal or regulatory developments. If it is determined that such indicators are present and the review indicates that the assets will not be fully recoverable, based on undiscounted estimated cash flows over the remaining amortization periods, their carrying values are reduced to estimated fair market value. Estimated fair market value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. For the purposes of identifying and measuring impairment, long lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates Investments in unconsolidated affiliates are designated as available for sale in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." These investments are carried at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders equity as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Gains or losses on investments sold are 38 based on the specific identification method. The fair values of certain investments are based on quoted market prices. For other investments, various methods are used to estimate fair value, including external valuations and discounted cash flows. When the fair value of a certain investment declines below cost, management uses the following criteria to determine if such a decline should be considered other than temporary and result in a realized loss: the duration and extent to which the market value has been less than cost; the financial condition and near term prospects of the investee; the reasons for the decline in market value; the investees performance against product development milestones; and the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Income Taxes The Company records a liability for potential tax assessments based on its estimate of the potential exposure. New laws and new interpretations of laws and rulings by tax authorities may affect the liability for potential tax assessments. Due to the subjectivity and complex nature of the underlying issues, actual payments or assessments may differ from estimates. To the extent the Companys estimates differ from actual payments or assessments, income tax expense is adjusted. Additional information regarding income taxes is included in Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements. The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Companys financial statements or tax returns. At December 31, 2004, the Company had deferred tax assets of $130.5 million, partially offset by deferred tax liabilities of $60.9 million. The valuation allowance of $26.2 million as of December 31, 2004 reduces certain deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. This allowance primarily relates to the deferred tax assets established for certain investments and the net operating loss carryforwards of certain non United States subsidiaries. The Company evaluates annually the realizability of its deferred tax assets by assessing its valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of such allowance, if necessary. The factors used to assess the likelihood of realization are the Companys forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets. Failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable taxing jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in the Companys effective tax rate on future earnings. 39  Employee Stock Option and Stock Purchase Plans The Company applies the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," in accounting for its fixed stock option and employee stock purchase plans. In accordance with this intrinsic value method, no compensation expense is recognized for these plans. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation," (in millions, except per share amounts): Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Net income, as reported $ 1.7 $ 79.0 $ 55.7 Deduct: Total stock based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all awards, net of tax (15.7 ) (16.0 ) (15.3 ) Pro forma net income (loss) $ (14.0 ) $ 63.0 $ 40.4 Earnings per basic share: Reported net income $ 0.03 $ 1.34 $ 0.94 Pro forma net income (loss) (0.23 ) 1.07 0.68 Earnings per diluted share: Reported net income 0.03 1.29 0.91 Pro forma net income (loss) (0.23 ) 1.03 0.66 The per share weighted average fair value for options granted during 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $11.96, $10.93, and $11.64, respectively. The fair value of each option was estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: 2004 2003 2002 Average risk free interest rate 3.5 % 2.5 % 4.4 % Expected dividend yield None None None Expected volatility 41 % 42 % 44 % Expected life (years) 4 4 5 The pro forma expense for employee stock purchase subscriptions was calculated with the following weighted average assumptions for grants during the following periods: 2004 2003 2002 Average risk free interest rate 2.2 % 1.3 % 2.1 % Expected dividend yield None None None Expected volatility 40 % 42 % 45 % Expected life (years) 1 1 1 The expected volatility assumptions for the stock option and stock purchase plans used in the Black Scholes option pricing model is estimated on the date of each grant. Effects of Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") issued EITF Abstract Issue No. 04 8 "The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share." The abstract addresses when the dilutive effect of contingently convertible debt investments should be included in diluted earnings per share. This consensus is effective for reporting periods ending after December 15, 2004. Adoption of this consensus did not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements but may have a minimal impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements in the future. 40 In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4." This Statement amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, "Inventory Pricing," to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). This Statement is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not expect adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation." This Statement supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and its related implementation guidance. This Statement eliminates the alternative to use Opinion 25s intrinsic value method of accounting that was provided in Statement 123 as originally issued. Under Opinion 25, issuing stock options to employees generally resulted in recognition of no compensation cost. This Statement requires entities to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of those awards (with limited exceptions). This revision is effective for the first interim or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005. The Company is still assessing the impact that adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements; however, the Company believes that adoption of this standard will result in a charge to reported earnings.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk The Companys business and financial results are affected by fluctuations in world financial markets, including currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Companys hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on managements judgment of the appropriate trade off between risk, opportunity and costs. Edwards Lifesciences maintains an overall risk management strategy that utilizes a variety of interest rate and currency derivative financial instruments to mitigate its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. The derivative instruments used include interest rate swaps, option based products and forward currency contracts. The Company does not use any of these instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The total notional amounts of the Companys derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2004 and 2003 were $448.3 million and $567.6 million, respectively. The notional amounts of interest rate swap agreements, option based products, and forward currency contracts do not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, are not a measure of the Companys exposure through its use of derivatives. Interest Rate Risk The Company utilizes interest rate swap agreements in managing its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Interest rate swap agreements are executed as an integral part of specific debt transactions or on a portfolio basis. The Companys interest rate swap agreements involve agreements to pay a fixed rate and receive a floating rate, at specified intervals, calculated on an agreed upon notional amount. As part of its overall risk management program the Company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential gains and losses in earnings and changes in fair values to hypothetical movements in interest rates. A 54 basis point increase in interest rates (approximately 10 percent of the Companys weighted average interest rate) affecting the Companys financial instruments, including debt obligations and related derivatives and investments, would have an immaterial effect on the Companys annual interest expense. Currency Risk The Company is primarily exposed to currency exchange rate risk with respect to its transactions and net assets denominated in Japanese yen and the Euro. Business activities in various currencies 41 expose the Company to the risk that the eventual net United States dollar cash inflows resulting from transactions with foreign customers and suppliers denominated in foreign currencies may be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. The Company manages these risks utilizing various types of foreign exchange contracts. The Company also enters into foreign exchange contracts to hedge anticipated, but not yet committed, sales expected to be denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the Company hedges certain of its net investments in international affiliates. Such contracts hedge the United States dollar value of foreign currency denominated net assets from the effects of volatility in currency exchange rates by creating debt denominated in the respective currencies of the underlying net assets. Any changes in the carrying value of these net investments that are a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates are offset by changes in the carrying value of the foreign currency denominated debt that are a result of the same fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As part of the strategy to manage risk while minimizing hedging costs, the Company utilizes both foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option based products in managing its exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Option based products consist of purchased put options and at times written (sold) call options to create collars. Option based products are agreements that either grant the Company the right to receive, or require the Company to make payments at, specified currency rate levels. As part of its risk management process, the Company uses a value at risk ("VAR") methodology in connection with other management tools to assess and manage its foreign currency financial instruments and measure any potential loss in earnings as a result of adverse movements in currency exchange rates. The Company utilizes a Monte Carlo simulation, with a 95 percent confidence level, using spot and three month implied volatilities as stochastic variables and correlations (as of the measurement date) to estimate this potential loss. The Companys calculated VAR at December 31, 2004 and 2003, with a maturity of up to one year, is $5.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively. This amount excludes the potential effects of any changes in the value of the underlying transactions or balances. The Companys calculated VAR exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on its portfolio of financial instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results which may occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur. Actual future gains or losses may differ from (and could be significantly greater than) these estimates based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, and changes in the Companys portfolio of derivatives during the measured periods. In addition, the assumption within the VAR model is that changes in currency exchange rates are adverse, which may not be the case. Any loss incurred on the financial instruments is expected to be offset by the effects of currency movements on the hedging of all exposures; there may be currency exchange rate gains or losses in the future. Credit Risk Derivative financial instruments used by the Company involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit risk in the event a counter party should default and market risk as the instruments are subject to rate and price fluctuations. Credit risk is managed through the use of credit standard guidelines, counter party diversification, monitoring of counter party financial condition and master netting agreements in place with all derivative counter parties. Credit exposure of derivative financial instruments is represented by the fair value effects of contracts with a positive fair value at December 31, 2004 reduced by the effects of master netting agreements. Additionally, at December 31, 2004, all derivative financial instruments, based on notional amounts, were with commercial banks and investment banking firms assigned investment grade ratings of "AA" or better by national rating agencies. The Company does not anticipate non performance by its counter parties and has no reserves related to non performance as of December 31, 2004; the Company has not experienced any counterparty default during the four years ended December 31, 2004. 42 Concentrations of Credit Risk In the normal course of business, Edwards Lifesciences provides credit to customers in the health care industry, performs credit evaluations of these customers and maintains reserves for potential credit losses which, when realized, have been within the range of managements allowance for doubtful accounts during all periods presented. Sales to Baxter, acting in the capacity of the Companys distributor subsequent to the tax free spin off of Edwards Lifesciences from Baxter, represented approximately 8% of the Companys total net sales for 2002. Substantially all of these agreements had been terminated as of December 31, 2002. In 2004, the Company had no customers that represent greater than 10% of its total net sales or accounts receivable, net. Investment Risk Edwards Lifesciences is exposed to investment risks related to changes in the fair values of its investments. The Company invests in equity instruments of public and private companies. These investments are classified in "Investments in unconsolidated affiliates" on the consolidated balance sheets. In 2002, the Company recorded a $67.4 million pretax charge related to the impairment of its investment in preferred stock of WorldHeart. The investment was written down to $6.2 million, which represented the value of the Companys preferred stock investment had it been converted into common stock at October 15, 2002. The decision to record the charge was based primarily on delays in WorldHearts product development timelines, arising from its revised strategy. A further impairment of $4.7 million was charged in 2004 resulting from the decline in WorldHearts stock price. Should WorldHeart fail to meet certain future development and financing milestones, further impairment charges may be necessary. In addition to the investment in WorldHeart ($1.5 million at December 31, 2004), Edwards Lifesciences had approximately $19.1 million of investments in equity instruments of other companies. At December 31, 2004, the Company had recorded unrealized losses of $4.5 million on these investments in "Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income," net of tax. Management considers these declines temporary in nature based upon the individual companies operating results, financial condition and achievement of product development milestones. Should these companies experience a decline in financial condition or fail to meet certain development milestones, the decline in the investments values may be considered other than temporary and impairment charges may be necessary.  
 
