Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis presents the factors that had a material effect on the results of operations of Edwards Lifesciences during the three years ended December 31, 2005. Also discussed is Edwards Lifesciences financial position as of December 31, 2005. You should read this discussion in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K.  Overview Edwards Lifesciences is a global provider of products and technologies that are designed to treat advanced cardiovascular disease. Edwards Lifesciences focuses on providing products and technologies to address specific cardiovascular opportunities: heart valve disease; critical care technologies; and peripheral vascular disease. The products and services provided by Edwards Lifesciences to treat cardiovascular disease are categorized into five main areas:Heart Valve Therapy; Critical Care; Cardiac Surgery Systems; Vascular; and Other Distributed Products. Edwards Lifesciences heart valve therapy portfolio is comprised of tissue heart valves and heart valve repair products. A pioneer in the development and commercialization of heart valve products, 23 Edwards Lifesciences is the worlds leading manufacturer of tissue heart valves and repair products used to replace or repair a patients diseased or defective heart valve. In the critical care area, Edwards Lifesciences is a world leader in hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patients heart function and in disposable pressure transducers, and also provides central venous access products for fluid and drug delivery. The Companys cardiac surgery systems portfolio comprises a diverse line of products for use during cardiac surgery including cannula, transmyocardial revascularization ("TMR") technology, oxygenators, blood containers, filters and other disposable products used during cardiopulmonary bypass procedures. Edwards Lifesciences vascular portfolio includes a line of balloon catheter based products, surgical clips and inserts, artificial implantable grafts, and stents used in the treatment of peripheral vascular disease. Lastly, other distributed products include sales of intra aortic balloon pumps and other products sold primarily though the Companys distribution network in Japan. The healthcare marketplace continues to be competitive with strong local and global competitors. Global demand for healthcare is increasing as the population ages. There is mounting pressure to contain healthcare costs in the face of this increasing demand, which has resulted in pricing and market share pressures. Management expects these trends to continue.  Results of Operations Net Sales Trends The following is a summary of United States and international net sales (dollars in millions): Years Ended December 31, Change Percent Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2005 2004 United States $ 455.9 $ 416.5 $ 384.3 $ 39.4 $ 32.2 9.5 % 8.4 % Europe 241.3 221.2 193.5 20.1 27.7 9.1 % 14.3 % Japan 186.4 197.2 197.9 (10.8 ) (0.7 ) (5.5 )% (0.4 )% Intercontinental 114.3 96.6 84.8 17.7 11.8 18.3 % 13.9 % International 542.0 515.0 476.2 27.0 38.8 5.2 % 8.1 % Total net sales $ 997.9 $ 931.5 $ 860.5 $ 66.4 $ 71.0 7.1 % 8.3 % The increase in net sales in the United States in 2005 was due primarily to increased sales in heart valve therapy products driven by the continuing penetration of the Companys Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna valve and its Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna valve with ThermaFix and resulting in market share gains. The increase in international net sales in 2005 was due primarily to: heart valve therapy products, which increased net sales by $17.6 million driven by strong Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT valve sales in Europe; critical care products, which increased net sales by $11.4 million; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $6.9 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Brazilian real against the United States dollar, offset by the weakening of the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); and vascular and cardiac surgery products, which increased net sales by $6.3 million. The 2005 increases were partially offset by a decrease in net sales of $22.6 million due to the impact of discontinued businesses, primarily in Japan. 24 In 2004, the increase in net sales in the United States was due primarily to increased sales in heart valve therapy products, which was driven by sales of the Companys Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT and PERIMOUNT Magna aortic valves and the PERIMOUNT valves with Tricentrix holder. The increase in international net sales in 2004 was due primarily to: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $38.5 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); and heart valve therapy products, which increased net sales by $15.5 million driven primarily by strong PERIMOUNT valve sales in Europe. The 2004 increases were partially offset by (1) a decrease in net sales of $14.9 million due to the sale of the Companys German and Italian perfusion services businesses and the discontinuation of the Lifepath AAA program and (2) a decrease in net sales in Japan resulting primarily from reimbursement changes. The impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on net sales would not necessarily be indicative of the impact on net income due to the corresponding effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on international manufacturing and operating costs and the Companys hedging activities. For more information see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk." Net Sales by Product Line The following is a summary of net sales by product line (dollars in millions): Years Ended December 31, Change Percent Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2005 2004 Heart Valve Therapy $ 469.3 $ 419.2 $ 366.4 $ 50.1 $ 52.8 12.0 % 14.4 % Critical Care 324.1 302.3 278.8 21.8 23.5 7.2 % 8.4 % Cardiac Surgery Systems 104.6 107.3 115.0 (2.7 ) (7.7 ) (2.5 )% (6.7 )% Vascular 66.1 60.1 55.9 6.0 4.2 10.0 % 7.5 % Other Distributed Products 33.8 42.6 44.4 (8.8 ) (1.8 ) (20.7 )% (4.1 )% Total net sales $ 997.9 $ 931.5 $ 860.5 $ 66.4 $ 71.0 7.1 % 8.3 % Heart Valve Therapy The $50.1 million net sales growth of heart valve therapy products in 2005 was due primarily to: pericardial tissue valves, which increased net sales by $37.0 million, primarily as a result of market share gains globally of the Companys Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna valve, particularly in the United States; heart valve repair products, which increased net sales by $10.1 million, primarily driven by the continuing adoption of the Companys new disease specific therapies; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased heart valve therapy net sales by $1.8 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Brazilian real against the United States dollar, offset by the weakening of the Japanese yen against the United States dollar). The $52.8 million net sales growth of heart valve therapy products in 2004 was due primarily to: pericardial tissue valves, which increased net sales by $37.9 million, primarily as a result of strong market adoption of the Companys Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna valve in the United States and Europe; 25  foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $14.3 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Japanese yen against the United States dollar); and heart valve repair products, which increased net sales by $5.6 million. The 2004 increases were partially offset by decreased sales of porcine tissue valves of $5.1 million. Sales of heart valve therapy products continued to be strong in 2005 driven by market share gains. During the year, the Company expanded the availability of its Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna valve and its Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna valve with ThermaFix, an advanced tissue treatment process. The features and performance of these products continue to command a price premium. During the second quarter 2005, the Company launched in the United States its PERIMOUNT Theon mitral pericardial valve system, which is based on its existing mitral pericardial technology and includes enhancements and additional accessories along with its new ThermaFix advanced tissue process. This system has been well received by clinicians and was a notable contributor to heart valve therapy sales growth. The Company anticipates further penetration of its PERIMOUNT Magna aortic valves in the United States with the addition of ThermaFix and expects further geographic expansion of the PERIMOUNT Magna product line. In September 2005, the Company introduced its new PERIMOUNT Magna mitral valve in Europe and expects to launch this product in the United States following FDA approval, which is anticipated in 2006. Unlike most competitive porcine tissue valves, PERIMOUNT Magna mitral is designed specifically for the requirements of the mitral position. Global heart valve repair sales demonstrated strong growth in 2005 and the Company expects to introduce another new mitral repair system in 2006. In the fourth quarter 2005, the Company completed the first minimal access beating heart surgical procedures with its Ascendra aortic valve replacement system. The Company plans to continue patient cases at multiple sites in Canada and Europe as part of an initial feasibility study. The results of the feasibility study will determine the timelines for a future pivotal study intended to achieve commercial clearance in key global markets. Critical Care The $21.8 million net sales growth of critical care products in 2005 was due primarily to: hemodynamic monitoring products, which increased net sales by $12.7 million, driven primarily by market share gains; an expanded hemofiltration product line, which increased net sales by $5.8 million; and currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $2.2 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Brazilian real against the United States dollar, offset by the weakening of the Japanese yen against the United States dollar). The $23.5 million net sales growth of critical care products in 2004 was due primarily to: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $13.4 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); pressure monitoring products, which increased net sales by $8.4 million, driven primarily by market share gains; and overall strong sales demand in markets outside of Europe and Japan. The 2004 increases were partially offset by decreased sales of base catheter products, which decreased net sales by $6.1 million, and recent reimbursement decreases in Japan. 26 Minimally invasive monitoring systems, featuring the Companys FloTrac system, represent a new and market expanding opportunity for the Company. The Company launched its FloTrac system in Europe in the first quarter of 2005 and in the United States in the second quarter of 2005. In January 2006, the Company announced that it received regulatory and reimbursement approval for its FloTrac system in Japan. The Company anticipates the Japan launch in the first half of 2006. Cardiac Surgery Systems The $2.7 million net sales decrease of cardiac surgery systems in 2005 was due primarily to the sale of the Companys perfusion products business in Japan in January 2005 and the sale of the Companys Italian perfusion services businesses in June 2004, which together decreased net sales by $9.6 million. The decrease was partially offset by: cannula products, which increased net sales by $2.8 million, driven primarily by market share gains and a shift to specialty products; and currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $2.2 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Brazilian real against the United States dollar, offset by the weakening of the Japanese yen against the United States dollar). The $7.7 million net sales decrease of cardiac surgery systems in 2004 was due primarily to: the sales of the Companys German and Italian perfusion services businesses in July 2003 and June 2004, respectively, which decreased net sales by $11.4 million; and perfusion products in Japan, which decreased net sales by $3.8 million. The 2004 decreases were partially offset by: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $5.0 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); and cannula products, which increased net sales by $3.3 million. In January 2005, the Company sold its Japan perfusion products business and expects to complete transitioning the business to the buyer in 2006. Throughout the transition period, the Company will continue to act as supplier and expects sales to the buyer of approximately $3.4 million in 2006. In January 2006, the Company launched its Optiwave 980 cardiac ablation system. Management believes this product will be a strong adjunct to the Companys current surgical heart valve business. Vascular The $6.0 million net sales growth of vascular products in 2005 was due primarily to: LifeStent products, which increased net sales by $5.7 million; and currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $0.8 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and Brazilian real against the United States dollar, offset by the weakening of the Japanese yen against the United States dollar). The 2005 increases were partially offset by the discontinuation of the Lifepath AAA program in June 2004. The $4.2 million net sales growth of vascular products for 2004 was due primarily to: currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $2.6 million (primarily the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar); and sales of interventional products, which increased net sales by $2.4 million. 27 The 2004 increases were partially offset by the discontinuation of the Lifepath AAA program in June 2004. The Company expects stent sales to grow in 2006. In the fourth quarter 2005, the Company received 510(k) approval for its new LifeStent FlexStar self expanding stent delivery system and expects introduction in the United States in the first half of 2006. Other Distributed Products The $8.8 million decrease in net sales of other distributed products in 2005 was due primarily to the discontinuation of sales in Japan of certain lower margin distributed cardiology products in September 2004 and the exit from the Japan pacemaker business during the first quarter of 2005. The $1.8 million decrease in net sales of other distributed products in 2004 was due primarily to the Companys de emphasis of certain lower margin distributed cardiology products in Japan. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, Percentage Point Increase 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 62.5 % 60.3 % 58.2 % 2.2 pts. 2.1 pts. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales for 2005 increased compared to the prior year due primarily to (1) a 1.3 percentage point increase from the favorable impact of foreign currency, including the expiration of currency hedging contracts and (2) sales of higher margin heart valve products. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales for 2004 increased compared to the prior year due primarily to (1) a 1.3 percentage point increase from the favorable impact of foreign currency, including the expiration of currency hedging contracts, (2) an increase of 0.6 percentage points due to the elimination of certain lower margin businesses, and (3) increased sales of higher margin heart valve products, partially offset by reimbursement decreases in Japan. Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses Years Ended December 31, Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 SG&A expenses $ 348.7 $ 319.9 $ 289.9 $ 28.8 $ 30.0 SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales 34.9 % 34.3 % 33.7 % 0.6 pts. 0.6 pts. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2005 resulted primarily from higher sales and marketing expenses primarily related to the Companys United States peripheral stent and heart valve therapy products ($19.0 million), higher international expenses due to foreign exchange rates ($2.3 million), and higher legal and consulting expenses. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales for 2005 was due primarily to the increased investment in United States sales and marketing expenses related to peripheral stents. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2004 was due primarily to higher international expenses due to changes in foreign exchange rates ($12.6 million) and higher sales and marketing expenses in the peripheral stent and heart valve therapy product lines in the United States. 28 The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales for 2004 was due primarily to the increased investment in United States sales and marketing expenses in the peripheral stent and heart valve therapy product lines, partially offset by the cost reductions made in the third quarter of 2003. Research and Development Expenses Years Ended December 31, Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Research and development expenses $ 99.0 $ 87.0 $ 72.8 $ 12.0 $ 14.2 Research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales 9.9 % 9.3 % 8.5 % 0.6 pts. 0.8 pts. The increase in research and development expenses and research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales for 2005 resulted primarily from additional investment in the Companys percutaneous heart valve programs. The increase in research and development expenses for 2004 resulted primarily from additional investment in the Companys percutaneous valve programs and the amortization of Percutaneous Valve Technologies, Inc. ("PVT") intangible assets, partially offset by reduced spending in the Lifepath AAA program. Research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales for 2004 increased due primarily to the amortization and additional research and development spending related to PVT. In June 2005, the Company announced that it was delaying enrollment in its percutaneous aortic heart valve clinical feasibility trials in the United States, pending approval by the FDA, to incorporate a larger valve and new retrograde delivery system, which had been successfully used in Canada. In December 2005, the Company received FDA approval to resume the United States clinical feasibility trial using the new retrograde delivery system and the larger valve. In January 2006, the Company began performing feasibility cases under the United States Investigational Device Exemption ("IDE") at one site and is actively training more physicians. Upon successful completion of the clinical feasibility trial, the Company will work closely with the FDA to determine next steps. As previously reported, the Humanitarian Device Exemption ("HDE") filing in the United States has been postponed. Outside the United States, the percutaneous aortic heart valve multi center CE mark study is on going, and cases are continuing in Europe and Canada using the retrograde approach and the larger valve. As the Company continues to train physicians and add new sites, it is targeting enrollment completion by early 2007, which would allow the Company to receive a CE mark as early as the end of 2007, absent adverse results. In the third quarter 2005, the Company completed the transition of valve manufacturing capability from the former PVT supplier to Edwards Lifesciences. Additionally, the Company received FDA approval for Edwards Lifesciences as a manufacturing site, and is currently producing percutaneous valves in Irvine, California. The Company received regulatory approvals in the third quarter 2005 to resume feasibility studies for the Edwards MONARC Mitral Annuloplasty System, the Companys coronary sinus mitral repair technology, in Canada and Europe with an enhanced device design. Patient cases are continuing at multiple sites in Canada and Europe and the Company anticipates completion of these studies in the first half of 2006, at which point the Company will assess and develop plans for the pivotal trial necessary to gain regulatory approval for commercial sale. Cases have begun in the feasibility study for the Edwards MOBIUS Mitral Repair System, the Companys edge to edge mitral repair program, at sites in Europe and Canada. In early patient 29 experience, the Company identified two enhancements, which included the ability to deploy multiple stitches during the procedure and device modifications to accommodate thicker mitral leaflets, to enable the technology to treat a broader group of patients and achieve improved efficacy. As a result, the Company now expects to complete the feasibility trial in 2006, at which point the Company will assess and develop plans for the pivotal trial necessary to gain regulatory approval for commercial sale. Purchased in process Research and Development Expenses The information in "Purchased in process Research and Development Expenses," related to regulatory milestones describes the Companys expectations with respect to the applicable programs at the time of the respective acquisitions and does not reflect subsequent activities or expectations. Refer to "Research and Development Expenses", above, for the current status of these programs and the Companys expectations. 2005 In September 2005, the Company recorded a $1.2 million pretax charge for in process research and development related to the acquisition of technology and intellectual property. The acquired assets are expected to be utilized in the Companys existing mitral valve repair research and development efforts. Additional design developments, bench testing, pre clinical studies and human clinical studies must be successfully completed prior to selling any product. 2004 On September 29, 2004, the Company acquired all technology and intellectual property associated with ev3, Inc.s ("ev3") percutaneous mitral valve repair program for total consideration of $15.0 million. The acquired assets were expected to be utilized in the Companys existing percutaneous mitral valve repair research and development efforts. At the time of the purchase, ev3 had been unsuccessful in developing a viable prototype and had discontinued the program. Completion of successful design developments, bench testing, pre clinical studies and human clinical studies were required prior to selling any product. The risks and uncertainties associated with completing development within a reasonable period of time include those related to the design, development and manufacturability of the product, the success of pre clinical and clinical studies, and the timing of European and United States regulatory approvals. Approximately $12.3 million of the purchase price was charged to in process research and development. The value of the in process research and development was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate used was 30%. The valuation assumed approximately $39.0 million of additional research and development expenditures would be incurred prior to the date of product introduction. In the valuation, the Company estimated completion of the mitral valve repair program utilizing the intellectual property acquired from ev3 in 2009, and commencement of net cash inflows in 2010. The remaining fair market value of the assets purchased consisted primarily of patents unrelated to ev3s core mitral valve repair technology, which are being amortized over their estimated economic life of 19 years. On January 27, 2004, the Company acquired PVT, a development stage company, for $125.0 million in cash, net of cash acquired, plus up to an additional $30.0 million upon the achievement of key milestones through 2007. Included in PVTs technology is a catheter based (percutaneous) approach for replacing aortic heart valves, comprised of a proprietary percutaneously delivered balloon expandable stent technology integrated with a tissue heart valve. Unlike conventional open heart valve replacement surgery, this less invasive procedure can be performed under local anesthesia and could potentially be a breakthrough for patients seeking an alternative to open heart surgery. 30  At the time of acquisition, the PVT aortic heart valve was being used in compassionate cases in Europe, and these clinical results had generated valuable feasibility data. It had been demonstrated that a heart valve could be successfully deployed and anchored using a catheter based system. Also at that time, the Company was expecting to obtain a CE mark in Europe by the end of 2005 and to file for an HDE in the United States. Upon approval of the HDE, the Company would be able to offer this device to as many as 4,000 patients per year. Broader commercialization in the United States was expected to begin with the submission of an IDE by the end of the second quarter of 2004 followed by the commencement of a pivotal trial in 2005 and possible pre market approval by the end of 2007. The risks and uncertainties associated with completing development within a reasonable period of time included those related to the design, development and manufacturability of the product, the success of pre clinical and clinical studies and the timing of European and United States regulatory approvals. Approximately $81.0 million of the purchase price was charged to in process research and development. The value of the in process research and development was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate used was 25%. The valuation assumed approximately $20.9 million of additional research and development expenditures would be incurred prior to the date of product introduction. In the valuation, net cash inflows were forecasted to commence in 2007. The remaining fair market value of the net assets acquired consisted primarily of patents of $72.4 million that are being amortized over their estimated economic life of 11 years, and a deferred tax liability related to the patents of $28.1 million. 2003 On December 5, 2003, the Company acquired the stock of Whitland Research Limited ("Whitland") for $3.2 million in cash, although achievement of future milestones through 2006 could increase the total price to $5.6 million. Whitland was focused on the development of critical care monitoring technologies. The $3.2 million purchase price was allocated to acquired in process research and development ($1.8 million) and patents ($1.4 million) based upon their estimated fair values. The patents are being amortized over their estimated useful life of 10 years. On February 18, 2003, the Company acquired the percutaneous mitral valve repair program of Jomed N.V. ("Jomed"), a European based provider of products for minimally invasive cardiovascular intervention, for $20.0 million in cash. The acquisition included all technology and intellectual property associated with the program. At the acquisition date, the program, which was less than 50% complete, was involved in testing proprietary prototypes prior to initiating required pre clinical studies and human clinicals. Completion of successful design improvements, bench testing, pre clinical studies and human clinical studies were required prior to commercially selling the product in Europe and the United States, which at the time of the transaction was expected in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The risks and uncertainties associated with completing development within a reasonable period of time included those related to the design, development and manufacturability of the product, the success of pre clinical and clinical studies and the timing of European and United States regulatory approvals. Approximately $11.8 million of the purchase price was charged to in process research and development. The value of the in process research and development was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate used was 30%. The valuation assumed approximately $20.0 million of additional research and development expenditures would be incurred prior to the date of product introduction. In the valuation, material net cash inflows were forecasted to commence in 2008. The remaining fair market value of the assets acquired consisted primarily of patents that are being amortized over their estimated economic life of 17 years. 31 Special Charges, net 2005 2004 2003 Restructure 3F agreements $ 22.8 $ $ Investment impairments 16.3 9.0 Charitable fund 15.0 5.0 Net (gain) loss on sale of businesses (14.1 ) 3.3 Severance expenses 3.9 13.0 Litigation gain and royalty settlements, net 2.9 Discontinued products 1.4 10.6 Gain on sale of property development rights (7.4 ) Resolution of Baxter arbitration 5.3 Puerto Rico pension curtailment 1.9 Total special charges, net $ 48.2 $ 17.2 $ 23.5 Restructure 3F Agreements In June 2005, the Company recorded a special charge of $22.8 million related to the restructuring of development and supply agreements between 3F Therapeutics, Inc. and PVT that were established prior to the Companys acquisition of PVT in early 2004. Under the terms of the new agreements, the Company paid $23.0 million in cash, with an additional payment of $2.0 million to be paid if certain conditions are met, and obtained the rights to self manufacture all components of its percutaneous heart valves and certain pre approved technology licenses. Investment Impairments In September 2005, the Company recorded an $8.9 million charge related to the other than temporary impairment of its investment in Sangamo Biosciences, Inc. ("Sangamo"). The investment was written down to $3.7 million, which represented the quoted market price of Sangamos common stock at September 30, 2005. The Company considered numerous facts, including those described below, to conclude that any impairment of the Sangamo investment was temporary in nature as of the end of each of the quarters in 2003 and 2004, and the first two quarters of 2005: Sangamos key internally established development milestones were progressing and or remained on track at each quarter end throughout 2003 and 2004, and the first two quarters of 2005. There were no changes in technology that could impair Sangamos earnings potential of the investment and the technological progress supported a positive outlook. The Company believed that the number and scope of Sangamos programs and the range of its third party collaborations and the continued success in the Companys Sangamo related programs would significantly drive the value of Sangamo. Moreover, the clinical momentum was building at the end of 2004 with the anticipation of three to four Phase I human trials, the likely completion of one or more Phase I trials with positive data and the planned announcements at major medical meetings. Management of the Company believed that declines in Sangamos stock price were a result of certain external events and general investor sentiment of the biotechnology sector, and not Sangamo specific activities. In addition, the Company recognized that, historically, reports of significant positive clinical outcomes had frequently resulted in a significant increase in the stock price of a biotechnology company over a relatively short time period. Management believed this would be the case for Sangamo. 32 Throughout all periods in which the Company concluded that the impairment of this investment was temporary, Sangamo maintained cash and liquid investment reserves sufficient to continue to fund the ongoing development efforts for the technology for periods well in excess of one year. Throughout all periods in which the Company concluded that the impairment of this investment was temporary, the Company had the financial ability and intent to retain this investment indefinitely. Sangamos technology was considered important to the development of certain of the Companys next generation products, and required a long term horizon for ongoing development of new technology. Sangamo is a multi technology (human therapeutics, drug discovery and plant agriculture) biotechnology company and has the ability to attract many different investors. In addition, the diversity of technology applications served to dilute the risk related to any one application failure. The Company expected the market price of Sangamos stock to increase not only as a result of announcements of positive clinical trial results, but also other operational events. During the second half of 2005, Sangamo announced five significant key developments regarding collaborative agreements, additional funding and breakthrough technology. The Company expected that this concentration of positive developments could have generated a considerable increase in the stock price, better recognizing the underlying value of Sangamo. Based upon (1) the significant developments in the third quarter of 2005 which, individually and in the aggregate, failed to have a material impact on the quoted market price of Sangamos stock, (2) the continuing duration and severity of the impairment, and (3) Sangamos declining cash position, the Company concluded in September 2005 that the impairment on its investment in Sangamo was other than temporary and, therefore, recognized $8.9 million in earnings. In 2005, the Company recorded additional charges totaling $7.4 million related to other than temporary impairment of technology investments in five other unconsolidated affiliates. Of the total additional charge, $1.9 million related to declines in the stock prices of two available for sale investments. The remaining charges were due to increased potential risk of certain private investees uncertain future liquidity. In 2004, the Company recorded charges totaling $9.0 million related to the other than temporary impairment of technology investments in four unconsolidated affiliates. One of the impairments resulted from the decline in the stock price of an affiliate. Two of the affiliates had announced they were discontinuing their development efforts and the book value of those investments was reduced to the residual distribution Edwards Lifesciences expected to receive from those companies. The remaining affiliate performed a reset financing that reduced the net value per share for all existing investors. This investment is recorded at the reduced value. Charitable Fund In December 2004, the Company made an initial contribution of $5.0 million to establish the Edwards Lifesciences Fund, a donor advised fund intended to provide philanthropic support to cardio vascular disease charitable causes. In September 2005, the Company completed its funding goal and made an additional $15.0 million contribution. Both of these contributions were irrevocable contributions to a third party and were recorded as charges at time of payment. Net (Gain) Loss on Sale of Businesses In January 2005, the Company announced that it was realigning its business in Japan as part of the Companys continued efforts to focus on its core cardiovascular businesses. The Company 33 (1) restructured its operations, (2) exited its pacemaker distribution business and (3) sold its perfusion products business in Japan to Terumo Corporation for cash consideration of between $10 million and $20 million based upon the achievement of certain milestones, of which $9.2 million was received in January 2005. These transactions resulted in a $1.0 million net gain, consisting of a gain on the sale of the Companys Japan perfusion products business of $7.7 million, offset by a $5.7 million charge relating to the realignment of its operations, primarily related to severance costs due to headcount reductions and a $1.0 million charge related to settlement and curtailment impacting its defined benefit pension plan and for termination benefits. In November 2005, the Company sold its vascular graft business to Angiotech Pharmaceuticals Inc. for $14.0 million in cash. Under the agreement, the Company will continue to market and sell its existing Lifespan product line. The sale of the business resulted in a $13.1 million net gain, consisting of cash proceeds of $14.0 million offset by the $0.9 million net book value of inventory and fixed assets that were sold. In July 2003, the Company sold its German perfusion services subsidiary to WKK GmbH, a German based provider of hospital services, for a nominal amount. Sales generated by the German perfusion services subsidiary were approximately $3.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2003. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 100, "Restructuring and Impairment Charges," the Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $3.3 million in the second quarter of 2003 to reduce the carrying value of the subsidiarys assets to fair value based upon the proceeds from the sale. Severance Expenses In December 2005, the Company recorded a charge of $3.9 million related to severance resulting from a resource realignment. The charge was related primarily to the severance costs associated with reducing the Companys workforce by 52 employees, primarily in Puerto Rico, Europe and North America. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had paid $1.3 million related to severance with the remaining $2.6 million expected to be paid in 2006. In July 2003, the Company recorded a charge of $13.0 million associated with a decision to streamline operations. The charge was related primarily to the severance costs associated with reducing the Companys worldwide workforce by 136 employees, primarily in the United States and Europe. As of December 31, 2005, all of the severance costs had been paid. Litigation Gain and Royalty Settlements, net In September 2005, the Company recorded a gain of $2.5 million related to the resolution of intellectual property litigation. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company recorded a $5.4 million charge related to two royalty dispute settlements. Discontinued Products In the fourth quarter 2005, the Company recorded a charge of $1.4 million resulting from the payment of an early termination fee to discontinue certain firm non cancelable product purchase commitments related to a discontinued product line in Europe. In March 2004, due to a re prioritization of the Companys investment initiatives, the Company discontinued its sales effort of its Lifepath AAA endovascular graft program. The Company recorded a special charge of $8.4 million primarily related to inventory and contractual clinical obligations. In addition, the Company decided to discontinue certain lower margin cardiology products in Japan later that year and recorded a $2.2 million charge in 2004 primarily related to other non productive assets. 34 Gain on Sale of Property Development Rights In November 2004, the Company recorded income of $7.4 million for the sale of property development rights in Irvine, California, that had no book value at the time of the sale. Resolution of Baxter Arbitration In January 2004, the Company concluded a dispute resolution proceeding with Baxter International Inc. ("Baxter"). Each company sought reimbursement from the other for a variety of claims arising from the Companys spin off from Baxter in April 2000. The resolution resulted in a $5.3 million charge related primarily to the valuation of receivables at the date of spin off, and a $5.4 million increase to Additional Contributed Capital related to the true up of the beginning balance of equity. Puerto Rico Pension Curtailment In November 2003, the Company suspended its defined benefit pension plan in Puerto Rico (the "Plan"). Effective December 31, 2003, employees ceased earning additional defined benefits for future services. To mitigate the Puerto Rico employees reduced benefits from the Plans suspension, effective January 1, 2004, the Company increased its contributions to the Puerto Rico 1165(e) defined contribution plan. In accordance with SFAS No. 88, "Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits," the Company recorded a curtailment loss of $1.9 million during the fourth quarter 2003. As of December 31, 2005, the Plans accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of its assets by $5.3 million. Interest Expense, net Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Interest expense $ 12.3 $ 15.2 $ 14.2 Interest income (2.6 ) (1.0 ) (1.0 ) $ 9.7 $ 14.2 $ 13.2 The decrease in interest expense for 2005 resulted primarily from lower average interest rates, including the effect of interest rate swaps. The increase in interest income resulted primarily from a higher cash and cash equivalent balance. The increase in interest expense for 2004 resulted primarily from a higher average debt balance, due largely to the financing of the PVT acquisition. Other (Income) Expense, net The following is a summary of other (income) expense, net (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Foreign exchange gain $ (2.1 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (10.6 ) Accounts receivable securitization costs 1.7 1.0 0.8 Asset dispositions and write downs 3.6 Other 0.2 (1.2 ) 1.5 $ (0.2 ) $ (0.4 ) $ (4.7 ) Foreign exchange gains relate to global trade and intercompany receivable and payable balances. 35 Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were impacted as follows (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Income tax expense at U.S. federal statutory rate $ 40.9 $ 10.5 $ 32.5 Foreign income tax at different rates (14.3 ) (22.5 ) (11.9 ) Deemed dividends, net of foreign tax credit 3.6 2.5 6.2 Tax credits, federal and state (2.0 ) (2.1 ) (2.1 ) (Benefit) from Brazil reorganization (13.7 ) State and local taxes, net of federal tax benefit and transactions listed separately (1.0 ) 0.8 1.0 Valuation allowance for loss on investments (6.2 ) 6.6 Nondeductible in process research and development expenses 27.8 Taxes on repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 15.0 Other 1.4 4.8 1.8 Income tax expense $ 37.4 $ 28.4 $ 13.8 The Company expects its effective income tax rate for recurring operations to be 26% for 2006. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") was signed into law in October 2004 and allowed companies to repatriate cash during 2004 and 2005 into the United States at a special, temporary effective tax rate of 5.25 percent. On September 13, 2005, the Board of Directors approved a plan for reinvestment and repatriation of specific foreign earnings under the Act. The Company repatriated $263.1 million in cash in 2005. The Company accrued $15.0 million for federal, state and foreign taxes attributable to the distribution from its foreign affiliates in 2005. Beginning in 2002 and through 2005, the Company recorded other than temporary impairments and unrealized losses related to certain of its investments in unconsolidated affiliates. The tax benefits that result from reductions in the value of these investments are subject to the Company realizing sufficient capital gains with which to offset these capital losses. Due to the uncertainty of the Company realizing future capital gains, the Company has consistently recorded valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets as they have accumulated. As of the fourth quarter of 2005, deferred tax assets and corresponding valuation allowances of approximately $26.9 million had accumulated. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company realized a capital gain related to the sale of its vascular graft business and anticipated a capital gain in January 2006 related to the settlement of the Medtronic litigation (see "Legal Proceedings"). These capital gains have allowed or will allow the Company to utilize the same amounts of the accumulated losses related to the depreciated investments. As a result, valuation allowances of $13.3 million were reversed, reducing income tax expense during the quarter. Of the $81.0 million charge for acquired in process research and development related to the PVT acquisition in 2004, as discussed in "Purchased in process Research and Development Expenses," $1.7 million related to tax deductible payments to exercise certain licensing options pursuant to the stock purchase agreement. The remaining $79.3 million charge is non deductible for income tax purposes. During 2003, the Company commenced a legal reorganization of its Brazil subsidiary to enhance its ability to conduct business in Brazil. Since being acquired a number of years ago, this subsidiary had incurred net operating losses due primarily to the devaluation of the local currency and interest expense incurred on inter company debt. In addition, the reorganization allowed the Company to recognize the accumulated losses and inter company debt write off under United States tax law, resulting in federal and state tax benefits of $13.7 million. 36  During 2003, the Company recapitalized its Japan subsidiary. As a result, a deemed dividend occurred for United States tax purposes resulting in an incremental tax provision of $6.2 million, net of foreign tax credits. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys sources of cash liquidity include cash on hand and cash equivalents, amounts available under credit facilities, accounts receivable securitization facilities and cash from operations. The Company believes that these sources are sufficient to fund the current requirements of working capital, capital expenditures and other financial commitments. The Company further believes that it has the financial flexibility to attract long term capital to fund short term and long term growth objectives. However, no assurances can be given that such long term capital will be available to Edwards Lifesciences on favorable terms, or at all. On June 28, 2004, the Company replaced an unsecured revolving credit agreement with an unsecured five year revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), which will expire on June 26, 2009. The Credit Agreement provides up to an aggregate of $500.0 million in one to six month borrowings in multiple currencies. Borrowings currently bear interest at the London interbank offering rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.5%, which includes a facility fee and is subject to adjustment in the event of a change in the Companys leverage ratio, as defined by the Credit Agreement. The Company pays a facility fee regardless of available or outstanding borrowings, currently at an annual rate of 0.1%. All amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement have been classified as long term obligations, as these borrowings will continue to be refinanced pursuant to the Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2005, borrowings of $166.1 million were outstanding under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains various financial and other covenants, all of which the Company was in compliance with as of December 31, 2005. As further discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has two securitization programs whereby certain subsidiaries in the United States and Japan sell, without recourse, on a continuous basis, an undivided interest in certain eligible pools of accounts receivable. The significant benefits of the securitizations are lower cost of funds and differentiated sources of liquidity. The Company has been able to effectively lower its overall cost of funds as a result of the interest rate spreads it pays on these advances as opposed to borrowings under the current LIBOR based credit facility. Additionally, the Company believes that in diversifying its funding sources, the Companys funding availability in the capital markets is strengthened. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had sold a total of $86.6 million of trade accounts receivable and received funding of $74.1 million. The securitization program in the United States expires on September 19, 2006, and the Japan securitization program expires on December 3, 2008. In May 2004, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to purchase on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions up to 2.0 million shares of the Companys common stock through December 31, 2006. In September 2005, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program allowing the repurchase of an additional 2.0 million shares of outstanding common stock through December 31, 2007. Stock repurchased under these programs will be used primarily to offset obligations under the Companys employee stock option programs. During 2005, the Company repurchased 1.2 million shares at an aggregate cost of $53.5 million and has remaining authority under the September 2005 program to purchase 1.9 million shares. As announced on January 23, 2006, the Company settled litigation with Medtronic. As a result, in January 2006, the Company recorded a gain of $20.2 million, which consists of the $37.5 million cash offset by the settlement paid to Endogad, capitalized patent enforcement costs of $2.9 million and current legal fees. See Item 3 for additional information. 37 Net cash flows provided by operating activities of $136.8 million for 2005 decreased $43.8 million from 2004 primarily due to lower earnings adjusted for non operating and non cash items in 2005. The lower earnings adjusted for non operating and non cash items was primarily a result of a $23.0 million payment related to restructuring of development and supply agreements and a $15.0 million contribution to the charitable fund in 2005. Operating cash flow was also impacted by net cash used to fund working capital requirements, which consisted of decreased net cash flows from receivables due to higher days sales outstanding in the United States, reduced cash flows from increases in inventories to build new product lines and support increased sales levels, partially offset by increased net cash flows from accounts payable and accrued liabilities, from increased taxes payable. Net cash provided by operating activities of $180.6 million in 2004 increased $38.5 million from 2003 due primarily to higher earnings in 2004 adjusted for non operating and non cash items, increased net cash flows from accounts payable and accrued liabilities, from increased taxes payable, and increased net cash flows from receivables from improved days sales outstanding, offsetting increased sales levels, partially offset by reduced cash flows from increases in inventories to build new product lines and support increased sales levels. Net cash used by investing activities of $27.2 million in 2005 consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $48.5 million, partially offset by proceeds from the sales of the Companys vascular graft business of $14.0 million and the Japan perfusion products business of $9.2 million. Net cash used in investing activities of $177.1 million in 2004 consisted primarily of the $137.7 million for the acquisition of PVT and the purchase of ev3s technology, plus capital expenditures of $42.5 million. Net cash provided by financing activities of $29.0 million in the 2005 consisted primarily of net proceeds from issuance of long term debt of $59.1 million and the proceeds from stock plans of $26.2 million, partially offset by purchases of treasury stock of $53.5 million. Net cash used in financing activities of $20.5 million in 2004 consisted primarily of purchases of treasury stock of $59.1 million, partially offset by proceeds from stock plans of $30.5 million and net proceeds from issuance of long term debt of $7.1 million. A summary of all of the Companys contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2005 were as follows (in millions): Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Long term debt $ 316.1 $ $ 150.0 $ 166.1 $ Interest on long term debt 19.7 7.7 12.0 Operating leases 34.1 10.1 14.5 8.5 1.0 Unconditional purchase obligations(a) 7.7 7.6 0.1 Contractual development obligations(b) 18.5 0.9 13.6 4.0 Total contractual cash obligations $ 396.1 $ 26.3 $ 190.2 $ 178.6 $ 1.0 (a)Unconditional purchase obligations consist primarily of minimum purchase commitments of inventory. (b)Contractual development obligations consist primarily of cash that Edwards Lifesciences is obligated to pay to unconsolidated affiliates upon their achievement of product development milestones. While it is not certain if and or when these payments will be made, the amounts and maturity dates included in this table reflect the Companys best estimates. 38 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys results of operations and financial position are determined based upon the application of the Companys accounting policies, as discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Certain of the Companys accounting policies represent a selection among acceptable alternatives under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP"). In evaluating the Companys transactions, management assesses all relevant GAAP and chooses the accounting policy that most accurately reflects the nature of the transactions. Management has not determined how reported amounts would differ based on the application of different accounting policies. Management has also not determined the likelihood that materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. The application of accounting policies requires the use of judgment and estimates. As it relates to the Company, estimates and forecasts are required to determine sales returns and reserves, rebate reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, investments in unconsolidated affiliates, workers compensation liabilities, employee benefit related liabilities, income taxes, any impairments of assets, forecasted transactions to be hedged, litigation reserves and contingencies. These matters that are subject to judgments and estimation are inherently uncertain, and different amounts could be reported using different assumptions and estimates. Management uses its best estimates and judgments in determining the appropriate amount to reflect in the financial statements, using historical experience and all available information. The Company also uses outside experts where appropriate. The Company applies estimation methodologies consistently from year to year. The Company believes the following are the critical accounting policies which could have the most significant effect on the Companys reported results and require subjective or complex judgments by management. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue for sales when all of the following have occurred: an agreement of sale exists, product delivery and acceptance has occurred or services have been rendered, and collection is reasonably assured. In the case of certain products where the Company maintains consigned inventory at customer locations, revenue is recognized at the time the Company is notified that the customer has used the inventory. The Company enters into certain arrangements in which it commits to provide multiple elements to its customers. Revenue related to an individual element is deferred unless delivery of the element represents a separate earnings process. Total revenue for these arrangements is allocated among the elements based on the fair value of the individual elements, with the relative fair values determined based on objective evidence (generally based on sales of the individual element to other third parties). Management is required to make judgments about whether or not collectibility is reasonably assured. When the Company recognizes revenue from the sale of its products, an estimate of various sales returns and allowances is recorded which reduces product sales and accounts receivable. These adjustments include estimates for charge backs, rebates, returns, and other sales allowances. These provisions are estimated based upon historical payment experience, historical relationship to revenues, estimated customer inventory levels and current contract sales terms with wholesale and indirect customers. If the historical data and inventory estimates used to calculate these provisions do not approximate future activity, the Companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be impacted. The Companys estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third party data, as certain third party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations. 39 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records allowances for doubtful accounts based on customer specific analysis and general matters such as current assessments of past due balances and economic conditions. Additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be required if there is deterioration in past due balances, if economic conditions are less favorable than the Company has anticipated or for customer specific circumstances, such as financial difficulty. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $5.4 million and $5.2 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Excess and Obsolete Inventory The Company records allowances for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and estimated future demand and market conditions. Additional inventory allowances may be required if future demand or market conditions are less favorable than the Company has estimated. Inventory reserves result from inventory which is obsolete, nearing its expiration date (generally triggered at six months prior to expiration), or damaged or slow moving (defined as quantities in excess of a two year supply). The allowance for excess and obsolete inventory was $12.3 million and $15.5 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Patent Costs The Company expenses legal costs incurred for patent preparation and applications. The Company capitalizes legal costs related to the defense and enforcement of issued patents for which success is deemed probable. The related costs are amortized over the remaining useful lives of the patents using the straight line method. Such deferred costs are periodically reviewed for impairment and recoverability. To the extent the Company is successful in its defense and enforcement of its patents and receives compensation for past infringement, costs capitalized in connection with the specific defense or enforcement are expensed as an offset against any gain received. Impairment of Long Lived Assets The Company evaluates the carrying value of goodwill in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. In evaluating goodwill, the Company completes the two step goodwill impairment test as required by SFAS no. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." The Company identifies its reporting units and determines the carrying value of each reporting unit by assigning the assets and liabilities, including existing goodwill, to those reporting units. The fair value of the reporting unit is estimated based on the market capitalization and revenue multiple. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the Company will perform the second step of the impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill with its carrying value. Since the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company has not performed the second step of the impairment test as the fair value of each reporting unit has exceeded its respective carrying value. Additionally, management reviews the carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible and long lived tangible assets whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment indicators include, among other conditions, cash flow deficits, historic or anticipated declines in revenue or operating profit and adverse legal or regulatory developments. If it is determined that such indicators are present and the review indicates that the assets will not be fully recoverable, based on undiscounted estimated cash flows over the remaining amortization periods, their carrying values are reduced to estimated fair market value. Estimated fair market value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. For the purposes of identifying and measuring impairment, 40 long lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates Investments in unconsolidated affiliates are long term, strategic equity investments in companies that are in varied stages of development. Certain of these investments are designated as available for sale in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." These investments are carried at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders equity as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Gains or losses on investments sold are based on the specific identification method. Other investments in unconsolidated affiliates are accounted for under the cost or the equity method of accounting, as appropriate. Various methods are used to estimate fair value, including discounted cash flows. Investments accounted for under the equity method are recorded at the amount of the Companys investment and adjusted each period for the Companys share of the investees income or loss and dividends paid. When the fair value of any investment declines below cost, management uses the following criteria to determine if such a decline should be considered other than temporary and result in a realized loss: the duration and extent to which the market value has been less than cost; the financial condition and near term prospects of the investee; the reasons for the decline in market value; the investees performance against product development milestones; and the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Income Taxes The Company records a liability for potential tax assessments based on its estimate of the potential exposure. New laws and new interpretations of laws and rulings by tax authorities may affect the liability for potential tax assessments. Due to the subjectivity and complex nature of the underlying issues, actual payments or assessments may differ from estimates. To the extent the Companys estimates differ from actual payments or assessments, income tax expense is adjusted. Additional information regarding income taxes is included in Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Companys financial statements or tax returns. At December 31, 2005, the Company had deferred tax assets of $120.5 million, partially offset by deferred tax liabilities of $56.2 million. The valuation allowance of $25.2 million as of December 31, 2005, reduces certain deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. This allowance primarily relates to the deferred tax assets established for certain investments and the net operating loss carryforwards of certain United States and non United States subsidiaries. The Company evaluates annually the realizability of its deferred tax assets by assessing its valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of such allowance, if necessary. The factors used to assess the likelihood of realization are the Companys forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets. Failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable taxing jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in the Companys effective tax rate on future earnings. 41 Employee Stock Option and Stock Purchase Plans The Company applies the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," in accounting for its fixed stock option and employee stock purchase plans. In accordance with this intrinsic value method, no compensation expense is recognized for these plans. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation," (in millions, except per share amounts): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Net income, as reported $ 79.3 $ 1.7 $ 79.0 Add: Total stock based employee compensation included in reported net income, net of related taxes 1.5 Deduct: Total stock based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all awards, net of tax (15.8 ) (15.7 ) (16.0 ) Pro forma net income (loss) $ 65.0 $ (14.0 ) $ 63.0 Earnings per basic share: Reported net income $ 1.33 $ 0.03 $ 1.34 Pro forma net income (loss) 1.09 (0.23 ) 1.07 Earnings per diluted share: Reported net income 1.27 0.03 1.29 Pro forma net income (loss) 1.04 (0.23 ) 1.03 The per share weighted average fair value for options granted during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $13.36, $11.96, and $10.93, respectively. The fair value of each option was estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: 2005 2004 2003 Average risk free interest rate 3.8 % 3.5 % 2.5 % Expected dividend yield None None None Expected volatility 30 % 41 % 42 % Expected life (years) 4 4 4 The pro forma expense for employee stock purchase subscriptions was calculated with the following weighted average assumptions for grants during the following periods: 2005 2004 2003 Average risk free interest rate 4.1 % 2.2 % 1.3 % Expected dividend yield None None None Expected volatility 21 % 40 % 42 % Expected life (years) 1 1 1 The average risk free interest rate, expected volatility and expected life assumptions for the stock option and stock purchase plans used in the Black Scholes option pricing model are estimated on the date of each grant. Effects of Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections," ("SFAS No. 154") a replacement of Accounting 42 Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 20, "Accounting Changes," and FASB Statement No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements." SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Previously, most voluntary changes in accounting principles required recognition by recording a cumulative effect adjustment within net income in the period of change. SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not believe SFAS No. 154 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued a revision of Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123R"). This Statement supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and its related implementation guidance. SFAS No. 123R eliminates the alternative to use APB Opinion No. 25s intrinsic value method of accounting that was provided in FASB Statement No. 123 as originally issued. Under APB Opinion No. 25, issuing stock options to employees generally resulted in recognition of no compensation cost. SFAS No. 123R requires entities to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of those awards (with limited exceptions). Although SFAS No. 123R was to be effective for the first interim or annual reporting period that began after June 15, 2005, on April 15, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") extended the date for compliance. The Company is not required to prepare financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 123R until the first quarter of 2006. In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ("SAB 107"), which provides the Staffs view regarding interactions between SFAS No. 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations, and provides interpretations of the valuation of share based payments for public companies. SAB 107 covers key topics related to the implementation of SFAS No. 123R which include the valuation models, expected volatility, expected option term, income tax effects of SFAS No. 123R, classification of stock based compensation cost, capitalization of compensation cost, and disclosure requirements. The Company has selected the Black Scholes option pricing model as the most appropriate fair value method for the awards and will recognize compensation cost on a straight line basis over the awards vesting periods. The Company expects that the adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. However, uncertainties, including the Companys future stock based compensation strategy, stock price volatility, estimated forfeitures and employee stock option exercise behavior, make it difficult to determine whether the stock based compensation expense that the Company will incur in future periods will be similar to the SFAS No. 123 pro forma expense disclosed at "Employee Stock Option and Stock Purchase Plans." In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 151, "Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4." This Statement amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4, "Inventory Pricing," to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). This Statement is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not expect adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk The Companys business and financial results are affected by fluctuations in world financial markets, including currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Companys hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on managements judgment of the appropriate trade off between risk, opportunity and costs. 43 Edwards Lifesciences maintains an overall risk management strategy that utilizes a variety of interest rate and currency derivative financial instruments to mitigate its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. The derivative instruments used include interest rate swaps, option based products and forward currency contracts. The Company does not use any of these instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The total notional amounts of the Companys derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $198.0 million and $448.3 million, respectively. The notional amounts of interest rate swap agreements, option based products, and forward currency contracts do not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and are not a measure of the Companys exposure through its use of derivatives. Interest Rate Risk The Company utilizes interest rate swap agreements in managing its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Interest rate swap agreements are executed as an integral part of specific debt transactions or on a portfolio basis. The Companys interest rate swap agreements involve agreements to pay a fixed rate and receive a floating rate, at specified intervals, calculated on an agreed upon notional amount. There were no interest rate swaps in effect as of December 31, 2005. As part of its overall risk management program the Company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential gains and losses in earnings and changes in fair values to hypothetical movements in interest rates. A 54 basis point increase in interest rates (approximately 10 percent of the Companys weighted average interest rate) affecting the Companys financial instruments, including debt obligations and related derivatives and investments, would have an immaterial effect on the Companys annual interest expense. Currency Risk The Company is primarily exposed to currency exchange rate risk with respect to its transactions and net assets denominated in Japanese yen and the Euro. Business activities in various currencies expose the Company to the risk that the eventual net United States dollar cash inflows resulting from transactions with foreign customers and suppliers denominated in foreign currencies may be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. The Company manages these risks utilizing various types of foreign exchange contracts. The Company also enters into foreign exchange contracts to hedge anticipated, but not yet committed, sales expected to be denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the Company hedges certain of its net investments in international affiliates. Such contracts hedge the United States dollar value of foreign currency denominated net assets from the effects of volatility in currency exchange rates by creating debt denominated in the respective currencies of the underlying net assets. Any changes in the carrying value of these net investments that are a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates are offset by changes in the carrying value of the foreign currency denominated debt that are a result of the same fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As part of the strategy to manage risk while minimizing hedging costs, the Company utilizes both foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option based products in managing its exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Option based products consist of purchased put options and, at times, written (sold) call options to create collars. Option based products are agreements that either grant the Company the right to receive, or require the Company to make payments at, specified currency rate levels. As part of its risk management process, the Company uses a value at risk ("VAR") methodology in connection with other management tools to assess and manage its foreign currency financial instruments and measure any potential loss in earnings as a result of adverse movements in currency exchange rates. The Company utilizes a Monte Carlo simulation, with a 95 percent confidence level and a 14 day holding period, to estimate this potential loss. The Companys calculated VAR at 44 December 31, 2005 and 2004, with a maturity of up to one year, is $4.3 million and $5.0 million, respectively. This amount excludes the potential effects of any changes in the value of the underlying transactions or balances. The Companys calculated VAR exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on its portfolio of financial instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results which may occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur. Actual future gains or losses may differ from (and could be significantly greater than) these estimates based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, and changes in the Companys portfolio of derivatives during the measured periods. In addition, the assumption within the VAR model is that changes in currency exchange rates are adverse, which may not be the case. Any loss incurred on the financial instruments is expected to be offset by the effects of currency movements on the hedging of all exposures; there may be currency exchange rate gains or losses in the future. Credit Risk Derivative financial instruments used by the Company involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit risk in the event a counter party should default and market risk as the instruments are subject to rate and price fluctuations. Credit risk is managed through the use of credit standard guidelines, counter party diversification, monitoring of counter party financial condition and master netting agreements in place with all derivative counter parties. Credit exposure of derivative financial instruments is represented by the fair value effects of contracts with a positive fair value at December 31, 2005 reduced by the effects of master netting agreements. Additionally, at December 31, 2005, all derivative financial instruments were with commercial banks and investment banking firms assigned investment grade ratings of "AA" or better by national rating agencies. The Company does not anticipate non performance by its counter parties and has no reserves related to non performance as of December 31, 2005; the Company has not experienced any counterparty default during the five years ended December 31, 2005. Concentrations of Credit Risk In the normal course of business, Edwards Lifesciences provides credit to customers in the healthcare industry, performs credit evaluations of these customers and maintains allowances for potential credit losses which have historically been adequate compared to actual losses. In 2005, the Company had no customers that represent greater than 10% of its total net sales or accounts receivable, net. Investment Risk Edwards Lifesciences is exposed to investment risks related to changes in the fair values of its investments. The Company invests in equity instruments of public and private companies. These investments are classified in "Investments in unconsolidated affiliates" on the consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2005, Edwards Lifesciences had approximately $10.7 million of investments in equity instruments of other companies and had recorded unrealized losses of $0.6 million on these investments in "Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)," net of tax. Management considers these declines temporary in nature based upon the individual companies operating results, financial condition and achievement of product development milestones. Should these companies experience a decline in financial condition or fail to meet certain development milestones, the decline in the investments values may be considered other than temporary and impairment charges may be necessary. 45  
 
