Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis presents the factors that had a material effect on the results of operations of Edwards Lifesciences during the three years ended December 31, 2011. Also discussed is Edwards Lifesciences financial position as of December 31, 2011. You should read this discussion in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Overview Edwards Lifesciences Corporation is a global leader in the science of heart valves and hemodynamic monitoring. Driven by a passion to help patients, the Company partners with clinicians to develop innovative technologies in the areas of structural heart disease and critical care monitoring that enable them to save and enhance lives. The products and technologies provided by Edwards Lifesciences are categorized into four main areas: Heart Valve Therapy; Critical Care; Cardiac Surgery Systems; and Vascular. Edwards Lifesciences Heart Valve Therapy portfolio is comprised of tissue heart valves and heart valve repair products. A pioneer in the development and commercialization of heart valve products, Edwards Lifesciences is the worlds leading manufacturer of tissue heart valves and repair products used to replace or repair a patients diseased or defective heart valve. In the Critical Care area, Edwards Lifesciences is a world 24 Table of Contents leader in hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patients cardiovascular function. Prior to September 2009, Edwards Lifesciences provided products for continuous renal replacement therapy ("hemofiltration product line"). The Company sold the hemofiltration product line in September 2009. The Companys Cardiac Surgery Systems portfolio comprises a diverse line of products for use during cardiac surgery including cannulae, embolic protection devices and other products used during cardiopulmonary bypass and minimally invasive surgical procedures. Edwards Lifesciences Vascular portfolio includes a line of balloon catheter based products, surgical clips and inserts. Edwards Lifesciences manufactured and sold LifeStent balloon expandable and self expanding non coronary stents until the sale of this product line in January 2008. The Company continued to manufacture these products for the buyer until September 2009 when manufacturing was transferred to the buyer. The healthcare marketplace continues to be competitive with strong global and local competitors. The Company competes with many companies, ranging from small start up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than Edwards Lifesciences with access to significant financial resources. Furthermore, rapid product development and technological change characterize the market in which the Company competes. Global demand for healthcare is increasing as the population ages. There is mounting pressure to contain healthcare costs in the face of this increasing demand, which has resulted in pricing and market share pressures. The cardiovascular segment of the medical device industry is dynamic, and technology, cost of care considerations, regulatory reform, industry and customer consolidation, and evolving patient needs are expected to continue to drive change. In 2010, significant reforms to the healthcare system were adopted as law in the United States. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. The excise tax will increase the Companys operating expenses. Because many parts of the 2010 healthcare law remain subject to implementation, the long term impact on the Company is uncertain. The new law or any future legislation could reduce medical procedure volumes, lower reimbursement for the Companys products, and impact the demand for the Companys products or the prices at which the Company sells its products. Results of Operations Net Sales by Major Regions (dollars in millions) Years Ended December 31, Change Percent Change 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2011 2010 United States $ 605.6 $ 567.6 $ 556.1 $ 38.0 $ 11.5 6.7 % 2.1 % Europe 574.0 457.0 404.6 117.0 52.4 25.6 % 13.0 % Japan 283.7 247.8 214.1 35.9 33.7 14.5 % 15.7 % Rest of World 215.3 174.6 146.6 40.7 28.0 23.3 % 19.1 % International 1,073.0 879.4 765.3 193.6 114.1 22.0 % 14.9 % Total net sales $ 1,678.6 $ 1,447.0 $ 1,321.4 $ 231.6 $ 125.6 16.0 % 9.5 % The $38.0 million increase in net sales in the United States in 2011 was due primarily to: Heart Valve Therapy products, which increased net sales by $28.5 million, driven primarily by (1) sales of the Edwards SAPIEN and SAPIEN XT transcatheter heart valves for clinical trials and commercial sales resulting from the United States launch in the fourth quarter of 2011, and (2) the 25 Table of Contents Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna Aortic Ease and Magna Mitral Ease valves (launched in the third quarter of 2010); and Critical Care products, which increased net sales by $11.2 million, driven primarily by the FloTrac minimally invasive monitoring system and pressure monitoring products. The $193.6 million increase in international net sales in 2011 was due primarily to: Heart Valve Therapy products, which increased net sales by $104.3 million, driven primarily by commercial sales of the Edwards SAPIEN XT transcatheter heart valve and the Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna Aortic Ease valve; Critical Care products, which increased net sales by $20.9 million, driven primarily by pressure monitoring products and the FloTrac minimally invasive monitoring system; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $58.0 million, due to the strengthening of various currencies against the United States dollar, primarily the Euro and the Japanese yen. The $11.5 million increase in net sales in the United States in 2010 was due primarily to: Heart Valve Therapy products, which increased net sales by $9.7 million, driven primarily by the Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna Aortic Ease valve (launched in the second quarter of 2009), Magna Mitral Ease valve (launched in the third quarter of 2010), Physio II ring (launched in the first quarter of 2009), and sales of the Edwards SAPIEN transcatheter heart valve for clinical trials; Critical Care products, which increased net sales by $5.7 million, driven primarily by the FloTrac minimally invasive monitoring system; and Cardiac Surgery Systems products, which increased net sales by $2.7 million, driven primarily by the minimally invasive surgery ("MIS") product line; partially offset by: the discontinuance of manufacturing in September 2009 of the divested LifeStent product line, which decreased net sales by $8.2 million. The $114.1 million increase in international net sales in 2010 was due primarily to: Heart Valve Therapy products, which increased net sales by $112.6 million, driven primarily by the Edwards SAPIEN XT transcatheter heart valve, the Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna Ease valve and the new Carpentier Edwards Physio II ring, which was launched in Europe in the first quarter of 2009 and in Japan in the first quarter of 2010; Critical Care products, which increased net sales by $18.1 million, driven primarily by the FloTrac minimally invasive monitoring system and pressure monitoring products; Cardiac Surgery Systems products, which increased net sales by $4.1 million, driven primarily by specialty cannula products; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $8.6 million, due to the strengthening of various currencies against the United States dollar, primarily the Japanese yen, partially offset by the weakening of the Euro against the United States dollar; partially offset by: hemofiltration products, which decreased net sales by $32.0 million. The Company sold its hemofiltration product line in September 2009. For more information see "Special Charges (Gains), net." 26 Table of Contents The impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on net sales is not necessarily indicative of the impact on net income due to the corresponding effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on international manufacturing and operating costs and the Companys hedging activities. For more information see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Net Sales by Product Line (dollars in millions) Years Ended December 31, Change Percent Change 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2011 2010 Heart Valve Therapy $ 1,010.7 $ 838.3 $ 714.9 $ 172.4 $ 123.4 20.6 % 17.3 % Critical Care 508.3 454.1 452.5 54.2 1.6 11.9 % 0.4 % Cardiac Surgery Systems 107.5 100.2 92.8 7.3 7.4 7.3 % 8.0 % Vascular 52.1 54.4 61.2 (2.3 ) (6.8 ) (4.4 )% (11.1 )% Total net sales $ 1,678.6 $ 1,447.0 $ 1,321.4 $ 231.6 $ 125.6 16.0 % 9.5 % Heart Valve Therapy The $172.4 million increase in net sales of Heart Valve Therapy products in 2011 was due primarily to: transcatheter heart valves, which increased net sales by $111.7 million primarily as a result of the Edwards SAPIEN XT transcatheter heart valve; surgical heart valves, which increased net sales by $21.1 million, primarily as a result of the Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna Aortic Ease and Magna Mitral Ease valves; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $33.6 million due primarily to the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar. The $123.4 million increase in net sales of Heart Valve Therapy products in 2010 was due primarily to: the Edwards SAPIEN XT transcatheter heart valve, which increased net sales by $99.0 million; and pericardial tissue valves, which increased net sales by $26.2 million, primarily as a result of the Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna Aortic Ease valve. In November 2011, the Company received approval from the FDA for the transfemoral delivery of the Edwards SAPIEN transcatheter heart valve for treatment of certain inoperable patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. During the second quarter of 2011, the Company received regulatory approval and initiated its launch of the Carpentier Edwards Physio Tricuspid annuloplasty ring in the United States and Europe. In Japan, the Company obtained approval of its Carpentier Edwards PERIMOUNT Magna Aortic Ease valve in July 2011, and introduced this product in the third quarter of 2011. In Europe, the Company received CE Mark in February 2012 for EDWARDS INTUITY, its minimally invasive aortic valve surgery system. Critical Care The $54.2 million increase in net sales of Critical Care products in 2011 was due primarily to: pressure monitoring products, which increased net sales by $15.4 million; advanced monitoring products, led by FloTrac systems, which increased net sales by $13.1 million, and the EV1000 Clinical Platform, which increased net sales by $5.7 million; and 27 Table of Contents foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $19.4 million, due primarily to the strengthening of the Euro and Japanese yen against the United States dollar. The $1.6 million increase in net sales of Critical Care products in 2010 was due primarily to: advanced monitoring products, led by FloTrac systems, which increased net sales by $14.2 million, and PreSep, the Companys continuous central venous oximetry catheter for early detection of sepsis, which increased net sales by $3.3 million; pressure monitoring products, which increased net sales by $8.5 million; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $8.7 million, due primarily to the strengthening of the Japanese yen against the United States dollar; partially offset by: hemofiltration products, which decreased net sales by $32.3 million. The Company sold its hemofiltration product line in September 2009. Cardiac Surgery Systems The $7.3 million increase in net sales of Cardiac Surgery Systems products in 2011 was due primarily to specialty cannula products, which increased net sales by $3.1 million, and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which increased net sales by $2.8 million due primarily to the strengthening of the Euro and the Japanese yen against the United States dollar. The $7.4 million increase in net sales of Cardiac Surgery Systems products in 2010 was due primarily to MIS products, which increased net sales by $3.7 million, and specialty cannula products, which increased net sales by $3.1 million. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company obtained CE Mark and 510(k) clearance for its IntraClude aortic occlusion device. IntraClude is the first of several new products that the Company expects to introduce in its MIS portfolio. Vascular The $2.3 million decrease in net sales of Vascular products in 2011 was due primarily to the Companys discontinued distribution of artificial implantable grafts during the first quarter of 2011. The $6.8 million decrease in net sales of Vascular products in 2010 was due primarily to the discontinuance of manufacturing in September 2009 of the divested LifeStent product line. Gross Profit Years Ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 70.8 % 71.8 % 69.8 % (1.0 ) pts. 2.0 pts. The 1.0 percentage point decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales in 2011 was driven by: a 1.3 percentage point decrease due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the outcome of foreign currency hedging contracts; and investments in the expansion of the Companys international manufacturing capacity in preparation for its transcatheter heart valve launch in the United States; 28  Table of Contents partially offset by: a 0.5 percentage point increase in international markets due to a more profitable international product mix, primarily higher sales of transcatheter heart valves; and a 0.3 percentage point increase in the United States due to a more profitable product mix, primarily higher sales of Heart Valve Therapy products, including transcatheter heart valves, and Critical Care products. The 2.0 percentage point increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales in 2010 was driven by: a 1.5 percentage point increase due to a more profitable international product mix, primarily higher sales of transcatheter heart valves and the divestiture of the hemofiltration product line, and the favorable impact of manufacturing performance; and a 0.5 percentage point increase primarily due to the favorable impact of manufacturing performance in the United States. Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses (dollars in millions) Years Ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 SG&A expenses $ 642.4 $ 550.0 $ 508.8 $ 92.4 $ 41.2 SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales 38.3 % 38.0 % 38.5 % 0.3 pts. (0.5 )pts. The $92.4 million increase in SG&A expenses in 2011 was due primarily to higher sales and marketing expenses in the United States and Europe, mainly to support the transcatheter heart valve program, including the launch in the United States. Foreign currency rate fluctuations increased SG&A expenses by $21.3 million due to the strengthening of various currencies against the United States dollar, primarily the Euro and the Japanese yen. The $41.2 million increase in SG&A expenses in 2010 was primarily in Europe due to (1) higher sales and marketing expenses, primarily to support the transcatheter heart valve program, and (2) higher sales related spending in the Critical Care and Surgical Heart Valve Therapy product lines. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of $2.7 million, primarily due to the strengthening of various currencies against the United States dollar, primarily the Japanese yen, partially offset by the weakening of the Euro against the United States dollar. Research and Development Expenses (dollars in millions) Years Ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 Research and development expenses $ 246.3 $ 204.4 $ 175.5 $ 41.9 $ 28.9 Research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales 14.7 % 14.1 % 13.3 % 0.6 pts. 0.8 pts. The increase in research and development expenses in 2011 was due primarily to additional investments in clinical studies and new product development efforts in the transcatheter heart valve program. The increase in research and development expenses in 2010 was due to additional investments in all major product lines, primarily the transcatheter heart valve program. 29 Table of Contents The following are the developments related to the Companys transcatheter heart valve program: the Company received conditional IDE approval from the FDA in March 2007 to initiate The PARTNER Trial, a pivotal clinical trial of the Companys Edwards SAPIEN transcatheter heart valve technology. The PARTNER Trial, which has two study arms, evaluated the Edwards SAPIEN transcatheter heart valve in patients who are considered at high risk for conventional open heart valve surgery. In the first study arm ("Cohort A"), patients were randomized on a 1:1 basis to either high risk surgery or the Edwards SAPIEN transcatheter heart valve. In the second study arm ("Cohort B"), patients who were deemed non operable were randomized 1:1 to medical management or the Edwards SAPIEN transcatheter heart valve. In addition, the Company received FDA approval for non randomized continued access for all of its existing PARTNER sites. During 2010, positive one year data from Cohort B was published and the Company completed the submission of its pre market approval application ("PMA") to the FDA. In November 2011, the Company received approval from the FDA for the transfemoral delivery of the Edwards SAPIEN transcatheter heart valve for treatment of certain inoperable patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. During the second quarter of 2011, the Company announced that one year Cohort A trial data met all its primary endpoints and submitted its PMA for Cohort A to the FDA; in the United States, the Company submitted an IDE for the Edwards SAPIEN XT transcatheter heart valve in October 2009. The PARTNER II trial will evaluate the Edwards SAPIEN XT with both the NovaFlex and Ascendra2 delivery systems. In February 2011, the Company received conditional IDE approval from the FDA for the first pivotal cohort of the PARTNER II trial ("PARTNER II Cohort B"). PARTNER II Cohort B is a study of up to 600 inoperable patients with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis using a 1:1 randomization of the Edwards SAPIEN XT with the NovaFlex transfemoral delivery system versus the Edwards SAPIEN with the RetroFlex 3 delivery system. In January 2012, the Company completed enrollment in this cohort of inoperable patients. In November 2011, the Company received conditional IDE approval from the FDA for the second planned cohort ("PARTNER II Cohort A"). PARTNER II Cohort A is a non inferiority study of up to 2,000 patients with severe, symptomatic aortic valve stenosis who have an elevated risk for traditional open heart surgery. Patients will be evenly randomized to receive the Edwards SAPIEN XT valve or surgery. Those undergoing transcatheter valve replacement will be treated either transfemorally or transapically; in Japan, the Company began enrolling patients in a clinical trial with its SAPIEN XT valve, called PREVAIL JAPAN, during 2010. The PREVAIL JAPAN clinical trial will evaluate SAPIEN XT with both the transfemoral and transapical delivery systems. The Company believes that successful trial completion could result in an approval as early as 2013; and in Europe, the Company expects to commence clinical trials in 2012 for SAPIEN 3, its next generation balloon expandable valve that includes a unique feature to further reduce parvalvular leak, and CENTERA, its repositionable, self expanding valve featuring a motorized delivery system designed for stable deployment and single operator use. 30 Table of Contents Special Charges (Gains), net (in millions) Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 European receivables $ 12.8 $ $ Realignment expenses 5.5 7.2 Settlements and litigation 3.3 3.8 MONARC program discontinuation 8.3 Investment impairment 7.2 1.6 Gain on sale of assets, net (86.9 ) Charitable fund contribution 15.0 Adjustment to capitalized patent enforcement costs 3.7 Reserve reversal (1.0 ) Total special charges (gains), net $ 21.6 $ 22.7 $ (63.8 ) European Receivables During 2011, the Company recorded a $12.8 million charge to reflect the increased risk associated with its southern European receivables, primarily Greece. Realignment Expenses In December 2011, the Company recorded a $5.5 million charge related primarily to severance expenses associated with a global workforce realignment impacting 49 employees. As of December 31, 2011, the Companys remaining severance obligations of $5.2 million are expected to be substantially paid by March 2013. In December 2010, the Company recorded a $7.2 million charge related primarily to severance expenses associated with a global workforce realignment impacting 84 employees. As of December 31, 2011, the Companys remaining severance obligations of $1.2 million are expected to be substantially paid by June 2012. Settlements and Litigation In December 2011, the Company recorded a $3.3 million charge related to a litigation settlement. In September 2009, the Company recorded a $3.8 million charge for litigation related to a royalty dispute in connection with a product in the Companys Cardiac Surgery Systems product line. MONARC Program Discontinuation During the second quarter of 2010, the Company decided to discontinue its MONARC transcatheter mitral valve program due to slow enrollment in the EVOLUTION II trial. As a result, the Company recorded an $8.3 million charge consisting of a $7.6 million impairment of intangible assets associated with the program and $0.7 million of clinical trial costs that will continue to be incurred under a contractual obligation that existed prior to the discontinuation date. Investment Impairment During 2010, the Company recorded a $7.2 million charge related to the other than temporary impairment of certain of its investments in unconsolidated affiliates. The Company concluded that the impairment of these investments was other than temporary based upon the continuing duration and severity of the impairment. 31  Table of Contents In September 2009, the Company recorded a $1.6 million charge related to the other than temporary impairment of its investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. The Company concluded that the impairment of its investment was other than temporary based upon (a) the continuing duration and severity of the impairment and (b) positive clinical trial developments in the third quarter of 2009 which failed to raise the quoted market price of the affiliates stock to the Companys carrying value. Gain on Sale of Assets, net In September 2009, the Company sold its hemofiltration product line. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company received a cash payment of $55.9 million, and was entitled to earn out payments up to $9.0 million based on certain revenue objectives to be achieved by the buyer over the two years following the sale. As of March 31, 2011, all earn out payments had been earned. The sale resulted in a pre tax gain of $43.6 million consisting of the cash proceeds of $55.9 million, offset by $8.5 million related to the net book value of inventory, fixed assets and intangible assets that were sold, satisfaction of a $0.6 million receivable, a $0.5 million write off of goodwill associated with this product line and $2.7 million of transaction and other costs related to the sale. In connection with this transaction, the Company also recorded a $1.5 million charge in June 2009 for transaction costs and employee severance. In March 2009, the Company recorded a $2.8 million gain related to the sale of its distribution rights in Europe for a specialty vascular graft. In January 2008, the Company sold certain assets related to the Edwards LifeStent peripheral vascular product line. During 2009, under the terms of the sale agreement, the Company received $42.0 million in milestone payments. Charitable Fund Contribution In September 2009, the Company contributed $15.0 million to The Edwards Lifesciences Fund, a donor advised fund intended to provide philanthropic support to cardiovascular and community related charitable causes. The contribution was an irrevocable contribution to a third party, and was recorded as an expense at the time of payment. Adjustment to Capitalized Patent Enforcement Costs In December 2009, the Company recorded a $3.7 million charge for the write off of capitalized patent enforcement costs related to litigation in Europe for which success was no longer deemed probable. Reserve Reversal During 2004, the Company discontinued its Lifepath AAA endovascular graft program. In March 2009, upon completion of its remaining clinical obligations related to this program, the Company reversed its remaining $1.0 million clinical reserve. Interest Expense Interest expense was $3.1 million, $2.4 million and $2.7 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $0.7 million increase in interest expense for 2011 resulted primarily from a higher average debt balance as compared to the prior year. The $0.3 million decrease in interest expense for 2010 resulted primarily from prior year interest expense related to a sales and use tax audit settlement, partially offset by a higher average debt balance as compared to the prior year. Interest Income Interest income was $3.4 million, $0.9 million and $1.6 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $2.5 million increase in interest income for 2011 resulted primarily from higher investment returns. The 32 Table of Contents $0.7 million decrease in interest income for 2010 resulted primarily from lower average interest rates, partially offset by higher balances of cash and cash equivalents. Other Income, net (in millions) Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Gains on investments in unconsolidated affiliates $ (5.4 ) $ (0.8 ) $ (1.2 ) Foreign exchange losses (gains), net 1.9 (0.2 ) (2.3 ) Earn out payments (1.0 ) (6.0 ) (2.1 ) Other (0.3 ) (1.1 ) 1.9 Total other income, net $ (4.8 ) $ (8.1 ) $ (3.7 ) The gains on investments in unconsolidated affiliates primarily represents the Companys net share of gains and losses in investments accounted for under the equity method, and realized gains and losses on the Companys available for sale and cost method investments. The foreign exchange losses (gains) relate to the foreign currency fluctuations in the Companys global trade and intercompany receivable and payable balances. Foreign exchange fluctuations (primarily related to United States dollar payables in non United States dollar functional currency locations) resulted in a net loss in 2011. In September 2009, the Company sold its hemofiltration product line. In connection with the transaction, the Company was entitled to earn out payments up to $9.0 million based on certain revenue objectives to be achieved by the buyer over the two years following the sale. As of March 31, 2011, all earn out payments had been earned. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective income tax rates for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were impacted as follows (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Income tax expense at U.S. federal statutory rate $ 99.2 $ 93.9 $ 106.5 Foreign income tax at different rates (57.4 ) (28.1 ) (27.9 ) U.S. tax on foreign earnings, net of credits 11.8 2.2 1.0 Tax credits, federal and state (10.4 ) (7.8 ) (5.5 ) State and local taxes, net of federal tax benefit 4.6 4.1 4.9 Release of reserve for uncertain tax positions for prior years (4.1 ) (13.4 ) (3.8 ) Nondeductible stock based compensation 1.9 1.9 1.4 Other 1.3 (2.6 ) (1.3 ) Income tax provision $ 46.9 $ 50.2 $ 75.3 Reserve for Uncertain Tax Positions As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the liability for income taxes associated with uncertain tax positions was $78.0 million and $55.1 million, respectively. The Company estimates that these liabilities would be reduced by $6.8 million and $4.7 million, respectively, from offsetting tax benefits associated with the 33 Table of Contents correlative effects of potential transfer pricing adjustments, state income taxes and timing adjustments. The net amounts of $71.2 million and $50.4 million, respectively, if not required, would favorably affect the Companys effective tax rate. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, penalties and foreign exchange, is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Unrecognized tax benefits, January 1 $ 55.1 $ 47.1 $ 35.9 Current year tax positions 26.0 20.8 15.7 Increase prior period tax positions 5.9 8.6 8.9 Decrease prior period tax positions (5.5 ) (20.1 ) (9.4 ) Settlements (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (3.6 ) Lapse of statutes of limitations (3.4 ) (1.2 ) (0.4 ) Unrecognized tax benefits, December 31 $ 78.0 $ 55.1 $ 47.1 The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to uncertain tax positions in the provision for income taxes. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had accrued $2.0 million (net of $1.2 million tax benefit) of interest related to uncertain tax positions, and as of December 31, 2010, the Company had accrued $1.7 million (net of $1.4 million tax benefit) of interest related to uncertain tax positions. The Company strives to resolve open matters with each tax authority at the examination level and could reach agreement with a tax authority at any time. While the Company has accrued for matters it believes are more likely than not to require settlement, the final outcome with a tax authority may result in a tax liability that is more or less than that reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, the Company may later decide to challenge any assessments, if made, and may exercise its right to appeal. The uncertain tax positions are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as events occur that affect potential liabilities for additional taxes, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, proposed assessments by tax authorities, negotiations between tax authorities, identification of new issues and issuance of new legislation, regulations or case law. Management believes that adequate amounts of tax and related penalty and interest have been provided in income tax expense for any adjustments that may result from these uncertain tax positions. At December 31, 2011, all material state, local and foreign income tax matters have been concluded for years through 2006. The Internal Revenue Service has completed its examination of the Companys 2007 and 2008 tax years for all matters except for certain transfer pricing issues. The appeals process for those transfer pricing issues is on going. The Internal Revenue Service began its examination of the 2009 and 2010 tax years during the second quarter of 2011. As a result of on going negotiations of an Advanced Pricing Agreement between Switzerland and the United States, the expiration of statutes of limitations, and the possible settlement of on going audits in several jurisdictions for multiple years throughout the world, the total liability for unrecognized tax benefits may change within the next 12 months. The range of such change could vary, but the amount of such change is not expected to be material. In February 2009, California enacted tax legislation which was effective beginning 2011. The impact of the new legislation has been considered in determining the Companys tax provision for 2011, including the realizability of its California research and development credit carryforward. The Company has received tax incentives in Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, Singapore and Switzerland. The tax reductions as compared to the local statutory rates favorably impacted earnings per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 by $0.40, $0.34 and $0.31, respectively. The Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, Singapore and Switzerland grants provide the Companys manufacturing operations partial or full exemption from local taxes until the years 2013, 2017, 2024 and 2015, respectively. The Company is engaged in negotiations with the Puerto Rican government for an 34 Table of Contents extension of the Puerto Rico grant. The Singapore grant was extended during 2011 for an additional five years and will now terminate in 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys sources of cash liquidity include cash on hand and cash equivalents, short term investments (bank time deposits with original maturities over three months but less than one year), amounts available under credit facilities and cash from operations. The Company believes that these sources are sufficient to fund the current requirements of working capital, capital expenditures and other financial commitments. The Company further believes that it has the financial flexibility to attract long term capital to fund short term and long term growth objectives. However, no assurances can be given that such long term capital will be available to the Company on favorable terms, or at all. As of December 31, 2011, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held outside the United States were approximately $409.2 million, and have historically been used to fund international operations. The Company believes that cash held in the United States, in addition to amounts available under credit facilities and cash from operations, are sufficient to fund its United States operating requirements. The majority of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held outside the United States relate to undistributed earnings of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries which are considered to be indefinitely reinvested by the Company. Repatriations of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held outside the United States are subject to restrictions in certain jurisdictions and may be subject to withholding and other taxes. The potential tax liability related to any repatriation would be dependent on the facts and circumstances that would exist at the time such repatriation is made and the complexities of the tax laws of the United States and the respective foreign jurisdictions. In July 2011, Edwards Lifesciences entered into a Four Year Credit Agreement ("the Credit Facility") which matures on July 29, 2015. The proceeds of the Credit Facility were used to refinance the Companys previous Five Year Unsecured Revolving Credit Agreement ("the Credit Agreement"). The Credit Facility provides up to an aggregate of $500.0 million in borrowings in multiple currencies. Borrowings generally bear interest at the London interbank offering rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.875%, subject to adjustment for leverage ratio changes as defined in the Credit Facility. The Company also pays a facility fee of 0.125% on the entire $500.0 million facility whether or not drawn. The facility fee is also subject to adjustment for leverage ratio changes. As of December 31, 2011, borrowings of $150.4 million were outstanding under the Credit Facility and have been classified as long term obligations as these borrowings are expected to be refinanced pursuant to the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains various financial and other covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was in violation of certain covenants as a result of the Companys restatement of its 2011 interim consolidated condensed financial statements. See Note 20 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" for further information. Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Company obtained a waiver for this noncompliance from the lenders. In March 2011, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Embrella Cardiovascular, Inc. ("Embrella"), including shares already owned by the Company, for an aggregate purchase price of $42.6 million. The purchase price was funded with cash on hand and borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Embrella was a start up medical device company developing a device for cerebral embolic protection during cardiovascular procedures. In February 2010, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to purchase on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions up to $500.0 million of the Companys common stock. In September 2011, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to purchase on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions up to an additional $500.0 million of the Companys common stock. Stock repurchased under these programs has been used primarily to offset obligations under the Companys employee stock incentive programs and 35 Table of Contents reduce the total shares outstanding. During 2011, the Company repurchased 3.8 million shares at an aggregate cost of $300.1 million and had remaining authority to purchase $597.9 million of the Companys common stock. In addition to shares repurchased under the stock repurchase program, the Company also acquired shares to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees. Net cash flows provided by operating activities of $314.5 million for 2011 increased $63.1 million from 2010 due primarily to higher operating profits and a $49.1 million positive impact from decreased excess tax benefits from stock plans due to credit carryforwards and net operating losses in the United States in 2011 resulting in excess tax benefits that were not realized. This increase was partially offset by higher working capital needs (primarily inventory and accounts receivables). Net cash flows provided by operating activities of $251.4 million for 2010 increased $86.1 million from 2009 due primarily to (1) a $39.0 million cash payment during 2009 to terminate the Companys accounts receivable securitization program in Japan, (2) lower supplier payments in 2010 compared to 2009 and (3) higher operating profits. These increases were partially offset by higher inventory purchases in 2010, primarily related to the transcatheter heart valve product line, and the negative impact from increased excess tax benefits from stock plans due to the appreciation in the Companys stock price and increased exercises (which is offset in financing activities). Net cash used in investing activities of $412.8 million in 2011 consisted primarily of net purchases of short term investments of $293.4 million, a $42.6 million payment associated with the acquisition of Embrella, and capital expenditures of $82.9 million. Net cash used in investing activities of $61.5 million in 2010 consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $61.8 million. Net cash used in financing activities of $135.2 million in 2011 consisted primarily of net purchases of treasury stock of $303.4 million, partially offset by net proceeds from debt of $104.4 million and proceeds from stock plans of $59.5 million. Net cash used in financing activities of $103.9 million in 2010 consisted primarily of purchases of treasury stock of $200.0 million and net payments on debt of $48.4 million, partially offset by the proceeds from stock plans of $92.1 million and the excess tax benefit from stock plans of $55.1 million, which increased compared to the prior year due to the appreciation in the Companys stock price and increased exercises. A summary of all of the Companys contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2011 were as follows (in millions): Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Debt $ 150.4 $ $ $ 150.4 $ Interest on debt 10.4 2.9 5.8 1.7 Operating leases 81.4 14.2 22.1 14.5 30.6 Pension obligations(a) 6.5 6.5 Contractual development obligations(b) 5.2 0.5 4.4 0.3 Capital commitment obligations(c) 2.3 0.6 1.7 Total contractual cash obligations(d) $ 256.2 $ 24.7 $ 34.0 $ 166.9 $ 30.6 (a)The amount included in "Less Than 1 Year" reflects anticipated contributions to the Companys various pension plans. Anticipated contributions beyond one year are not determinable. The total accrued benefit liability for the Companys pension plans recognized as of December 31, 2011 was $41.8 million. This 36 Table of Contents amount is impacted by, among other items, pension expense funding levels, changes in plan demographics and assumptions, and investment return on plan assets. Therefore, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period in which the liability might be paid, and did not include this amount in the contractual obligations table. See Note 11 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" for further information. (b)Contractual development obligations consist primarily of cash that the Company is obligated to pay upon achievement of product development and other milestones. (c)Capital commitment obligations consist primarily of cash that the Company is obligated to pay to its limited partnership and limited liability corporation investees. These investees make equity investments in various development stage biopharmaceutical and medical device companies, and it is not certain if and or when these payments will be made. (d)As of December 31, 2011, the liability for uncertain tax positions including interest was $81.2 million. As a result of on going negotiations of an Advanced Pricing Agreement between Switzerland and the United States, the expiration of statutes of limitations, and the possible settlement of on going audits in several jurisdictions for multiple years throughout the world, the total liability for unrecognized tax benefits may change within the next 12 months. The range of such change could vary, but the amount of such change is not expected to be material. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys results of operations and financial position are determined based upon the application of the Companys accounting policies, as discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Certain of the Companys accounting policies represent a selection among acceptable alternatives under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP"). In evaluating the Companys transactions, management assesses all relevant GAAP and chooses the accounting policy that most accurately reflects the nature of the transactions. The application of accounting policies requires the use of judgment and estimates. As it relates to the Company, estimates and forecasts are required to determine sales returns and reserves, rebate reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, investments in unconsolidated affiliates, the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, the allocation of purchase price for acquisitions, workers compensation liabilities, employee benefit related liabilities, income taxes, impairments of assets, forecasted transactions to be hedged, litigation reserves and contingencies. These matters that are subject to judgments and estimation are inherently uncertain, and different amounts could be reported using different assumptions and estimates. Management uses its best estimates and judgments in determining the appropriate amount to reflect in the consolidated financial statements, using historical experience and all available information. The Company also uses outside experts where appropriate. The Company applies estimation methodologies consistently from year to year. The Company believes the following are the critical accounting policies which could have the most significant effect on the Companys reported results and require subjective or complex judgments by management. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. Revenue is considered realized or realizable and earned upon delivery of the product, provided that an agreement of sale exists, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. In the case of certain products where the Company maintains consigned inventory at customer locations, revenue is recognized at the time the Company is notified that the customer has used the inventory. 37 Table of Contents The Companys sales terms are standard terms within the medical device industry, with title and risk of loss transferring upon delivery to the customer, limited right of return and no unusual provisions or conditions. When the Company recognizes revenue from the sale of its products, an estimate of various sales returns and allowances is recorded which reduces product sales and accounts receivable. These adjustments include estimates for rebates, returns and other sales allowances. These provisions are estimated and recorded at the time of sale based upon historical payment experience, historical relationship to revenues, estimated customer inventory levels, and current contract sales terms with direct and indirect customers. Product returns are not significant because returns are generally not allowed unless the product is damaged at time of receipt. If the historical data and inventory estimates used to calculate these provisions do not approximate future activity, the Companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be impacted. The Companys primary sales adjustment relates to distributor rebates which are given to the Companys United States distributors and represents the difference between the Companys sales price to the distributor (at the Companys distributor "list price") and the negotiated price to be paid by the end customer. This distributor rebate is recorded by the Company as a reduction to sales and a reduction to the distributors accounts receivable at the time of sale to a distributor. The Company validates the distributor rebate accrual quarterly through either a review of the inventory reports obtained from its distributors or an estimate of its distributors inventory. This distributor inventory information is used to verify the estimated liability for future distributor rebate claims based on historical rebates and contract rates. The Company periodically monitors current pricing trends and distributor inventory levels to ensure the credit for future distributor rebates is fairly stated. The Company also offers volume rebates to certain GPOs and customers based upon target sales levels. For volume rebates offered to GPOs, the rebates are recorded as a reduction to sales and an obligation to the GPO. For volume rebates offered to customers, the rebates are recorded as a reduction to sales and accounts receivable. The provision for volume rebates is estimated based on customers contracted rebate programs and historical experience of rebates paid. The Company periodically monitors its customer rebate programs to ensure that the allowance and liability for accrued rebates is fairly stated. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records allowances for doubtful accounts based on customer specific analysis and general matters such as current assessments of past due balances and economic conditions. The credit and economic conditions within Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece, among other members of the European Union, have deteriorated as these countries have experienced slower economic growth and higher debt levels. When evaluating its allowances for doubtful accounts related to these European receivables, the Companys analysis considers a number of factors including evidence of the customers ability to comply with credit terms, economic conditions and procedures implemented by the Company to collect the historical receivables. Additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be required if there is deterioration in past due balances, if economic conditions are less favorable than the Company has anticipated, or for customer specific circumstances, such as financial difficulty. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $19.0 million and $11.6 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Excess and Obsolete Inventory The Company records allowances for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and estimated future demand and market conditions. Additional inventory allowances may be required if future demand or market conditions are less favorable than the Company has estimated. A write down for excess or inactive inventory is recorded for inventory which is obsolete, nearing its expiration date (generally triggered at six months prior to expiration), is damaged or slow moving (defined as quantities in excess of a two year supply). The allowance for excess and obsolete inventory was $12.9 million and $11.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 38 Table of Contents Patent Costs The Company expenses legal costs incurred for patent preparation and applications. The Company capitalizes certain legal costs related to the defense and enforcement of issued patents and trademarks. These capitalized legal costs are amortized over the life of the related patent or trademark. Such legal costs are periodically reviewed for impairment and recoverability. Impairment of Goodwill and Long Lived Assets The Company evaluates the carrying value of goodwill in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. In evaluating goodwill, the Company completes a two step goodwill impairment test. The Company identifies its reporting units and determines the carrying value of each reporting unit by assigning the assets and liabilities, including existing goodwill, to those reporting units. The fair value of the reporting unit is estimated based on the Companys market capitalization and a market revenue multiple. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the Company will perform the second step of the impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill with its carrying value. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company did not perform the second step of the impairment test as the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its respective carrying value. Additionally, management reviews the carrying amounts of other intangible and long lived tangible assets whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment indicators include, among other conditions, cash flow deficits, historic or anticipated declines in revenue or operating profit, and adverse legal or regulatory developments. If it is determined that such indicators are present and the review indicates that the assets will not be fully recoverable, based on undiscounted estimated cash flows over the remaining amortization periods, their carrying values are reduced to estimated fair market value. Estimated fair market value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. For the purposes of identifying and measuring impairment, long lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates Investments in unconsolidated affiliates are long term equity investments in companies that are in various stages of development. Certain of these investments are designated as available for sale. These investments are carried at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders equity as "Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss." Gains or losses on investments sold are based on the specific identification method. Other investments in unconsolidated affiliates are accounted for under the cost or the equity method of accounting, as appropriate. The Company accounts for investments in limited partnerships or limited liability corporations, whereby the Company owns a minimum of 5% of the investees outstanding voting stock, under the equity method of accounting. These investments are recorded at the amount of the Companys investment and adjusted each period for the Companys share of the investees income or loss and dividends paid. As investments accounted for under the cost method do not have readily determinable fair value, the Company only estimates fair value if there are identified events or changes in circumstances that could have a significant adverse effect on the investments fair value. When the fair value of an available for sale investment declines below cost, management uses the following criteria to determine if such a decline should be considered other than temporary and result in a recognized loss: the duration and extent to which the market value has been less than cost; the financial condition and near term prospects of the investee; the reasons for the decline in market value; 39 Table of Contents the investees performance against product development milestones; and the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Income Taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Companys financial statements or tax returns. The Company evaluates quarterly the realizability of its deferred tax assets by assessing its valuation allowance and adjusting the amount, if necessary. The factors used to assess the likelihood of realization are both historical experience and the Companys forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets. Failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable taxing jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in the Companys effective tax rate on future earnings. The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating the Companys uncertain tax positions and determining its provision for income taxes. The Company recognizes the financial statement benefit of a tax position only after determining that a position would more likely than not be sustained based upon its technical merit if challenged by the relevant taxing authority and taken by management to the court of last resort. For tax positions meeting the more likely than not threshold, the amount recognized in the consolidated financial statements is the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the relevant tax authority. The Company strives to resolve open matters with each tax authority at the examination level and could reach agreement with a tax authority at any time. While the Company has accrued for matters it believes are more likely than not to require settlement, the final outcome with a tax authority may result in a tax liability that is more or less than that reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, the Company may later decide to challenge any assessments, if made, and may exercise its right to appeal. The uncertain tax positions are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as events occur that affect potential liabilities for additional taxes, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, proposed assessments by tax authorities, negotiations between tax authorities, identification of new issues and issuance of new legislation, regulations or case law. Management believes that adequate amounts of tax and related penalty and interest have been provided in income tax expense for any adjustments that may result from these uncertain tax positions. As a result of on going negotiations of an Advanced Pricing Agreement, the expiration of statutes of limitations, and the possible settlement of on going audits in several jurisdictions for multiple years throughout the world, the total liability for unrecognized tax benefits may change within the next 12 months. The range of such change could vary, but the amount of such change is not expected to be material. The Company has approximately $29.5 million of California research expenditure tax credits it expects to use in future periods. The credits may be carried forward indefinitely. Based upon anticipated future taxable income over an extended number of years, the Company expects all California research expenditure tax credits to be fully utilized; accordingly, no valuation allowance has been provided. Stock based Compensation The Company measures and recognizes compensation expense for all stock based awards based on estimated fair values. Stock based awards consist of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase subscriptions. The fair value of each option award and employee stock purchase subscription is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option valuation model. The Black Scholes model requires various highly judgmental assumptions, including stock price volatility, risk free interest rate, and expected option term. Stock based compensation expense is recorded net of estimated forfeitures. Judgment is 40 Table of Contents required in estimating the stock awards that will ultimately be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock based compensation expense and the Companys results of operations could be impacted. New Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued an amendment to the accounting guidance on fair value measurements to ensure that United States GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards have common requirements for fair value measurement and disclosures, including a consistent definition of fair value. The guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income. The guidance eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity, and instead requires that all nonowner changes in stockholders equity be presented in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. In September 2011, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance on goodwill to permit an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. The guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2011, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance on disclosures about offsetting assets and liabilities. The guidance requires an entity to disclose both gross and net information about financial instruments and derivative instruments that are eligible for offset in the consolidated balance sheet or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Companys business and financial results are affected by fluctuations in world financial markets, including changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company manages these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments. The Company uses foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option based products to mitigate its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Interest Rate Risk In addition to available cash and cash from operations, the Company uses short and long term debt to finance business activities. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its debt obligations. The Company manages this risk through normal financing and investing activities and is not currently using derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. A hypothetical 10% increase in the Companys weighted average interest rate would have an immaterial effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents For more information related to outstanding debt obligations, see Note 8 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements." Currency Risk The Company is exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. These risks include the translation of local currency balances and results of the Companys non United States subsidiaries into United States dollars, currency gains and losses related to intercompany and third party transactions denominated in currencies other than a locations functional currency, and currency gains and losses associated with intercompany loans. The Companys principal currency exposures relate to the Japanese yen and the Euro. The Companys objective is to minimize the volatility of its exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and the use of derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options contracts. The Company does not hedge its exposure related to its net investments in its non United States subsidiaries. The total notional amounts of the Companys derivative financial instruments entered into for foreign currency management purposes at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $759.5 million and $539.2 million, respectively. A hypothetical 10% increase/decrease in the value of the United States dollar against all hedged currencies would increase/decrease the fair value of these derivative contracts by $50.4 million and $51.7 million, respectively. Any gains or losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions and would not be significant to the Companys financial condition or results of operations. For more information related to outstanding foreign exchange contracts, see Notes 2 and 10 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements." Credit Risk Derivative financial instruments involve credit risk in the event the financial institution counterparty should default. It is the Companys policy to execute such instruments with major financial institutions that the Company believes to be creditworthy. At December 31, 2011, all derivative financial instruments were with bank counterparties assigned investment grade ratings of "A" or better by national rating agencies. The Company further diversifies its derivative financial instruments among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. The Company has not experienced a counterparty default and does not anticipate any non performance by the Companys current derivative counterparties. Concentrations of Risk The Company invests excess cash in bank time deposits and diversifies the concentration of cash amongst different financial institutions. In the normal course of business, Edwards Lifesciences provides credit to customers in the healthcare industry, performs credit evaluations of these customers and maintains allowances for potential credit losses which have historically been adequate compared to actual losses. In 2011, the Company had no customers that represent greater than 10% of its total net sales or accounts receivable, net. The Company continues to do business with foreign governments in certain European countries that have experienced a deterioration in credit and economic conditions. These conditions have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect accounts receivable outstanding in these countries. In addition, the Company may also be impacted by declines in sovereign credit ratings or sovereign defaults in these countries. During 2011, the Company recorded a $12.8 million charge to reflect the increased risk associated with its Southern European receivables, primarily Greece. A significant further decline in sovereign credit ratings or a debt default in Greece, or in other European countries, may decrease the likelihood that the Company 42 Table of Contents will collect these accounts receivable, which could result in a negative impact to the Companys operating results. As of December 31, 2011, the Companys accounts receivables, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts, from customers in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece were $113.7 million. Investment Risk Edwards Lifesciences is exposed to investment risks related to changes in the fair values of its investments. The Company invests in equity instruments of public and private companies. These investments are classified in "Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates" on the consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2011, Edwards Lifesciences had $21.8 million of investments in equity instruments of other companies and had recorded unrealized gains of $1.1 million on these investments in "Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss," net of tax. Should these companies experience a decline in financial condition or fail to meet certain development milestones, the decline in the investments values may be considered other than temporary and impairment charges may be necessary. 43  Table of Contents  
 
