FILE:PG/PG-8K-20030327145102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act Of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) March 27, 2003 THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) OHIO 1-434 31-0411980 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) ONE PROCTER & GAMBLE PLAZA, CINCINNATI, OHIO 45202 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (513) 983-1100 -------------------- ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS. As disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2002, on May 31, 2002, The Procter & Gamble Company (the "Company") completed its spin-off of the Jif and Crisco brands. In addition, effective July 1, 2002, the Company realigned the management of its feminine care business from Baby, Feminine & Family Care to Beauty Care. To reflect these management and business changes, the Company has realigned its internal and external reporting segments. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2003 (July - September 2002), the feminine care business has been included in the Beauty Care segment, and the former Baby, Feminine & Family Care segment has become Baby & Family Care. The former Food & Beverage segment was renamed Snacks & Beverages, reflecting the remaining businesses. As required by FASB Statement No. 131, DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION, prior year segment results have been reclassified to reflect these changes and provide comparable current and historical results. The elements of the former Food & Beverage segment that were spun off or divested, including Jif, Crisco and commercial shortening and oils, are now presented as part of Corporate. This change affects only the presentation of segment results and does not affect the consolidated results of The Procter & Gamble Company. In this form 8-K filing, segment information for the Company reflecting the new structure is presented for the fiscal years 2000 through 2002. The segment results that are affected by the management realignment in the Company's management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2002 is also included. The Company is filing this form 8-K pursuant to the SEC's Regulation FD.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY BY: /S/ SHARON E. ABRAMS ------------------------------ Sharon E. Abrams, Secretary March 27, 2003 Exhibits 99.1 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 99.2 Segment Information

EXHIBIT 99-1 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BABY AND FAMILY CARE - -------------------- Baby and family care delivered strong earnings progress driven by volume growth and extensive cost reductions. Strong volume results across both baby and family care drove a 5% increase in unit volume. Net sales for the year were essentially flat at $9.23 billion. Excluding a 2% negative impact of exchange rates, net sales increased 2%, as commodity driven price declines and pricing adjustments on Luvs and Western European diapers partially offset volume growth. Net earnings were $738 million, up 12% behind an ongoing program of product and overhead cost reductions, including benefits from restructuring activities that have streamlined manufacturing operations. Family care volume grew 7% behind strength in the North America Bounty and Charmin businesses. Net sales increased 1%, as commodity pricing actions largely offset volume growth. Baby care volume increased 4% behind Pampers growth in North America and Western Europe driven by the Baby Stages of Development product launch. Net sales declined 1% as foreign exchange and targeted pricing adjustments more than offset volume growth. In 2001, baby and family care segment unit volume grew 3%, driven by solid results in both family and baby care. Net sales grew 1% to $9.22 billion, compared to $9.12 billion in 2000. Excluding a 4% negative impact of exchange rates, net sales increased 5%. Net earnings decreased 6%, to $658 million, despite progress in family care. BEAUTY CARE - ----------- Beauty care delivered strong results behind the Clairol acquisition, which was completed in the second quarter, delivering unit volume growth of 13% and net sales of $10.72 billion, up 7%. Excluding a 2% negative foreign exchange impact, net sales grew 9%. Excluding the impacts of the Clairol acquisition, fiscal year unit volume grew 2%, primarily behind strength in the base hair care business and solid growth in fine fragrances and cosmetics. Net earnings were $1.61 billion, up 18%, driven by marketing support efficiencies behind growing businesses and a continued focus on cost reductions. The Clairol integration went according to plan during the year with North America, the largest region, being completed in May. The Clairol acquisition provides a strong presence in the high-margin colorants business and rounds out the Company's hair care offerings. Feminine care volume declined 3%, stabilizing in the second half, and net sales declined 5%. Nevertheless, net earnings improved mainly due to cost efficiencies. In 2001, beauty care unit volume declined 1%. Net sales were $10.03 billion, down 3%, versus $10.31 billion in 2000. Excluding a 4% impact of unfavorable exchange rates, primarily in Western Europe and Asia, net sales grew 1%. Net earnings were $1.36 billion, an 8% improvement behind the successful expansion of high-performance, premium-priced products.
SNACKS & BEVERAGES - ------------------ Snacks and beverages delivered solid earnings growth despite top-line challenges. Unit volume declined 2%. Volume declines, commodity-related pricing actions in coffee and negative foreign exchange impacts drove a 6% decrease in net sales, to $3.25 billion. Net earnings grew 25%, to $303 million, as broad-based cost reductions more than offset declining volumes. In 2001, snacks and beverages unit volume declined 10%. Unit volume was negatively affected by reduced trade merchandising and the impact of snacks pricing actions in North America and Western Europe. Net sales were $3.46 billion, down 10%. Excluding a 2% impact of unfavorable exchange rates, net sales declined 8%. Net earnings were $242 million, down 13% versus 2000. CORPORATE - --------- The corporate segment includes both operating and non-operating elements such as financing and investing activities, certain benefit costs, restructuring charges, segment eliminations and other general corporate items. Corporate includes adjustments from management reporting conventions to conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These primarily affect the treatment of entities over which the Company exerts significant influence but does not control, and income taxes, which are reflected in the business segments using estimated local statutory tax rates. The results for the elements of the former food and beverage segment that have been divested or spun-off (i.e., Jif, Crisco and commercial shortening and oils) are now reflected in Corporate. The Jif and Crisco spin-off occurred in the fourth quarter of 2002 and the divestiture of the commercial shortening and oils business occurred in the third quarter of 2001. Corporate results reflect a decrease in one-time gains from the Company's non-strategic divestiture program. Moreover, reduced corporate hedging gains versus 2001 were partially offset by decreased restructuring costs, lower interest expense and the discontinuation of amortizing goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles. In 2001, corporate results reflect increased restructuring costs, higher benefit costs and certain tax impacts not reflected in the businesses. These were partially offset by one-time gains from the Company's divestiture program, reduced overhead spending and corporate hedging gains.

EXHIBIT 99-2 SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company is organized by product-based global business units. The segments manufacture and market products as follows: - - Fabric and home care includes laundry, fabric enhancers, dish care and hard surface cleaners. - - Baby and family care includes diapers, wipes, tissues and towels. - - Beauty care includes cosmetics, hair care, deodorants, fine fragrances, tampons, pads and liners. - - Health care includes personal health care, oral care, pharmaceuticals and pet health and nutrition. - - Snacks and beverages includes coffee, snacks, commercial services and juice The corporate segment includes both operating and non-operating elements such as financing and investing activities, intangible asset amortization, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset amortization prior to SFAS No. 142 adoption on July 1, 2001, certain employee benefit costs, charges related to restructuring, segment eliminations and other general corporate items. The segment eliminations adjust management reporting principles to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and primarily affect the treatment of unconsolidated investees and income taxes, which are reflected in the business segments using estimated local statutory tax rates. Corporate assets primarily include cash, investment securities and goodwill. The results for the elements of the former food and beverage segment that have been divested or spun-off (i.e., Jif, Crisco and commercial shortening and oils) are reflected in Corporate.
The segment results as previously reported are as follows:


