FILE:PG/PG-8K-20041022162801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
     The information included in this Form 8-K affects the disclosure of segment results only and in no way revises or restates the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Procter & Gamble Company and consolidated subsidiaries.
     As disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company made the following management and business changes:
     (1) Effective July 1, 2004, the Company realigned some of its business units and associated management responsibilities. Effective July 1, 2004, the Company realigned to three global business units: Beauty Care; Health, Baby and Family Care; and Household Care, which will include the Fabric and Home Care business and the Snacks and Beverages business. Snacks and Beverages is renamed Snacks and Coffee to reflect the remaining businesses.
     (2) In August 2004, the Company completed the divestiture of its Juice business. Historical results of the Juice business will be included in Corporate to provide segment results on a comparable basis.
     In addition to these management and business changes, the Company made adjustments to the basis of measurement for segment performance effective July 1, 2004. These adjustments reflect recent changes in the measures used to evaluate the performance of senior management, consistent with the Company's increased acquisition and licensing activity. The most significant of these adjustments is the amortization of identifiable intangible assets with determinable lives, which will now be included in segment results rather than held in Corporate. The amortization of identifiable intangible assets for the three years ended June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $165 million, $100 million and $97 million, respectively. Other changes made to the basis of measurement of segment performance are the allocation methodologies of certain overhead items managed by the Company's Global Business Services organization. Certain other immaterial changes were made to cost allocations from Corporate to the business segments.
     As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, consolidated financial statements issued by the Company in the future will reflect these modifications, including reclassification of all comparative prior period segment information. The attached exhibits provide information about segment performance taking into account the management, business and reclassification changes as they relate to prior periods. Exhibits 99-1 and 99-2 provide a summary of segment results, including interim periods, for fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. Exhibit 99-3 contains parts I and II of Procter & Gamble's Form 10-K for fiscal year 2004. Exhibits 99-4 and 99-5 contain the complete Management's Discussion and Analysis and consolidated financial statements, respectively, for the recently completed fiscal year for which the segment information has been reclassified to conform to the new segment presentation. These financial statements, conformed for the changes, will become the historical financial statements of The Procter & Gamble Company and consolidated subsidiaries for currently open and future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
Exhibits:

 
Exhibit 99-1 Fiscal Year 2004 Business Segment Information

 
Exhibit 99-2 Fiscal Year 2003 Business Segment Information

 
Exhibit 99-3
PART I
Item 1. Business.
     Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis, which appears on pages 29-43; Note 3, Acquisitions and Spin-Off, which appears on pages 52-54; Note 5, Supplemental Financial Information, which appears on page 55; and Note 12, Segment Information, which appears on pages 65-66 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. Certain portions of Management's Discussion and Analysis were revised to conform to organizational and segment measurement changes and included in revised form as Exhibit 99-4 of Form 8-K filed on October 22, 2004. Certain portions of Note 12, Segment Information, were revised to conform to organizational and segment measurement changes and included in revised form as Exhibit 99-5 of Form 8-K filed on October 22, 2004.
     The Procter & Gamble Company is focused on providing branded products of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world's consumers. The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1905, having been built from a business founded in 1837 by William Procter and James Gamble. Today, we market over 300 branded products in more than 160 countries. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms the "Company," "we," "our" or "us" as used herein refers to The Procter & Gamble Company (the registrant) and its subsidiaries.
     The Company manages its business in three reportable segments: Beauty Care; Health, Baby and Family Care; and Household Care. None of these segments is highly seasonal. Many of the factors necessary for an understanding of these three segments are similar. Operating margins of the individual segments vary slightly due to nature of the materials and processes used to manufacture the products, the capital intensity of the businesses and differences in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales. Net sales growth by segment is also expected to vary slightly due to the underlying growth of the markets of each segments' products. For example, we expect the Beauty Care and Health Care businesses to provide a disproportionate percentage of overall Company net sales growth, as the market for these products is expected to grow at a higher rate than the remaining businesses.
     The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive. The products of the Company's business segments compete with products of many large and small companies, including well-known global competitors. We market our products with advertising, promotions and other vehicles to build awareness of our brands in conjunction with an extensive sales force. We believe this combination provides the most efficient method of marketing for these types of products. Product quality, performance, value and packaging are also important competitive factors.
     Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
     The Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K are filed electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains these reports at: http://www.sec.gov.The reports can also be accessed through links from the Company's website at: www.pg.com/investors/sectionmain.jhtml.
     Copies are also available, without charge, by contacting The Procter & Gamble Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572.
 
Table of Contents
Narrative Description of Business
     Business Model. Our business model relies on the continued growth and success of existing brands and products and the creation of new products. The markets and industry segments in which we offer our products are highly competitive. We work collaboratively with our customers to improve the in-store presence of our products and win the "first moment of truth"  when a consumer is shopping in the store. We must also win the "second moment of truth"  when a consumer uses the product, evaluates how well it met his or her expectations and whether it was a good value. We believe we must continue to provide new, innovative products and branding to the consumer in order to grow our business. Basic research and product development activities, designed to enable sustained organic growth, continued to carry a high priority during the past fiscal year. While many of the benefits from these efforts will not be realized until future years, the Company believes these activities demonstrate its commitment to future growth.
     Key Product Categories. We currently have three product categories that each account for 10% or more of consolidated net sales. The laundry category constituted approximately 18% of net sales for fiscal year 2004, compared to 19% in 2003 and 19% in 2002. The diaper category represents approximately 11% of consolidated sales in 2004, compared to 12% in 2003 and 2002. The retail hair care category accounted for approximately 11% of fiscal year 2004 net sales, up from just over 9% in 2003 and 2002. The increase in hair care category sales is due, in part, to the addition of Wella AG (Wella).
     Key Customers. Our customers include mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores and drug stores. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 17% of our total revenue, compared to 18% in 2003 and 17% in 2002. No other customer represents more than 10% of our net sales. Our top ten customers account for approximately 33% of total unit volume, compared to 33% in 2003 and 35% in 2002. The nature of our business results in no material backlog orders or contracts with the government. We believe our practices related to working capital items for customers and suppliers are consistent with the industry segments in which we compete.
     Sources and Availability of Materials. Almost all of the raw and packaging materials used by the Company are purchased from others, some of whom are single-source suppliers. Some raw materials, primarily chemicals, are produced by the Company for further use in the manufacturing process. In addition, fuel and natural gas are important commodities used in our plants and in the trucks used to deliver our products to customers. The prices we pay for materials and other commodities are subject to fluctuation. When prices for these items change, we may or may not pass on the change to our customers depending on the magnitude and expected duration of the change. We have, however, recently announced price increases in some categories, including tissue, coffee and pet health and nutrition, to recover increases in commodity costs. The Company purchases and produces a substantial variety of raw and packaging materials, no one of which is material to the Company's business taken as a whole.
     Trademarks and Patents. We own or have licenses under patents and registered trademarks which are used in connection with our business in all segments. Some of these patents or licenses cover significant product formulation and processing of the Company's products. The trademarks of all major products in each segment are registered. In part, the
 
Table of Contents
Company's success can be attributed to the existence and continued protection of these trademarks, patents and licenses.
     Expenditures for Environmental Compliance. Expenditures for compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations are fairly consistent from year to year and are not material to the Company. No material change is expected in fiscal year 2005.
     Employees. The Company has approximately 110,000 employees. The increase of approximately 12,000 employees versus the prior year is primarily related to the addition of Wella.
Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations
     Net sales in the United States account for approximately 46% of total net sales. No other individual country had net sales exceeding 10% of total net sales. Operations outside the United States are generally characterized by the same conditions discussed in the description of the business above and may also be affected by additional factors including changing currency values, different rates of inflation, economic growth and political and economic uncertainties and disruptions. Company sales by geography for the fiscal years ended June 30 were as follows:
Developing markets include Latin America, Central & Eastern Europe, China, ASEAN, Australasia, India, the Middle East and Africa.
Net sales and assets in the United States and internationally were as follows (in millions):
Development of the Business
     The discussion below provides insight to the general development of our business, including the material acquisitions and disposition of assets over the past five years.
     Wella. In March 2003, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire a controlling interest in Wella from the majority shareholders. In September 2003, we completed this purchase of the shares of Wella for EUR 3.16 billion (approximately $3.42 billion based on exchange rates on that date). Additionally, in September 2003, we purchased shares secured through a tender offer to remaining shareholders for EUR 1.49 billion (approximately $1.67
 
Table of Contents
billion based on exchange rates on that date). As a result of these purchases, the Company acquired approximately 81% of the outstanding Wella shares (99% of the voting class shares and 45% of the preference shares).
     In June 2004, the Company and Wella entered into a Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement (the Domination Agreement). Under the Domination Agreement, we are entitled to exercise full operating control and receive 100% of the future earnings of Wella. As consideration for the Domination Agreement, we will pay the holders of the remaining outstanding shares of Wella a guaranteed annual dividend payment. Alternatively, the remaining Wella shareholders may elect to tender their shares to the Company for an agreed price. The fair value of the total guaranteed annual dividend payments is $1.11 billion, which is the approximate cost if all remaining shares were tendered.
     The acquisition of Wella was financed by a mixture of available cash balances and debt. Wella is a leading beauty care company selling its products in more than 150 countries, focused on professional hair care, retail hair care and cosmetics and fragrances.
     Hutchison. In June 2004, we purchased the remaining 20% stake of our China venture from our partner, Hutchison Whampoa China Ltd. (Hutchison), giving the Company full ownership of our operations in China. The net purchase price was $1.85 billion, which is the purchase price of $2.00 billion net of minority interest and certain obligations that were eliminated as a result of the transaction. The acquisition was funded by debt.
     Jif/Crisco. During May 2002, we completed the spin-off of the Jif peanut butter and Crisco shortening brands to the Company's shareholders and their subsequent merger into The J.M. Smucker Company.
     Clairol. In November 2001, we completed the acquisition of the Clairol business from The Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
     Restructuring Program. In 1999, the Company announced its intention to transition from its previous geographic-based structure to a product-based global business unit structure. Concurrent with that change, we initiated a multi-year restructuring program, a discussion of which is incorporated herein by reference to Note 2, Restructuring Program, which appears on page 52 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004.
Item 2. Properties.
     In the United States, the Company owns and operates 37 manufacturing facilities located in 21 different states. In addition, the Company owns and operates 99 manufacturing facilities in 42 other countries. Many of the domestic and international facilities produce products for multiple business segments. Beauty Care products are produced at 64 of these locations; Health, Baby and Family Care products at 49; and Household Care products at 52. Management believes that the Company's production facilities are adequate to support the business efficiently and that the properties and equipment have been well maintained. Subsequent to the completion of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, the Company completed the divestiture of its Juice business, which included four manufacturing facilities in the Household Care segment.
 
Table of Contents
Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
     The Company is involved in clean-up efforts at off-site Superfund locations, many of which are in the preliminary stages of investigation. The amount accrued at the end of June 30, 2004, representing the Company's probable future costs that can be reasonably estimated, was $8 million.
     The Company is also involved in certain other environmental proceedings. No such proceeding is expected to result in material monetary or other sanctions being imposed by any governmental entity, or in other material liabilities. In 2003 and thereafter, The Folger Coffee Company, a subsidiary of the Company, voluntarily contacted the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) concerning compliance with certain air emission permit requirements at its New Orleans coffee processing plant. As a result of these self-disclosures, the subsidiary expects to receive from the LDEQ an Administrative Order on Consent and anticipates negotiating an agreed penalty with the agency to resolve these issues. No judicial proceeding is pending. The Company's liability is estimated not to exceed $260,000.
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
     Not applicable.
 
Table of Contents
Executive Officers of the Registrant
All of the Executive Officers named above have been employed by the Company for more than five years.
 
Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
     Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Shareholder Information, which appears on page 70 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, and Part III, Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
 
     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 50-52; Note 12, Segment Information, which appears on pages 65-66; and Financial Summary, which appears on page 67 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. Certain portions of Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 12, Segment Information, were revised to conform to organizational and segment measurement changes and included in revised form as Exhibit 99-5 of Form 8-K filed on October 22, 2004.
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis, which appears on pages 29-43; Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 50-52; Note 2, Restructuring Program, which appears on page 52; Note 3, Acquisitions and Spin-Off, which appears on pages 52-54; Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, which appears on page 64; and Note 12, Segment Information, which appears on pages 65-66 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. Certain portions of Management's Discussion and Analysis were revised to conform to organizational and segment measurement changes and included in revised form as Exhibit 99-4 of Form 8-K filed on October 22, 2004. Certain portions of Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 12, Segment Information, were revised to conform to organizational and segment measurement changes and included in revised form as Exhibit 99-5 of Form 8-K filed on October 22, 2004.
     The Company has made certain forward-looking statements in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 and in other contexts relating to volume and net sales growth, increases in market shares, financial goals and cost reduction, among others.
     These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and estimates regarding competitive activity, pricing, product introductions, economic conditions, customer and consumer trends, technological innovation, currency movements, governmental action and the development of certain markets available at the time the statements are made. Among the key factors that could impact results and must be managed by the Company are:
     If the Company's assumptions and estimates are incorrect or do not come to fruition, or if the Company does not achieve all of these key factors, then our actual results might differ materially from the forward-looking statements made herein.
 
Table of Contents
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled Other Information, which appears on pages 42-43, and Note 7, Risk Management Activities, which appears on pages 56-57 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     The financial statements and supplementary data are incorporated by reference to pages 44-67 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. Certain portions of Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Note 4, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, and Note 12, Segment Information, were revised to conform to organizational and segment measurement changes and included in revised form as Exhibit 99-5 of Form 8-K filed on October 22, 2004.
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
     Not applicable.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.
     The Company's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive, A.G. Lafley, and the Company's Chief Financial Officer, Clayton C. Daley, Jr., have evaluated the Company's internal control and disclosure control systems as of the end of the period covered by this report.
     Messrs. Lafley and Daley have concluded that the Company's disclosure control systems are functioning effectively to provide reasonable assurance that the Company can meet its disclosure obligations. The Company's disclosure control system is based upon a global chain of financial, staff and general business reporting lines that converge in the worldwide headquarters of the Company in Cincinnati, Ohio. The reporting process is designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits with the Commission is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms. Consistent with SEC suggestion, the Company has formed a Disclosure Committee consisting of key Company personnel designed to review the accuracy and completeness of all disclosures made by the Company.
     In connection with the evaluation described above, no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting occurred during the Company's fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The purpose of this discussion is to provide an understanding of our financial results and condition by focusing on changes in certain key items from year to year. Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) starts with an overview of the Company, followed by a review of results of operations and financial condition. Lastly, we provide insight to our significant accounting policies and estimates, and some other information you may find useful.
Throughout MD&A, we refer to several measures used by management to evaluate performance including unit volume growth, net outside sales and after-tax profit. We also refer to organic sales growth (net sales growth excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange), free cash flow and free cash flow productivity, which are not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The explanation of these non-GAAP measures at the end of MD&A provides more details. Management also uses certain market share estimates to evaluate our performance relative to competition  although there are limitations on the availability and comparability of this information. References to market share in MD&A are based on a combination of vendor-reported consumption and market size data, as well as internal estimates.
OVERVIEW
Our business is focused on providing branded products of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world's consumers. We believe this will lead to leadership sales, profits and value creation, allowing employees, shareholders and the communities in which we operate to prosper.
Procter & Gamble markets over 300 branded products in more than 160 countries. Our products are sold primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores and drug stores. We compete in multiple product categories and have three reportable segments: Beauty Care; Health, Baby and Family Care; and Household Care  and we manage the business and report our results on this basis. We have operations in over 80 countries through our Market Development Organization, which leads country business teams to build our brands in local markets and is organized along seven geographic areas: North America, Western Europe, Northeast Asia, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa, Greater China and ASEAN/Australasia/India.
The following charts provide the percentage of net sales and net earnings by
 
business for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. These exclude information for Corporate, since it is not meaningful. For more information, please refer to the section on Corporate results in the Segment Results discussion and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Effective July 1, 2004 we realigned some of our business units and management responsibilities. We realigned to three global business units: Beauty Care was retained; Health, Baby and Family Care were combined to one reportable segment; and Household Care was formed by the realignment of the Fabric and Home Care business and the Snacks and Coffee business into a single unit. The Company has chosen to provide supplemental data on the Fabric and Home Care, Snacks and Coffee, Health Care and Baby and Family Care businesses.
 
2004 Net Sales by Business Segment
{PIE CHART}
2004 Net Earnings by Business Segment
{PIE CHART}
We completed the divestiture of the Juice business in August 2004. The historical results of the Juice business are reflected in Corporate to provide segment results on a comparable basis.
Strategic Focus
We are focused on strategies that we believe are right for the long-term health of the Company and that will increase returns for our shareholders.
Our long-term financial targets include:
 
operating cash flow less capital expenditures divided by net earnings).
In order to achieve these targets, we have focused Procter & Gamble's core strengths of branding, innovation, go-to-market capability and scale against the following growth areas:
Sustainability
To sustain consistent and reliable sales and earnings growth in line with long-term financial targets, we have identified four key enablers:
 
do not have a major market presence. In addition, we are investing in innovation and capability to meet the needs of lower-income consumers, who may find our products unaffordable for daily use.
Summary of 2004 Results
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, our sales, earnings and free cash flow grew above our long-term targets.
Market Overview and Challenges
Our market environment is highly competitive, with both global and local competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against branded products, as well as retailer and private-label brands. Additionally, many of the product segments in which we compete are differentiated by price (referred to as premium, mid-tier and value-tier products). Generally speaking, we compete with premium and mid-tier products and are well positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate  often holding a leadership or significant share position.
 
We compete in several categories of the Beauty Care market including Retail and Professional Hair Care, Skin Care, Feminine Care, Cosmetics, Fine Fragrances and Personal Cleansing. The Beauty Care markets in which we compete comprise approximately $170 billion in global sales, resulting in our having an overall share position of about 10%. Hair Care, one of our core businesses, is the market leader with approximately a 20% share of the global market. We are also the global share leader in the Feminine Care category, another core business, with approximately a 35% share of the market. Billion-dollar brands in Beauty Care include Pantene, Wella, Olay, Always and Head & Shoulders.
In Health, Baby and Family Care, the Health Care business competes in several distinct product categories including Oral Care, Pharmaceuticals, Personal Health Care and Respiratory Medications and Pet Health and Nutrition. In Oral Care, there are four global competitors in the market, of which we have the number two share position. Our Pharmaceuticals business has almost 30% of the global bisphosphonates market for the treatment of osteoporosis under the Actonel brand. Actonel, along with Crest and Iams, each have annual sales over one billion dollars. Baby and Family Care competes primarily in the Diapers, Baby Wipes, Bath Tissue and Kitchen Towel categories. Baby Care is one of our core businesses with a global share of approximately 36% of the market behind the strength of Pampers, a $5 billion-dollar brand. The markets in which we compete generally include two to three global companies, as well as local competitors and retailer brands. Family Care is predominantly a North American business with the Bounty and Charmin brands, each with annual sales over one billion dollars.
In Household Care, the Fabric and Home Care business operates in a global market containing numerous brands in each geography. We generally have the number one or number two share position in the markets in which we compete, with particular strength in North America and Western Europe. Fabric Care is one of our core businesses and we are the global market leader with approximately a 31% share. Home Care, a fast growing business, competes in the dish care, surface care and air care product categories. Three of our billion-dollar brands are part of the Fabric and Home Care business: Tide, Ariel and Downy.
 
In Snacks and Coffee, we compete primarily in two industry categories: Salted Snacks and Coffee. In Salted Snacks, we compete against both global and local companies. One global company dominates the category. In Coffee, we hold a leadership position of the brands sold predominantly through grocery, mass merchandise and club membership stores in the United States (U.S.). Two of our billion-dollar brands are in Snacks and Coffee  Pringles and Folgers.
Forward-Looking Statements
We discuss expectations regarding our future performance and future events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and long-term objectives, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All statements, except for historical and present factual information, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Security Litigation Reform Act, and are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data and our business plans. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could be significantly different from our expectations.
Ability to Achieve Business Plans. We are a consumer products company and rely on continued demand for our products. To achieve our business plans, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our consumers and customers. Our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation (with respect to both products and operations) and effective sales, advertising and marketing programs in an increasingly fragmented media environment. Our ability to innovate and execute in these areas will determine the extent to which we are able to grow existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity, especially with respect to the product categories and geographic markets (including developing markets) in which we have chosen to focus. There continues to be competitive product and pricing pressures in the environments in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. We must manage each of these, as well as maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, in order to effectively compete and achieve our business plans. Since our long-term goals include a growth component tied to acquisitions, we must manage and integrate key acquisitions, including the Wella acquisition.
Cost Pressures. Our costs are not fixed but fluctuate, particularly due to currency and interest rate fluctuations and the cost of labor and raw materials. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, sourcing decisions and certain hedging transactions. In the manufacturing and general overhead areas, we need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including sole supplier and sole plant arrangements, and successfully implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans, including our outsourcing projects.
Global Economic Conditions. Economic changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption, inflation, deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our significant geographical markets, as well as any political or economic disruption due to terrorist activities.
Regulatory Environment. Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations, including changes in laws that affect our products, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws and environmental laws, may alter the environment in which we do business. Accordingly, our ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters and to
 
resolve pending matters within current estimates may impact our results.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Volume and Net Sales
Unit volume for the 2004 fiscal year increased 17%, with all business segments and geographic regions achieving unit volume growth. Unit volume growth was led by Beauty Care, up 37%, and Health Care, up 18%. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily Wella, unit volume for the Company increased 10%. This exceeded prior year results due to the volume growth on our largest brands, double-digit gains from developing markets, incremental volume from product initiatives and an overall increase in our market share position.
 
Sales reached a record level of $51.41 billion in 2004, an increase of 19%. Organic sales increased 8%, well above our long-term target. Net sales increased behind volume growth, including the addition of Wella, and a positive foreign exchange impact of 4% due primarily to the strengthening of the Euro, British pound and Canadian dollar. Product mix reduced sales growth by 1%, reflecting higher growth in developing markets, including Greater China and Latin America, which generally have an average unit sales price lower than the Company average. Pricing adjustments reduced sales growth by 1% as we sharpened Family Care and Coffee category pricing to remain competitive on shelf. We also took pricing actions to improve consumer value and stimulate growth in selected product categories, including Fabric Care and Feminine Care.
{BAR CHART}
Net Sales (in billions of dollars)
2004 Net Sales by Geography
{PIE CHART}
Net sales in 2003 were $43.38 billion, exceeding 2002 sales by $3.14 billion, or 8%. Volume growth of 8% was broad-based, with particular strength in the Fabric and Home Care, Beauty Care and Health Care businesses. Net sales included a favorable foreign exchange impact of 2%, as the strength of the Euro was partially offset by weakness in certain Latin American currencies. The foreign exchange impact was offset by pricing of 2% to deliver consistent consumer value, stimulate growth and remain competitive in key categories, including Diapers, Tissue, Hair Care, Feminine Care, Teeth Whitening and Coffee.
Operating Costs
Gross margin in 2004 was 51.2%, an increase of 220 basis points versus the previous year. Charges for the restructuring program that was substantially completed in 2003 accounted for 80 basis points of the improvement. Of the remaining gross margin expansion, approximately 90 basis points was driven by the scale benefit of increased volume and 40 basis points was due to the addition of Wella, which has a higher gross margin than the balance of the Company. Supply chain savings and favorable product mix benefits were offset by the impact of higher commodity costs and pricing actions. In 2003, gross margin was 49.0% which was an improvement of 120 basis points versus 2002. Lower restructuring program charges accounted for 40 basis points of the improvement, with the remainder due to lower material costs and the benefits of our supply chain savings programs. Before-tax restructuring program charges included in cost of products sold were $381 million in 2003 and $508 million in 2002.
 
{BAR CHART}
Gross Margin Progress (% of sales)
 
Selling, General and Administrative expense (SG&A) in 2004 was 32.1% of net sales, an increase of 120 basis points compared to the previous year. The majority of the basis point increase is due to Wella, reflecting a higher ratio of SG&A expense to net sales than the base business. Restructuring program charges in the base period, that accounted for an improvement of 90 basis points, were more than offset by increases in marketing spending. Marketing investments were made behind product launches including Prilosec OTC, Crest Whitestrips Premium and the expansion of Olay Regenerist, as well as continued support for the base business. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of net sales in 2003 versus 2002 was driven by lower restructuring program charges which more than offset additional marketing investments behind new product launches and expansions of existing brands, including Tide with Bleach, Swiffer Duster, Crest Whitestrips and Olay Regenerist. SG&A included before-tax restructuring program charges of $374 million in 2003 and $519 million in 2002.
{BAR CHART}
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
(% of sales)
Non-Operating Items
Non-operating items include interest expense, divestiture gains and losses, as well as interest and investment income.
Interest expense increased $68 million to $629 million in 2004, primarily due to additional debt to support the acquisition of Wella. Interest expense was $561 million in 2003 and $603 million in 2002. The decline in interest expense in 2003 versus 2002 was driven by lower debt balances and interest rates. Going forward, we expect interest expense to increase, reflecting both debt levels and rates, as well as the interest associated with the guaranteed dividend payment to Wella minority shareholders.
Other non-operating income was $152 million in 2004 compared to $238 million in 2003 and $308 million in 2002. Over the three year period, non-operating income declined primarily due to lower gains from divestitures. During the restructuring program, we divested non-strategic brands. As this activity has declined, other non-operating income has trended lower. Next fiscal year, non-operating income may increase, reflecting the divestiture of the Juice business in August 2004.
The effective tax rate for 2004 declined 40 basis points driven primarily by the country mix impact of foreign operations, as earnings increased disproportionately in countries with lower overall tax rates. The country mix impacts of foreign operations reduced the Company's effective tax rate to a larger degree in 2004 and 2003 than in 2002. The tax rate is expected to decline again in 2005, absent any legislative changes that affect current plans.
Net Earnings
Net earnings in 2004 increased 25% over the prior year. Earnings growth was primarily driven by increased volume and the completion of the Company's restructuring program. Improvements to earnings from gross margin expansion were partially offset by increased marketing spending to support product initiatives and base business growth. The acquisition of Wella had no material impact on earnings.
 
Prior year results include $538 million of after-tax charges related to our restructuring program, which represents approximately 10 percentage points of the earnings growth. These charges covered enrollment reductions, manufacturing consolidations and portfolio choices to scale back or discontinue under-performing businesses and initiatives. The restructuring program was substantially completed in 2003. Beginning this year, we are continuing to take the necessary, on-going actions to maintain a competitive cost structure, but such activities are part of normal operations.
In 2003, net earnings increased 19% compared to 2002, representing a 120 basis point increase in earnings margin. Increased earnings were driven by volume growth, the shift in mix to higher profit products in the Health Care and Beauty Care businesses, lower restructuring program costs and improved gross margin. After-tax restructuring program charges were down $168 million compared to total charges of $706 million in 2002.
 
Diluted net earnings per share were $2.32, an increase of 25%, and above our long-term target. Diluted net earnings per share were $1.85 in 2003 and $1.54 in 2002, including restructuring program impacts of $0.19 and $0.26 per share, respectively.
{BAR CHART}
DILUTED NET EARNINGS (Per common share)
Net Earnings Margins
The progressive increase in net earnings margin to 12.6% reflects the scale benefits from higher volume and the completion of our restructuring program, as well as improvements due to cost savings and the shift to businesses with a higher margin than the Company average.
SEGMENT RESULTS
Results for the three reportable segments reflect information on the same basis we use for internal management reporting and performance evaluation. These segment results exclude certain costs included in the Consolidated Financial Statements (e.g., interest expense, other financing costs, investing activities and certain restructuring costs), which are reported in Corporate. The Company has chosen to provide supplemental data on the Fabric and Home Care, Snacks and Coffee, Health Care and Baby and Family Care businesses.
As described in Note 12 of the financial statements, we have investments in certain companies where we do not control the financial and operating decisions and, therefore, do not consolidate them ("unconsolidated entities"). Because these investments are managed as integral parts of the Company's business units, they are accounted for as if they were consolidated subsidiaries for management and segment purposes.
This means we recognize 100% of each income statement component to before-tax earnings and eliminate the minority interest to determine segment after-tax earnings. Included in Corporate are entries to eliminate the individual revenue and expense line items, adjusting the method of accounting to the equity method as required by U.S. GAAP.
 
 
Beauty Care
Beauty Care unit volume increased 37%. Excluding the impact of the Wella acquisition, unit volume increased 10% behind broad-based growth in the Hair Care, Personal Beauty Care and Feminine Care businesses. Global Hair Care volume increased double-digits, despite low single-digit growth in North America, with particular progress on the Head & Shoulders, Pantene, Herbal Essences and Rejoice brands. In Feminine Care, double-digit volume growth was driven by Always/Alldays, Tampax Pearl in the U.S. and Naturella in Latin America. In Personal Beauty Care, Olay and SK-II delivered double-digit volume growth, as did the Fine Fragrances business. Net sales increased 40% to $17.12 billion. Sales growth includes a positive foreign exchange impact of 4%, partially offset by negative pricing of 1%. Pricing includes actions to support the Hair Care, Colorants and Cosmetics businesses in North America and the Feminine Care business in Western Europe. Overall Beauty Care market share increased, as sales growth out-paced market growth in key categories including Skin Care, Feminine Care and Hair Care products.
Net earnings increased 20% to $2.33 billion. Volume benefits, including the addition of Wella, and lower material costs were partially offset by marketing investments to support product initiatives and the base business. Earnings margin decreased due to the impact of the higher SG&A expense ratio for Wella. The Wella acquisition was accretive to Beauty Care earnings and had no material impact on Company earnings after including the impacts of interest expense, which is included in Corporate. Going forward, we will continue to make progress on collaboration plans designed to deliver synergies and margin progress. Some of these actions will result in additional one-time charges next year largely to be reflected in Corporate as part of the Company's ongoing effort to maintain a competitive cost structure. Excluding these impacts, Wella is expected to be accretive to the Beauty Care segment and about neutral to the Company in 2005.
In 2003, unit volume grew 15%. Excluding the impacts of the Clairol acquisition, unit volume increased 8% led by growth in Hair Care. Net sales grew 14% to $12.22 billion, as volume increases and a positive 3% impact from foreign exchange were partially offset by a negative 2% impact from pricing and 2% from mix. Pricing was driven by price reductions taken to expand our portfolio of Hair Care brands to consumers that shop within the category's lower-priced, mid-tier brands. The mix impact was driven by the increased sales of Clairol brands, which carry lower revenue per unit than the Company's base Hair Care brands. Net earnings grew 23% to $1.94 billion. Approximately half of this increase was driven by volume, with the remainder driven by reductions in manufacturing costs through restructuring, base savings programs and lower material costs. Lower overhead spending due, in part, to the Clairol integration, was offset by investments in marketing. In 2002, Beauty Care net sales were $10.72 billion and net earnings were $1.57 billion.
Health, Baby and Family Care
 
Health Care. Health Care unit volume increased 18%. All categories grew volume, with double-digit gains in the Pharmaceutical, Personal Health Care and Oral Care businesses, as well as solid growth in Pet Health and Nutrition. Volume was driven by initiatives, including the successful launch of Prilosec OTC and the continued expansion of Actonel. Developing markets also delivered double-digit volume gains, particularly in China behind Crest. Net sales increased 21% to $6.99 billion. Foreign exchange increased sales 3%.
Health Care net earnings increased 36% to $925 million. Earnings growth was primarily driven by sales growth behind initiatives and margin expansion due to product mix, manufacturing cost savings and lower overhead spending as a percentage of sales. Product mix expanded margin as Pharmaceuticals, which has a higher margin than the balance of the business, made up a larger percentage of the business' sales. Mix-driven margin expansion was negatively impacted by increased marketing spending behind the strong initiative program and a growing base business. Each category delivered double-digit earnings growth.
In 2003, Health Care unit volume increased 18% led by Oral Care and Pharmaceuticals. Net sales for the year were $5.80 billion, an increase of 16% as compared to $4.98 billion in 2002. A favorable foreign exchange impact of 2% was more than offset by a negative pricing impact of 2%, primarily driven by lower pricing on Crest Whitestrips in response to a competitive entry, and a negative mix impact of 2%. The negative product mix impact was primarily driven by growth in developing markets and a shift in Actonel volume mix, which is sold under an alliance agreement, to support the global Once-a-week dosage launch. Net earnings for Health Care were $678 million, an increase of 36% compared to $498 million in 2002. The majority of the increase was driven by volume growth and the shift to higher-margin Oral Care and Pharmaceuticals products, partially offset by additional marketing investments to support product initiatives.
Baby and Family Care. Baby and Family Care unit volume increased 6% driven primarily by double-digit growth in Baby Care, including gains in Western Europe and developing markets, and low single-digit growth in Family Care. Family Care volume growth reflects a difficult competitive environment marked by increased promotional spending, particularly in North America. Net sales for the business grew 8% to $10.72 billion including a positive foreign exchange impact of 4%. Sales were negatively impacted by pricing of 1%, primarily due to increased competitive promotional activity in North America Family Care. Mix reduced sales by 1% due primarily to strong Baby Care growth in developing markets, where unit sales prices are generally lower than the business average.
Baby and Family Care net earnings were $990 million, an increase of 13% compared to 2003. Baby Care delivered profit growth from higher volume and product cost savings. Family Care earnings declined slightly due to increases in commodity costs (both pulp and natural gas) and increased spending for pricing. We announced North America Family Care increased prices effective in July to partially recover increases in commodity costs.
In 2003, Baby and Family Care delivered unit volume growth of 7%. Net sales grew 8% to $9.93 billion compared to $9.23 billion in 2002. Sales growth included a 3% positive foreign exchange impact and 1% positive mix impact, partially offset by a 3% negative impact from pricing. Positive mix was driven by increased sales of higher-priced, premium-tier diapers. The pricing impact was driven by targeted investments to match competitive pricing and merchandising across the business, primarily in North America and Western Europe. Net earnings were $873 million, an increase of 20% compared to $727 million in 2002.
 
Earnings growth was primarily achieved through increased scale from volume growth and lower product cost behind base business and restructuring savings.
Household Care
Fabric and Home Care. Fabric and Home Care unit volume was up 9% behind growth on established brands such as Tide, Ariel, Gain and Ace and the success of initiatives including Mr. Clean Magic Eraser, Mr. Clean AutoDry, Swiffer Duster, Gain Fabric Enhancer and the expansion of Febreze. Both the Fabric Care and Home Care businesses continue to grow or maintain market share on most key brands. Net sales increased 10%, to $13.87 billion. Sales growth includes a positive 3% foreign exchange impact. Pricing of negative 1% was primarily driven by actions to maintain competitive shelf pricing in key geographies, including North America and Western Europe. Mix reduced sales by 1% driven primarily by double-digit growth in developing markets, including the continued success of initiatives such as Tide Clean White in China and Downy One Rinse in Latin America. Products in developing markets generally have a lower average sales rate per unit than the business average.
Net earnings for Fabric and Home Care increased 7% to $2.19 billion. Net earnings margin was down slightly compared to 2003 due to the mix effect of disproportionate growth outside of the U.S. (as we expanded our business in certain geographies including China, India and Eastern Europe) and marketing investments behind new product initiatives. Startup costs for increased liquid detergent capacity in North America to support new product initiative activity and investments in supply chain optimization also contributed to the lower net earnings margin.
In 2003, Fabric and Home Care volume grew 9%. Net sales increased 8% to $12.56 billion compared to $11.62 billion in 2002. Foreign exchange contributed a positive impact of 1% to overall sales, driven primarily by the strength of the Euro. Sales were
 
negatively impacted by 1% due to pricing, primarily in North America and Western Europe. Sales were also reduced by 1% from mix due to growth of lower-priced products, including rapid growth in developing markets and broadening of the mid-tier portfolio of brands in major geographies. Net earnings were $2.05 billion, a 12% increase from $1.82 billion in 2002, driven primarily by volume growth and lower manufacturing costs. The impact of volume growth and lower manufacturing costs on earnings was partially offset by increased marketing spending in support of new product launches and expansion of existing brands.
Snacks and Coffee. Snacks and Coffee unit volume increased 6% as both Folgers and Pringles, each with sales in excess of one billion dollars, grew volume by mid-single digits. Net sales were $2.91 billion, an increase of 9%. Foreign exchange positively impacted sales by 3%. Product mix increased sales by 1%, primarily driven by faster growth of Folgers, which has a higher unit sales rate than the business average. Pricing reduced sales by 1% reflecting high promotional spending in the Coffee category.
Snacks and Coffee net earnings were $344 million, an increase of 18%, as volume and base business savings more than offset higher commodity costs.
In 2003, Snacks and Coffee unit volume increased 1%. Growth driven by Folgers was partially offset by the impact of the business interruption on Snacks shipments caused by tornado damage to the Jackson, Tennessee manufacturing facility. Net sales were $2.67 billion, or a 1% increase versus the previous year. Sales growth included a positive 2% impact from foreign exchange, which was offset by a negative 2% impact from pricing. Net earnings were $291 million compared to $282 million in 2002. Despite the impact of the tornado, net earnings increased due to reductions in cost of products sold, reflecting the impact of both base business and restructuring savings.
Corporate
Corporate includes amounts and activities not allocated to specific business units. These include: the results of incidental businesses managed at the corporate level, financing and investing activities, certain restructuring charges and other general corporate items. In addition, Corporate generally includes the historical results of divested and spun off businesses, including the Jif, Crisco and Juice businesses, which were previously included in the former Snacks and Beverages segment.
Corporate net sales primarily reflect the adjustment to eliminate the sales of unconsolidated entities included in business segment results and the results of divested businesses (e.g., Jif, Crisco and Juice). Corporate earnings improved in 2004, as the prior year included restructuring program charges. This improvement was partially offset by higher interest charges associated with Wella, hedging impacts and current year charges for projects to maintain a competitive cost structure. Lower Corporate earnings in 2003 primarily reflected the impact of the Jif and Crisco operations in the base period. Corporate earnings were also lower due to increased financing of employee benefit plans and hedging impacts from a stronger Euro, partially offset by decreased restructuring program costs.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
We believe our financial condition continues to be of high quality, as evidenced by our ability to generate substantial cash from operations and ready access to capital markets at competitive rates. We do not anticipate material changes to cash flow trends, although actual cash and debt balances will be influenced by a variety of factors, including acquisitions and other investment opportunities. For example, there is currently proposed legislation in the U.S. that could precipitate a substantial short-term change in our cash repatriation patterns under favorable conditions. Such an opportunity, and its implications, would need to be addressed once the provisions of the law are finalized and enacted.
Operating cash flow provides the primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Excess operating cash is used first to fund shareholder dividends. Other discretionary uses include share repurchase activities and acquisitions. As necessary, we may supplement operating cash flow with debt to fund these activities. The overall cash position of the Company reflects our strong business results and a global cash management strategy that takes into account liquidity management, economic factors and tax considerations. This includes the potential tax on repatriating cash balances to the U.S. versus other long-term offshore funding opportunities.
Operating Activities
In 2004, operating cash flow was $9.36 billion compared to $8.70 billion in 2003, representing an increase of 8%. Higher net earnings were the primary driver of the increase in operating cash flow. Operating cash flow growth trailed earnings growth due to an increase in accounts receivable, cash payments for restructuring program charges accrued last fiscal year and a dividend received from a joint venture in the base period.
The impacts of business growth on cash flow have been kept to a minimum as a result of the Company's focus on cash management. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding and inventory days on hand improved from June 30, 2003, excluding the impact of Wella.
We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor impacting the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. It is defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures and is one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and determine their at-risk compensation. In 2004, free cash flow was $7.34 billion compared to $7.22 billion in 2003 and $6.06 billion in 2002. Free cash flow in 2004 reflects increased operating cash flow, partially offset by increased capital expenditures, although spending was in line with our target of capital spending at or below 4% of sales. Capital spending in 2003 was well below historical levels and the long-term target.
Free cash flow productivity, defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings, was 113%, above the Company's long-term target of 90%. Free cash flow productivity was 139% in 2003.
Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Productivity (in billions and as % of net earnings)
{BAR CHART}
Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Productivity (in billions and as % of net earnings)
Investing Activities
Acquisitions. Net cash used for acquisitions in 2004 was $7.48 billion. The
 
primary drivers were the acquisition of Wella and the purchase of the remaining stake in our China venture with Hutchison Whampoa China Ltd. (Hutchison). The initial Wella acquisition in September 2003 was approximately $5.10 billion for an 81% interest, funded by a combination of debt and cash. In June 2004, the Company and Wella completed a domination and profit transfer agreement, which provided us full operating control and rights to 100% of future operating results. In exchange, we must pay the remaining Wella shareholders a guaranteed annual dividend payment. Alternatively, the Wella shareholders may elect to tender the shares for a fixed price. The obligation associated with the domination agreement is $1.11 billion and has been recognized as a current liability. The portion of the acquisition related to the domination agreement represents a non-cash transaction. Future payments related to the principal portion of the annual dividend arrangement or acquisition of shares tendered will be reflected as investing activities, consistent with the underlying transaction.
The gross cash outlay for Hutchison was $2.00 billion, which also includes the settlement of minority interest and certain other liabilities, for a net cost of $1.85 billion. The acquisition was funded by debt. We also completed certain smaller acquisitions with an aggregate cost of $384 million, including Glide dental floss and Fabric Care brands in Western Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. Net cash for acquisitions was $61 million in 2003 and $5.47 billion in 2002, primarily for the Clairol acquisition.
 
Capital Spending. Capital spending efficiency continues to be a critical component of the Company's overall cash management strategy. Our goal is to maintain capital spending at or below 4% of net sales. Total capital spending was $2.02 billion in 2004 versus $1.48 billion in 2003 and $1.68 billion in 2002. Capital spending as a percentage of net sales was 3.9% in 2004, in line with the Company's long-term target. Capital spending increased as a percent of net sales in 2004 primarily in support of capacity expansion projects in the Fabric and Home Care and the Baby and Family Care businesses. In 2003, capital spending as a percent of net sales was 3.4%, a significant decline versus 2002, which included considerable spending behind capacity additions. Over the past several years, we have made systemic interventions to improve capital spending efficiencies and asset utilization. While the Company's goal is to maintain capital expenditures at or below 4% of sales on an ongoing basis, there may be exceptional years when specific business circumstances, such as capacity additions, may lead to higher spending.
{LINE GRAPH}
Capital Spending (% of Net Sales)
Financing Activities
Dividend Payments. One of our first discretionary uses of cash is dividend payments. Common share dividends grew 13% to $0.93 per share in 2004, representing the 48th consecutive fiscal year of increased common share dividends. Total dividend payments, to both common and preferred shareholders, were $2.54 billion, $2.25 billion and $2.10 billion in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
{BAR CHART}
Dividends (per share)
Long-Term and Short-Term Debt. The Company maintains debt levels it considers appropriate considering a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for ongoing operations, investment plans (including acquisitions and share repurchase activities) and the overall cost of capital. Total debt increased in 2004 by $7.19 billion to $20.84 billion. The increase was primarily due to the acquisitions of Wella and the Hutchison minority interest, along with discretionary treasury share purchases. Debt due within one year increased to $8.29 billion in 2004, reflecting the decision to finance acquisition and share repurchase activity with commercial paper, given favorable rates. Total debt in 2003 was $13.65 billion compared to $14.93 billion in 2002. The decrease in 2003 was primarily due to the utilization of cash flow from operations to pay down existing balances.
Long-term borrowing available under our current shelf registration statement was $8.56 billion at June 30, 2004. The Company's Standard & Poor's (S&P) and Moody's short-term credit ratings are A-1+ and P-1, respectively. Our S&P and Moody's long-term credit ratings are AA- and Aa3, respectively.
Liquidity. As discussed previously, our primary source of liquidity is cash generated from operations. We believe internally-generated cash flows adequately support business operations, capital expenditures and shareholder dividends, as well as a level of discretionary investments (e.g., acquisitions and share repurchases). The Company is able to supplement its short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and $2.00 billion in bank credit facilities. Broad access to financing includes commercial paper programs in multiple markets at favorable rates given our strong credit ratings (including separate U.S. dollar, Canadian dollar and Euro multi-currency programs). We
 
maintain two bank credit facilities: a $1.00 billion, five-year facility which matures in July 2007 and a $1.00 billion, five-year facility which matures in July 2009. The Company has never drawn against either facility and has no plans to do so in the foreseeable future.
The credit facilities available to us do not have cross-default or ratings triggers, nor do they have material adverse events clauses, except at the time of signing. While not considered material to the overall financial condition of the Company, there is a covenant in the credit facilities stating the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization cannot exceed four at the time of a draw on the facility. As of June 30, we are comfortably below this level, with a ratio of approximately 1.3.
 
Treasury Purchases. During the past year, we substantially increased our level of share repurchases. In 2004, treasury share purchases used $4.07 billion compared to $1.24 billion in 2003 and $568 million in 2002. We purchase the Company's common stock on the open market. While the actual level of annual activity can vary, our intent generally is to purchase at least a sufficient number of shares to mitigate the dilutive impact of options. Beyond that, we may make additional discretionary purchases based on cash availability, market trends and other factors. We believe this share repurchase activity represents an alternative vehicle to provide value to shareholders. Lower share purchases in 2003 and 2002 reflect the need to preserve capital ahead of the Wella and Clairol acquisitions, respectively. Although no formal plan exists, we expect to continue to repurchase shares, with the ultimate amount depending on cash flow and alternate investment options.
Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, that we believe could have a material impact on financial condition or liquidity.
Contractual Commitments. The table below provides information on our contractual commitments as of June 30, 2004.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
In preparing our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, there are certain accounting policies that are particularly important. These include revenue recognition, income taxes, certain employee benefits and goodwill and intangible assets. We believe these accounting policies, and others set forth in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, should be reviewed as they are integral to understanding the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. In some cases, these policies simply represent required accounting. In others, they may represent a choice between acceptable accounting methods or may require substantial judgment or estimation in their application.
Due to the nature of our business, these estimates generally are not considered highly uncertain at the time of estimation, meaning they are not expected to result in a change that would materially affect our results of operations or financial condition in any given year.
The Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.
 
 
Revenue Recognition
Most of our revenue transactions represent sales of inventory, and we recognize revenue when title, ownership and risk of loss transfers to the customer. A provision for payment discounts and product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales within the same period that the revenue is recognized. We offer sales incentives through various programs, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer coupons. The cost of these programs is recorded as a reduction of sales. Given the nature of our business, revenue recognition practices do not contain estimates that materially affect results of operations.
Income Taxes
Our annual tax rate is determined based on our income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. Tax law requires items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items reflected in the financial statements. As a result, our annual tax rate reflected in our financial statements is different than reported on our tax return (our cash tax rates). Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expenditures for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized in our financial statements.
Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Realization of certain deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction prior to the expiration of the carry-forward periods. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized.
Changes in existing tax laws, tax rates and their related interpretations may also affect our ability to successfully manage the impacts of regulatory matters around the world. The Company establishes reserves for tax positions that management believes are supportable, but are subject to successful challenge by the applicable taxing authority. The Company reviews these in light of the changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit, and will adjust them when significant changes in risk warrant it. The Company has a number of audits in process in various jurisdictions. Although the results of these audits are uncertain, based on currently available information, the Company believes that the ultimate outcome will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, cash flow or earnings.
Our accounting represents management's best estimate of future events than can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. Certain changes or future events, such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings, completion of tax audits or modification of cash repatriation plans could have an impact on the Company's estimates and effective tax rate.
Employee Benefits
We sponsor various post-employment benefits throughout the world. These include pension plans, both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, and other post-employment benefit (OPEB) plans, consisting primarily of health care
 
and life insurance for retirees. For accounting purposes, the defined benefit and OPEB plans require assumptions to estimate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations, including discount rate, expected salary increases and health care cost trend rates. These and other assumptions, including the expected return on plan assets, also affect the annual expense recognized for these plans. Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and management's best judgment regarding future expectations.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is important, since many of our defined benefit plans and our primary OPEB plan are funded. The process for setting the expected rates of return is described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 2004, the average return on assets assumption for pension plan assets is 7.4%. A change in the rate of return of 1% would impact annual benefit expense by approximately $15 million after tax. For 2004, the return on assets assumption for OPEB assets is 9.5%. A 1% change in the rate of return would impact annual benefit expense by approximately $20 million after tax.
Since pension and OPEB liabilities are measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate is a significant assumption. The discount rates used for defined benefit and OPEB plans are set by benchmarking against investment grade corporate bonds rated AA or better. The average rate on the defined benefit plans of 5.2% represents a weighted average of local rates in countries where such plans exist. A 0.5% reduction in the discount rate would increase annual benefit expense by approximately $25 million after tax. The rate on the OPEB plan of 6.1% reflects the higher interest rates generally available in the U.S., which is where a majority of the plan participants receive benefits. A 0.5% reduction in the discount rate would increase annual benefit expense by approximately $5 million after tax.
 
Certain defined contribution pension and OPEB benefits in the U.S. are funded by the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP), as discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We also have employee stock option plans which are accounted for under the intrinsic value recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations. As stock options have been issued with exercise prices equal to the market value of the underlying shares on the grant date, no compensation expense has resulted. Notes 1 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements provide supplemental information, including pro forma earnings and earnings per share, as if the Company had accounted for options based on the fair value method prescribed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." The estimate of fair value requires a number of assumptions, including estimated option life and future volatility of the underlying stock price. Changes in these assumptions could significantly impact the estimated fair value of the stock options, as could a change in valuation methodology (e.g., from Black-Scholes to a different binomial method).
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
The Company seeks to deliver value from innovation by building brands and businesses. In many cases, brands are created internally, and the costs are expensed as incurred. In other cases, brands and businesses may be acquired, which generally results in intangible assets recognized in the financial statements. These intangibles may represent indefinite-lived assets (e.g., certain trademarks or brands), definite-lived intangibles (e.g., patents) or residual goodwill. Of these, only the costs of definite-lived intangibles are amortized to expense over their estimated life. The classification of intangibles and the determination of the appropriate life requires substantial judgment. Our history demonstrates that many of the Company's brands have very long lives and our objective is to generally maintain them indefinitely. For accounting purposes, we evaluate a number of factors to determine whether an indefinite life is appropriate, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history, operating plan and the macroeconomic environment of the country in which the brand is sold. If it is determined that an intangible does not have an indefinite life, our policy is to amortize the balance over the expected useful life, which generally ranges from 5 to 20 years.
We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually, by reviewing the book value compared to the fair value at the reporting unit level.
Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in the Company's impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and cost of capital, are consistent with internal projections and operating plans. For intangible assets subject to amortization, we review the remaining life of the assets on an annual basis to determine whether events or circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. The value of goodwill and intangible assets from recently-acquired businesses are derived from the current macroeconomic environment and therefore, are more susceptible to a short-term adverse economic change that could require an impairment charge. The Company did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or intangible assets subject to amortization during the years presented.
OTHER INFORMATION
Hedging and Derivative Financial Instruments
 
As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. To manage the volatility related to these exposures, we evaluate our exposures on a global basis to take advantage of the netting opportunities that exist. For the remaining exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions in accordance with the Company's hedging policies that are designed to offset, in-part or in-whole, changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes a detailed discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments.
Derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuation, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk modeling. The tests for interest rate and currency rate exposures discussed below are based on a Monte Carlo simulation value-at-risk model using a one year horizon and a 95% confidence level. The model incorporates the impact of correlation (exposures that tend to move in tandem over time) and diversification from holding multiple currency and interest rate instruments and assumes that financial returns are normally distributed. Estimates of volatility and correlations of market factors are drawn from the RiskMetrics dataset as of June 30, 2004. In cases where data is unavailable in RiskMetrics, a reasonable proxy is included.
Our market risk exposures relative to interest and currency rates, as discussed below, have not changed materially versus the previous reporting period. In addition, we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would significantly impact such exposures in the near-term.
 
Interest Rate Exposure. Interest rate swaps are used to hedge exposures to interest rate movement on underlying debt obligations. Certain rate swaps denominated in foreign currencies are designated to hedge exposures to currency exchange rate movements on the Company's investments in foreign operations. These currency interest rate swaps are designated as hedges of the Company's foreign net investments.
Based on our overall interest rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2004, including derivative and other instruments sensitive to interest rates, we do not believe a near-term change in interest rates, at a 95% confidence level based on historical interest rate movements, would materially affect our financial statements.
Currency Rate Exposure. Because we manufacture and sell products in a number of countries throughout the world, we are exposed to the impact on revenue and expenses of movements in currency exchange rates. The primary purpose of the Company's currency hedging activities is to reduce the risk that our financial position will be adversely affected by short-term changes in exchange rates. Corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. We primarily use forward exchange contracts and purchased options with maturities of less than 18 months.
In addition, we enter into certain currency swaps with maturities of up to five years to hedge our exposure to exchange rate movements on intercompany financing transactions. The Company also uses purchased currency options with maturities of generally less than 18 months and forward exchange contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on intercompany royalties and to offset a portion of the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on income from international operations.
Based on our overall currency rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2004, including derivative and other instruments sensitive to currency movements, we do not believe a near-term change in currency rates, at a 95% confidence level based on historical currency rate movements, would materially affect our financial statements.
Commodity Price Exposure. We use raw materials that are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. In addition to fixed price contracts, we use futures, options and swap contracts to manage the volatility related to the above exposures. Commodity hedging activity is not considered material to our financial statements.
Restructuring Program
In 1999, concurrent with a reorganization of our operations into product-based Global Business Units, we initiated a multi-year restructuring program. Total restructuring program charges were $538 million and $706 million after tax in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The program was substantially complete at the end of June 2003 with a remaining reserve of $335 million. Substantially all of the liability was settled through cash payments through June 30, 2004.
The Company continues to undertake projects to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing consolidations and work force rationalization, as part of its normal operations.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our discussion of financial results includes several "non-GAAP" financial measures. We believe these measures provide our investors with additional information about our underlying results and trends, as well as insight to some of the metrics used to evaluate management. When used in MD&A, we have provided
 
the comparable GAAP measure in the discussion. These measures include:
Organic Sales Growth. Organic sales growth measures sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons. The Company believes this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying results and trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
Free Cash Flow. Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending. The Company views free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.
Free Cash Flow Productivity. Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. The Company's target is to generate free cash flow at or above 90% of net earnings. Free cash flow productivity is one of the measures used to evaluate senior management.

 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
{DELOITTE LOGO}
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Procter & Gamble Company:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2004 and 2003 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2004. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at June 30, 2004 and 2003 and the results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Deloitte & Touche LLP Cincinnati, Ohio
August 6, 2004, except as to Notes 1 (New Pronouncements and Reclassifications), 4 and 12, which are as of October 21, 2004
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ASSETS
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Restated for two-for-one stock split effective May 21, 2004)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Nature of Operations
The Procter & Gamble Company's (the Company) business is focused on providing consumer branded products of superior quality and value. The Company markets approximately 300 consumer products in more than 160 countries around the world. Our products are sold primarily through retail operations including mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores and drug stores.
Basis of Presentation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include The Procter & Gamble Company and its controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Investments in certain companies over which the Company exerts significant influence, but does not control the financial and operating decisions, are accounted for as equity method investments.
Use of Estimates
Preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions the Company may undertake in the future. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, consumer and trade promotion accruals, pensions, post-employment benefits, stock options, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, future cash flows associated with impairment testing for goodwill and long-lived assets, deferred tax assets, potential income tax assessments and contingencies. Actual results may ultimately differ from estimates, although management does not believe such changes would materially affect the financial statements in any individual year.
Revenue Recognition
Sales are recognized when revenue is realized or realizable and has been earned. Most revenue transactions represent sales of inventory, and the revenue recorded includes shipping and handling costs, which generally are included in the list price to the customer. The Company's policy is to recognize revenue when title to the product, ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which generally is on the date of shipment. A provision for payment discounts and product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales in the same period that the revenue is recognized.
Trade promotions, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer coupons, are offered through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales are recorded net of trade promotion spending, which is recognized as incurred, generally at the time of the sale. Most of these arrangements have terms of approximately one year. Accruals for expected payouts under these programs are included as accrued marketing and promotion in the accrued and other current liabilities line in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Cost of Products Sold
Cost of products sold primarily comprises direct materials and supplies consumed in the manufacture of product, as well as manufacturing labor and direct overhead expense necessary to acquire and convert the purchased materials and supplies into finished product. Cost of products sold also includes the cost to distribute products to customers, inbound freight costs, internal transfer costs, warehousing costs and other shipping and handling activity. Shipping and handling costs invoiced to customers are included in net sales.
Selling, General and Administrative
 
Selling, general and administrative expense primarily includes marketing expenses, including the cost of media, advertising and related costs; selling expenses; research and development costs; administrative and other indirect overhead costs; and other miscellaneous operating items.
Other Non-Operating Income, Net
Other non-operating income, net primarily includes interest and investment income and gains and losses from divestitures.
Currency Translation
Financial statements of operating subsidiaries outside the United States of America (U.S.) generally are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Adjustments to translate those statements into U.S. dollars are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI). For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies, the U.S. dollar is the functional currency. Remeasurement adjustments for financial statements in highly inflationary economies and other transactional exchange gains and losses are reflected in earnings.
Cash Flow Presentation
The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect method, which reconciles net earnings to cash flow from operating activities. These adjustments include the removal of timing differences between the occurrence of operating receipts and payments and their recognition in net earnings. The adjustments also remove from operating activities cash flows arising from investing and financing activities, which are
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
presented separately from operating activities. Cash flows from foreign currency transactions and operations are translated at an average exchange rate for the period. Cash flows from hedging activities are included in the same category as the items being hedged. Cash flows from derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges are classified as financing activities. Cash flows from other derivative instruments used to manage interest, commodity or currency exposures are classified as operating activities. Cash paid for acquisitions is classified as investing activities.
Cash Equivalents
Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents and recorded at cost.
Investments
Investment securities consist of readily-marketable debt and equity securities. These securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as trading are charged to earnings. Unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as available for sale are recorded net of tax in OCI.
Other investments that are not controlled and over which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted under the cost method.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are valued at cost, which is not in excess of current market prices. Product-related inventories are primarily maintained on the first-in, first-out method. Minor amounts of product inventories, including certain cosmetics and commodities are maintained on the last-in, first-out method. The cost of spare part inventories is maintained using the average cost method.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The cost of intangible assets with determinable useful lives is amortized to reflect the pattern of economic benefits consumed, principally on a straight-line basis over the estimated periods benefited. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles are not amortized, but are evaluated annually for impairment. The Company evaluates a number of factors to determine whether an indefinite life is appropriate, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history, operating plan and the macroeconomic environment of the country in which the brand is sold. Due to the nature of the Company's business, there are a number of brand intangibles that have been determined to have indefinite lives. If it is determined that a brand intangible does not have an indefinite life, the Company's policy is to amortize such assets over the expected useful life, which generally ranges from 5 to 20 years. Patents, technology and other intangibles with contractual terms are amortized over their respective contractual lives. Other non-contractual intangible assets with determinable lives are amortized over periods ranging from 5 to 20 years.
Where certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, lives on intangible assets with determinable lives may be adjusted and an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts. The annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles is based on valuation models that incorporate internal projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost reduced by accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense is recognized over the assets' estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Machinery and equipment includes office furniture and equipment (15-year life), computer equipment and capitalized software (3 to 5-year lives) and manufacturing equipment (3 to
 
20-year lives). Buildings are depreciated over an estimated useful life of 40 years. Estimated useful lives are periodically reviewed and, where appropriate, changes are made prospectively. Where certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, asset lives may be adjusted and an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts.
Fair Values of Financial Instruments
Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. The estimated fair values of such financial instruments, including certain debt instruments, investment securities and derivatives, have been determined using market information and valuation methodologies, primarily discounted cash flow analysis. These estimates require considerable judgment in interpreting market data and changes in assumptions or estimation methods could significantly affect the fair value estimates. However, the Company does not believe any such changes would have a material impact on its financial condition or results of operations. Other financial instruments, including cash equivalents, other investments and short-term debt, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. The fair valve of long-term debt is disclosed in Note 6.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company has employee stock option plans, which are described more fully in Note 8. The Company accounts for its employee stock option plans under the intrinsic value recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations. As stock options have been issued with exercise prices equal to the market value of the underlying shares on the grant date, no compensation expense has resulted.
Had compensation expense for the plans been determined based on the fair value of the options on the grant date, consistent with SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the Company's net earnings and earnings per common share would have been as follows:
Stock Split
In March 2004, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock split effective for common and preferred shareholders of record as of May 21, 2004. The financial statements, notes and other references to share and per share data have been restated to reflect the stock split for all periods presented.
New Pronouncements and Reclassifications
No new accounting pronouncements issued or effective during the fiscal year have had or are expected to have a material impact on the financial statements. Certain reclassifications of prior years' amounts have been made to conform to the current year presentation, including the basis of measurement for segment performance. These adjustments reflect recent changes in the measures used to evaluate the performance of senior management, consistent with the Company's increased acquisition and licensing activity.
 
Segment before-tax and after-tax earnings reflect the Company's decision to allocate the amortization of identifiable intangible assets with determinable lives from Corporate to the global business units. Other changes made to the basis of measurement of segment performance are the allocation methodologies of certain overhead items managed by the Company's Global Business Services organization. Certain other immaterial changes were made to the cost allocations from Corporate to the business segments. These changes affect the disclosure of segment results only.
NOTE 2 RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
In 1999, concurrent with a reorganization of its operations into product-based Global Business Units, the Company initiated a multi-year restructuring program. Costs included enrollment reductions, manufacturing consolidations and portfolio choices to scale back or discontinue under-performing businesses and initiatives. Total restructuring program charges were $751 in 2003, including $351 in separations related to approximately 5,000 people, $190 in asset write-downs and $87 in accelerated depreciation related to long-lived assets that were taken out of service prior to the end of their normal service period. Total restructuring program charges were $958 in 2002, including $393 in separations related to approximately 7,400 people, $208 in asset write-downs and $135 in accelerated depreciation.
At June 30, 2003, the program was substantially complete with a remaining reserve of $335. Substantially all of this liability was settled through cash payments by the end of 2004.
The Company continues to undertake projects to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing streamlining and work force rationalization, as part of its normal operations.
NOTE 3 ACQUISITIONS AND SPIN-OFF
Wella Acquisition
On September 2, 2003, the Company acquired a controlling interest in Wella AG (Wella). Through a stock purchase agreement with the majority shareholders of Wella and a tender offer made on the remaining shares, the Company acquired a total of 81% of Wella's outstanding shares, including 99% of Wella's outstanding voting class shares. In June 2004, the Company and Wella entered into a Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement (the Domination Agreement) pursuant to which the Company is entitled to exercise full operating control and receive 100% of the future earnings of Wella. As consideration for the Domination Agreement, the Company will pay the holders of the remaining outstanding shares of Wella a guaranteed perpetual annual dividend payment. Alternatively, the remaining Wella shareholders may elect to tender their shares to the Company for an agreed price. The fair value of the total guaranteed annual dividend payments is $1.11 billion, which approximates the cost if all remaining shares were tendered. Because the Domination Agreement transfers operational and economic control of the remaining outstanding shares to the Company, it has been accounted for as an acquisition of the remaining shares, with a liability recorded equal to the fair value of the guaranteed payments. Because of the tender feature, the liability is recorded as a current liability in the accrued and other liabilities
 
line of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Payments made under the guaranteed annual dividend provisions will be allocated between interest expense and a reduction of the liability, as appropriate. The total purchase price for Wella, including acquisition costs, was $6.27 billion based on exchange rates at the acquisition dates. It was funded with a combination of cash, debt and the liability recorded under the Domination Agreement
The acquisition of Wella, with over $3 billion in annual net sales, gives the Company access to the professional hair care category plus greater scale and scope in hair care, hair colorants, cosmetics and fragrance products, while providing potential for significant synergies. The operating results of the Wella business are reported in the Company's Beauty Care business segment beginning September 2, 2003.
The following table provides pro forma results of operations for the years ended June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, as if Wella had been acquired as of the beginning of each fiscal year presented. The pro forma results include certain adjustments, including adjustments to convert Wella's historical financial information from International Accounting Standards (IAS) into U.S. GAAP, estimated interest impacts from funding of the acquisition and estimated amortization of definite-lived intangible assets. However, pro forma results do not include any anticipated cost savings or other effects of the integration of Wella. Accordingly, such amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred if the acquisition had occurred on the dates indicated or that may result in the future.
The Company is in the process of finalizing independent appraisals for certain assets to assist management in allocating the purchase price to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This may result in adjustments to the carrying values of Wella's recorded assets and liabilities, including the amount of any residual value allocated to goodwill. The Company is also completing its analysis of collaboration plans that may result in additional purchase price allocation adjustments. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price included in the current period balance sheet is based on the current best estimates of management and is subject to revision based on final determination of fair values and collaboration plans. The Company anticipates the valuations and other studies will be completed prior to the anniversary date of the acquisition. The preliminary allocation of the total purchase price of Wella resulted in the following condensed balance sheet of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
 
The Wella acquisition resulted in $5.86 billion in goodwill, all of which was allocated to the Beauty Care segment, and $1.71 billion in total intangible assets acquired with $1.15 billion allocated to trademarks with indefinite lives. The remaining $556 of acquired intangibles have determinable useful lives and were assigned to trademarks of $267, patents and technology of $10, professional customer relationships of $214 and license and other intangible assets of $65. Total intangible assets acquired with determinable lives have a weighted-average life of 11 years (8 years for trademarks, 5 years for patents and technology, 15 years for professional customer relationships and 23 years for license and other intangible assets).
China Venture
On June 18, 2004, the Company purchased the remaining 20% stake in its China venture from its partner, Hutchison Whampoa China Ltd. (Hutchison), giving the Company full ownership in its operations in China. The net purchase price was $1.85 billion, which is the purchase price of $2.00 billion net of minority interest and related obligations that were eliminated as a result of the transaction. The acquisition was funded by debt. The fair value of the incremental individual assets and liabilities acquired approximates current book value. Accordingly, the purchase price was recorded as goodwill, which was allocated to multiple business segments.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Clairol Acquisition
On November 16, 2001, the Company completed the acquisition of the Clairol business from The Bristol-Myers Squibb Company for approximately $5.03 billion in cash, financed primarily with debt. The operating results of the Clairol business are reported in the Company's Beauty Care segment beginning November 16, 2001.
The following table provides pro forma results of operations for the year ended June 30, 2002 as if Clairol had been acquired as of the beginning of the fiscal year. Pro forma information for 2004 and 2003 is not presented as the results of Clairol are included with those of the Company for the entire year. The pro forma results include adjustments for estimated interest expense on acquisition funding and amortization of definite-lived intangible assets. However, pro forma results do not include any anticipated cost savings or other effects of the integration of Clairol. Accordingly, such amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred if the acquisition had closed on the dates indicated or that may result in the future.
Jif and Crisco Spin-off
On May 31, 2002, the Jif peanut butter and Crisco shortening brands were spun off to the Company's shareholders and subsequently merged into The J.M. Smucker Company (Smucker). The Company's shareholders received one new common Smucker share for every 50 shares held in the Company, totaling 26 million shares, or approximately $900 in market value. This transaction was not included in the results of operations, since a spin-off to the Company's shareholders is recorded at net book value, or $150, in a manner similar to dividends.
Other minor business purchases and intangible asset acquisitions totaled $384, $61 and $446 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
NOTE 4 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The change in net carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 was allocated by reportable business segment as follows:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
For the year ended June 30, 2004, goodwill increased primarily due to the acquisition of Wella and the purchase of the remaining stake in the China venture.
Identifiable intangible assets as of June 30, 2004 and 2003 were comprised of:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The amortization of intangible assets for the years ended June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $165, $100 and $97, respectively. Estimated amortization expense over the next five years is as follows: 2005  $171; 2006  $169; 2007  $119; 2008  $106; and 2009  $104. Such estimates do not reflect the impact of future foreign exchange rate changes.
NOTE 5 SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Selected components of current and non-current liabilities were as follows:
Selected Operating Expenses
Research and development costs are charged to earnings as incurred and were $1,802 in 2004, $1,665 in 2003 and $1,601 in 2002. Advertising costs are charged to earnings as incurred and were $5,504 in 2004, $4,373 in 2003 and $3,773 in 2002. Both of these are components of selling, general and administrative expense.
NOTE 6 SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The weighted average short-term interest rates were 1.5% and 3.6% as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The rate decrease reflected an increase in commercial paper within short-term debt.
Long-term weighted average interest rates were 4.0% and 3.7% as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and included the effects of related interest rate swaps discussed in Note 7.
The fair value of the long-term debt was $13,168 and $12,396 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Long-term debt maturities during the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2005  $1,518; 2006  $2,625; 2007  $1,433; 2008  $972; and 2009  $1,150. The Company has no material obligations that are secured.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
NOTE 7 RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, the Company is exposed to market risks, such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity pricing. To manage the volatility related to these exposures, the Company evaluates exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of logical exposure netting. For the remaining exposures, the Company enters into various derivative transactions. Such derivative transactions, which are executed in accordance with the Company's policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices, are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended and interpreted. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes.
At inception, the Company formally designates and documents the financial instrument as a hedge of a specific underlying exposure. The Company formally assesses, both at inception and at least quarterly on an ongoing basis, whether the financial instruments used in hedging transactions are effective at offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposure. Fluctuations in the derivative value generally are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the exposures being hedged. This offset is driven by the high degree of effectiveness between the exposure being hedged and the hedging instrument. Any ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings.
Credit Risk
The Company has established strict counterparty credit guidelines and normally enters into transactions with investment grade financial institutions. Counterparty exposures are monitored daily and downgrades in credit rating are reviewed on a timely basis. Credit risk arising from the inability of a counterparty to meet the terms of the Company's financial instrument contracts generally is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparty's obligations exceed the obligations of the Company. The Company does not expect to incur material credit losses on its risk management or other financial instruments.
Interest Rate Management
The Company's policy is to manage interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. To manage this risk in a cost efficient manner, the Company enters into interest rate swaps in which the Company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount.
Interest rate swaps that meet specific conditions under SFAS No. 133 are accounted for as fair value hedges. Changes in the fair value of both the hedging instruments and the underlying debt obligations are immediately recognized in earnings as equal and offsetting gains and losses in the interest expense component of the income statement. The fair value of the Company's interest rate swap agreements was a net asset of $45 and $322 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. All existing fair value hedges are 100% effective. As a result, there is no impact to earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Foreign Currency Management
The Company manufactures and sells its products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The purpose of the Company's foreign currency hedging program is to reduce the risk caused by short-term changes in exchange rates.
The Company primarily utilizes forward exchange contracts and purchased options with maturities of less than 18 months and currency swaps with maturities up to
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
5 years. These instruments are intended to offset the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on forecasted sales, inventory purchases, intercompany royalties and intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies and are therefore accounted for as cash flow hedges. The fair value of these instruments at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003 was $47 and $27 in assets and $140 and $92 in liabilities, respectively. The effective portion of the changes in fair value for these instruments are reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line item and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. The ineffective portion, which is not material for any year presented, is immediately recognized in earnings.
Certain instruments used by the Company for foreign exchange risk do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. In these cases, the change in value of the instruments is designed to offset the foreign currency impact of intercompany financing transactions, income from international operations and other balance sheet revaluations. The fair value of these instruments at June 30, 2004 and 2003 was $71 and $113 in assets and $26 and $26 in liabilities, respectively. The gain or loss on these instruments is immediately recognized in earnings. The net impact of such instruments, included in selling, general and administrative expense, was $80, $264 and $50 of gains in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, which substantially offset foreign currency transaction losses of the items being hedged.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Net Investment Hedging
The Company hedges certain net investment positions in major currencies. To accomplish this, the Company borrows directly in foreign currency and designates a portion of foreign currency debt as a hedge of net investments in foreign subsidiaries. In addition, certain foreign currency swaps are designated as hedges of the Company's related foreign net investments. Under SFAS No. 133, changes in the fair value of these instruments are immediately recognized in OCI, to offset the change in the value of the net investment being hedged. Currency effects of these hedges reflected in OCI were a $348 and $418 after-tax loss in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Accumulated net balances were a $586 after-tax loss in 2004 and a $238 after-tax loss in 2003.
Commodity Price Management
Raw materials used by the Company are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. To manage the volatility related to certain anticipated inventory purchases, the Company uses futures and options with maturities generally less than one year and swap contracts with maturities up to five years. These market instruments are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133. Accordingly, the mark-to-market gain or loss on qualifying hedges is reported in OCI and reclassified into cost of products sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Qualifying cash flow hedges currently recorded in OCI are not considered material. The mark-to-market gain or loss on non-qualifying, excluded and ineffective portions of hedges is immediately recognized in cost of products sold. Commodity hedging activity was not material to the Company's financial statements for any of the years presented.
NOTE 8 EARNINGS PER SHARE AND STOCK OPTIONS
Net Earnings Per Common Share
Net earnings less preferred dividends (net of related tax benefits) are divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year to calculate basic net earnings per common share. Diluted net earnings per common share are calculated to give effect to stock options and assuming conversion of preferred stock (see Note 9).
Net earnings and common share balances used to calculate basic and diluted net earnings per share were as follows:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company has a primary stock-based compensation plan under which stock options are granted annually to key managers and directors with exercise prices equal to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. Grants were made under plans approved by shareholders in 1992, 2001 and 2003. Grants issued since September 2002 are vested after three years and have a ten-year life. Grants issued from July 1998 through August 2002 are vested after three years and have a fifteen-year life, while grants issued prior to July 1998 are vested after one year and have a ten-year life. The Company also makes other minor grants to employees, for which vesting terms and option lives are not substantially different.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Had the provision of SFAS No. 123 expensing been applied, the Company's net earnings and earnings per common share would have been impacted as summarized in the discussion of the Company's stock-based compensation accounting policy in Note 1. In calculating the impact for options granted, the Company has estimated the fair value of each grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Assumptions are evaluated and revised, as necessary, to reflect market conditions and experience. The following assumptions were used:
The following table summarizes stock option activity during 2004, 2003 and 2002:
Stock options outstanding at June 30, 2004 were in the following exercise price ranges:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Stock options exercisable at June 30, 2004 were in the following exercise price ranges:
The Company repurchases common shares to mitigate the dilutive impact of options. Beyond that, the Company may make additional discretionary purchases based on cash availability, market trends and other factors.
In limited cases, the Company also issues stock appreciation rights, generally in countries where stock options are not permitted by local governments. The obligations and associated compensation expense are adjusted for changes in intrinsic value. The impact of these adjustments is not material.
NOTE 9 POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN
The Company offers various postretirement benefits to its employees.
Defined Contribution Retirement Plans
The most prevalent employee benefit plans offered are defined contribution plans, which cover substantially all employees in the U.S., as well as employees in certain other countries. These plans are fully funded.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Under the defined contribution plans, the Company generally makes contributions to participants based on individual base salaries and years of service. In the U.S., the contribution is set annually. Historically, the Company has contributed approximately 15% of total participants' annual wages and salaries.
The Company maintains The Procter & Gamble Profit Sharing Trust (Trust) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) to provide a portion of the funding for the U.S. defined contribution plan, as well as other retiree benefits. Operating details of the ESOP are provided at the end of this Note. The fair value of the ESOP Series A shares reduces the Company's cash contribution required to fund the U.S. defined contribution plan. Defined contribution expense, which approximates the Company's cash contribution to the plan that is funded in the subsequent year, was $274, $286 and $279 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Defined Benefit Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits
Certain other employees, primarily outside the U.S., are covered by local defined benefit pension plans as well as other retiree benefit plans.
The Company also provides certain other retiree benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, for substantially all U.S. employees who become eligible for these benefits when they meet minimum age and service requirements. Generally, the health care plans require cost sharing with retirees and pay a stated percentage of expenses, reduced by deductibles and other coverages. These benefits primarily are funded by ESOP Series B shares, as well as certain other assets contributed by the Company.
The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 was signed into law on December 8, 2003. This Act introduces a Medicare prescription-drug benefit beginning in 2006 as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care plans that provide a benefit at least "actuarially equivalent" to the Medicare benefit. Management has concluded that the Company's plans are at least "actuarially equivalent" to the Medicare benefit and, accordingly, has included the federal subsidy from the Act in the normal year-end measurement process for other retiree benefit plans. The impact is a reduction to the benefit obligation of $195 as of June 30, 2004. The impact to net periodic pension cost and to benefits paid in future years is not expected to be material.
Obligation and Funded Status. The Company uses a June 30 measurement date for its defined benefit retirement plans and other retiree benefit plans. The following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of these plans:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The underfunding of pension benefits is primarily a function of the different funding incentives that exist outside of the U.S. In certain countries where the Company has major operations, there are no legal requirements or financial incentives provided to companies to pre-fund pension obligations. In these instances, benefit payments are typically paid directly from the Company's cash as they become due, rather than through the creation of a separate pension fund.
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit retirement plans was $3,822 and $2,850 at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, respectively. Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of June 30, consist of the following:
     Net Periodic Benefit Cost. Components of the net periodic benefit cost were as follows:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Assumptions. The Company determines its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis. These assumptions are weighted to reflect each country that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. The weighted-average assumptions for the defined benefit and other retiree benefit calculations, as well as assumed health care cost trend rates, for the years ended June 30, are as follows:
Several factors are considered in developing the estimate for the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets. For the defined benefit plans, these include historical rates of return of broad equity and bond indices and projected long-term rates of return from pension investment consultants. The expected long-term rates of return for plan assets are 8%-9% for equities and 5%-6% bonds. The rate of return on other retiree benefit plan assets, comprised primarily of Company stock, is based on the long-term projected return of 9.5% and reflects the historical pattern of favorable returns on the Company's stock relative to broader market indices (e.g., S&P 500).
Assumed health care cost trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the other retiree benefit plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Plan Assets. The Company's target asset allocation for the year ending June 30, 2005 and actual asset allocation by asset category as of June 30, 2004, and 2003, are as follows:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The Company's investment objective for defined benefit plan assets is to meet the plans' benefit obligations, while minimizing the potential for future required Company plan contributions. The investment strategies focus on asset class diversification, liquidity to meet benefit payments and an appropriate balance of long-term investment return and risk. Target ranges for asset allocations are determined by matching the actuarial projections of the plans' future liabilities and benefit payments with expected long-term rates of return on the assets, taking into account investment return volatility and correlations across asset classes. Plan assets are diversified across several investment managers and are generally invested in liquid funds that are selected to track broad market equity and bond indices. Investment risk is carefully controlled with plan assets rebalanced to target allocations on a periodic basis and continual monitoring of investment managers performance relative to the investment guidelines established with each investment manager.
Cash Flows. Management's best estimate of its cash requirements for the defined benefit plans and other retiree benefit plans for the year ending June 30, 2005 is $237 and $20, respectively. For the defined benefit plans, this is comprised of expected benefit payments of $71, which are paid directly to participants of unfunded plans from employer assets, as well as expected contributions to funded plans of $166. For other retiree benefit plans, this is comprised of expected contributions that will be used directly for benefit payments. Expected contributions are dependent on many variables, including the variability of the market value of the assets as compared to the obligation and other market or regulatory conditions. In addition, the Company takes into consideration its business investment opportunities and resulting cash requirements. Accordingly, actual funding may differ greatly from current estimates.
Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which include payments funded from the Company's assets, as discussed above, as well as payments paid from the plans are as follows:
Employee Stock Ownership Plan
The Company maintains the ESOP to provide funding for certain employee benefits discussed in the preceding paragraphs.
The ESOP borrowed $1.00 billion in 1989 and the proceeds were used to purchase Series A ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the defined contribution retirement plan in the U.S. Principal and interest requirements were paid by the Trust from dividends on the preferred shares and from advances from the Company. The final payment for the original borrowing of $1.00 billion was made in 2004 and the remaining debt of the ESOP consists of amounts owed to the Company. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was $0.93 per share. The liquidation value is $6.82 per share.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
In 1991, the ESOP borrowed an additional $1.00 billion. The proceeds were used to purchase Series B ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of retiree health care benefits. These shares are considered plan assets, net of the associated debt, of the Other Retiree Benefits plan discussed above. Debt service requirements are funded by preferred stock dividends and cash contributions from the Company. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was $1.02 per share. The liquidation value is $12.96 per share.
As permitted by Statement of Position (SOP) 93-6, "Employers Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans," the Company has elected, where applicable, to continue its practices, which are based on SOP 76-3, "Accounting Practices for Certain Employee Stock Ownership Plans." ESOP debt, which is guaranteed by the Company, is recorded as debt (see Note 6). Preferred shares issued to the ESOP are offset by the reserve for ESOP debt retirement in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity. Interest incurred on the ESOP debt is recorded as interest expense. Dividends on all preferred shares, net of related tax benefits, are charged to retained earnings.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
As required by SOP 76-3, the preferred shares of the ESOP are allocated based on debt service requirements, net of advances made by the Company to the Trust. The number of preferred shares outstanding at June 30, was as follows:
For purposes of calculating diluted net earnings per common share, the preferred shares held by the ESOP are considered converted from inception. Diluted net earnings are calculated assuming that all preferred shares are converted to common, and therefore are adjusted to reflect the incremental ESOP funding that would be required due to the difference in dividend rate between preferred and common shares (see Note 8).
NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES
Under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," income taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable for the current year and for the impact of deferred tax liabilities and assets, which represent future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the financial statements than for tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are established using the enacted statutory tax rates and are adjusted for changes in such rates in the period of change. Earnings before income taxes consisted of the following:
The income tax provision consisted of the following:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The Company's effective income tax rate was 30.7%, 31.1% and 31.8% in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, compared to the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0%. The country mix impacts of foreign operations reduced the Company's effective tax rate to a larger degree in 2004 than the previous fiscal years: 4.1% in 2004, 3.8% in 2003 and 3.1% in 2002. The Company's higher effective tax rate in 2002 also reflected the impact of restructuring costs. Taxes impacted shareholders' equity with credits of $351 and $361 for the years ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These primarily relate to the tax effects of net investment hedges and tax benefits from the exercise of stock options.
The Company has undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of $16.75 billion at June 30, 2004, for which deferred taxes have not been provided. Such earnings are considered indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiaries. If such earnings were repatriated, additional tax expense may result, although the calculation of such additional taxes is not practicable.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were comprised of the following:
Net operating loss carryforwards were $1,398 and $1,222 at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, respectively. If unused, $299 will expire between 2005 and 2014. The remainder, totaling $1,099 at June 30, 2004, may be carried forward indefinitely.
NOTE 11 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Guarantees
In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures, the Company may provide routine indemnifications (e.g., retention of previously existing environmental, tax and employee liabilities) whose terms range in duration and often are not explicitly defined. Generally, the maximum obligation under such indemnifications is not explicitly stated and, as a result, the overall amount of these obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, historically the Company has not made significant payments for these indemnifications. The Company believes that if it were to incur a loss in any of these matters, the loss would not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In certain situations, the Company guarantees loans for suppliers and customers. The total amount of guarantees issued under such arrangements is not material.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
The Company does not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, under FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," that have a material impact on the financial statements.
Purchase Commitments
The Company has purchase commitments for materials, supplies, services and property, plant and equipment as part of the normal course of business. Due to
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
the proprietary nature of many of the Company's materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early termination. The Company does not expect potential payments under these provisions to materially affect results of operations or its financial condition in any individual year.
Operating Leases
The Company leases certain property and equipment for varying periods under operating leases. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: 2005  $186; 2006  $150; 2007  $134; 2008 - $99; 2009  $86; and $265 thereafter.
Litigation
The Company is subject to various lawsuits and claims with respect to matters such as governmental regulations, income taxes and other actions arising out of manufacturing and waste disposal practices. Accrued environmental liabilities the normal course of business. The Company is also subject to contingencies pursuant to environmental laws and regulations that in the future may require the Company to take action to correct the effects on the environment of prior for remediation and closure costs were $36 and $34 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Current year expenditures were not material.
While considerable uncertainty exists, in the opinion of management and Company counsel, the ultimate liabilities resulting from such lawsuits and claims will not materially affect the Company's financial condition.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
NOTE 12 SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company is organized into three reportable segments. These business segments, which are generally determined by the product type and end-point user benefits offered, manufacture and market products as follows:
The Company has chosen to provide supplemental data on the Fabric and Home Care, Snacks and Coffee, Health Care and Baby and Family Care businesses. The accounting policies of the operating segments are generally the same as those described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Differences from these policies and U.S. GAAP primarily reflect: income taxes, which are reflected in the business segments using estimated local statutory rates; the recording of fixed assets at historical exchange rates in certain high inflation economies; and the treatment of unconsolidated investees. Unconsolidated investees are managed as integral parts of the Company's business units for management and segment reporting purposes. Accordingly, these partially owned operations are reflected as consolidated subsidiaries in segment results, with 100% recognition of the individual income statement line items through before-tax earnings, while after-tax earnings are adjusted to reflect only the Company's ownership percentage. Entries to eliminate the individual revenues and expenses, adjusting the method of accounting to the equity method as required by U.S. GAAP, are included in Corporate.
Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities that are not reflected in the operating results used internally to measure and evaluate the operating segments, as well as eliminations to adjust management reporting principles to U.S. GAAP. Operating activities in Corporate include the results of incidental businesses managed at the corporate level along with the elimination of individual revenues and expenses generated by companies over which the Company exerts significant influence, but does not control. Operating elements also comprise certain employee benefit costs and other general corporate items. The non-operating elements include financing and investing activities. In addition, Corporate includes the historical results of certain divested businesses, including the Juice Business, which was divested in August of 2004. Corporate assets primarily include cash, investment securities, goodwill and
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
other non-current intangible assets.
The Company had net sales in the U.S. of $23,688, $21,853 and $21,198 for the years ended June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Assets in the U.S. totaled $23,687 and $23,424 as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The Company's largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for 17%, 18% and 17% of consolidated net sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These sales occurred primarily in the U.S.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
NOTE 13 QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
FINANCIAL SUMMARY (UNAUDITED)

 
Exhibit 99-6
250 East Fifth Street Post Office Box 5340 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Telephone: (513) 784-7100
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following documents of our report dated August 6, 2004, except as to Notes 1 (New Pronouncements and Reclassifications), 4 and 12, which are as of October 21, 2004, appearing in this report on Form 8-K of The Procter & Gamble Company dated October 22, 2004.
 
 
October 21, 2004


