FILE:PG/PG-8K-20050314153049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(513) 983-1100
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
      The information contained in this Form 8-K revises the classification of certain investments, along with the cash flow impacts, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for The Procter & Gamble Company and consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company"). The Company believes this change in classification, which reflects the converging interpretations of the accounting treatment of auction rate securities, is not material to its financial condition and cash flows. In addition, it has no effect on the amounts of total current assets, total assets, or operating cash flows of the Company. The reclassification in no way revises or restates the Company's Consolidated Statements of Earnings.
      The Company has reclassified its investments in auction rate securities as current investment securities. These auction rate securities, which have interest rate reset dates every 90 days or less but maturity dates greater than 90 days, were included in cash and cash equivalents in previous periods in the following amounts:
      Exhibit 99-1 contains the financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2004 conformed for the reclassification of auction rate securities as short-term investments. The financial statements, conformed for the change, will become the historical financial statements of The Procter & Gamble Company and consolidated subsidiaries for currently open and future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
      Exhibit 99-2 contains Item 1 of Procter & Gamble's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004 conformed for the reclassification of auction rate securities as short-term investments. The financial statements, conformed for the change, will become the historical financial statements of The Procter & Gamble Company and consolidated subsidiaries for currently open and future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
      Exhibit 99-3 contains Item 1 of Procter & Gamble's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2004 conformed for the reclassification of auction rate securities as short-term investments. The financial statements, conformed for the change, will become the historical financial statements of The Procter & Gamble Company and consolidated subsidiaries for currently open and future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Table of Contents
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99-1
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
{DELOITTE LOGO}
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Procter & Gamble Company:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2004 and 2003 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2004. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at June 30, 2004 and 2003 and the results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Deloitte & Touche LLP Cincinnati, Ohio
August 6, 2004, except as to Notes 1 (New Pronouncements and Reclassifications), 4 and 12, which are as of October 21, 2004
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ASSETS
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Restated for two-for-one stock split effective May 21, 2004)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Nature of Operations
The Procter & Gamble Company's (the Company) business is focused on providing consumer branded products of superior quality and value. The Company markets approximately 300 consumer products in more than 160 countries around the world. Our products are sold primarily through retail operations including mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores and drug stores.
Basis of Presentation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include The Procter & Gamble Company and its controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Investments in certain companies over which the Company exerts significant influence, but does not control the financial and operating decisions, are accounted for as equity method investments.
Use of Estimates
Preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions the Company may undertake in the future. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, consumer and trade promotion accruals, pensions, post-employment benefits, stock options, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, future cash flows associated with impairment testing for goodwill and long-lived assets, deferred tax assets, potential income tax assessments and contingencies. Actual results may ultimately differ from estimates, although management does not believe such changes would materially affect the financial statements in any individual year.
Revenue Recognition
Sales are recognized when revenue is realized or realizable and has been earned. Most revenue transactions represent sales of inventory, and the revenue recorded includes shipping and handling costs, which generally are included in the list price to the customer. The Company's policy is to recognize revenue when title to the product, ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which generally is on the date of shipment. A provision for payment discounts and product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales in the same period that the revenue is recognized.
Trade promotions, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer coupons, are offered through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales are recorded net of trade promotion spending, which is recognized as incurred, generally at the time of the sale. Most of these arrangements have terms of approximately one year. Accruals for expected payouts under these programs are included as accrued marketing and promotion in the accrued and other current liabilities line in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Cost of Products Sold
Cost of products sold primarily comprises direct materials and supplies consumed in the manufacture of product, as well as manufacturing labor and direct overhead expense necessary to acquire and convert the purchased materials and supplies into finished product. Cost of products sold also includes the cost to distribute products to customers, inbound freight costs, internal transfer costs, warehousing costs and other shipping and handling activity. Shipping and handling costs invoiced to customers are included in net sales.
Selling, General and Administrative
 
Selling, general and administrative expense primarily includes marketing expenses, including the cost of media, advertising and related costs; selling expenses; research and development costs; administrative and other indirect overhead costs; and other miscellaneous operating items.
Other Non-Operating Income, Net
Other non-operating income, net primarily includes interest and investment income and gains and losses from divestitures.
Currency Translation
Financial statements of operating subsidiaries outside the United States of America (U.S.) generally are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Adjustments to translate those statements into U.S. dollars are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI). For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies, the U.S. dollar is the functional currency. Remeasurement adjustments for financial statements in highly inflationary economies and other transactional exchange gains and losses are reflected in earnings.
Cash Flow Presentation
The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect method, which reconciles net earnings to cash flow from operating activities. These adjustments include the removal of timing differences between the occurrence of operating receipts and payments and their recognition in net earnings. The adjustments also remove from operating activities cash flows arising from investing and financing activities, which are
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
presented separately from operating activities. Cash flows from foreign currency transactions and operations are translated at an average exchange rate for the period. Cash flows from hedging activities are included in the same category as the items being hedged. Cash flows from derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges are classified as financing activities. Cash flows from other derivative instruments used to manage interest, commodity or currency exposures are classified as operating activities. Cash paid for acquisitions is classified as investing activities.
Cash Equivalents
Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents and recorded at cost.
Investments
Investment securities consist of readily-marketable debt and equity securities. These securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as trading are charged to earnings. Unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as available for sale are recorded net of tax in OCI.
Other investments that are not controlled and over which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted under the cost method.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are valued at cost, which is not in excess of current market prices. Product-related inventories are primarily maintained on the first-in, first-out method. Minor amounts of product inventories, including certain cosmetics and commodities are maintained on the last-in, first-out method. The cost of spare part inventories is maintained using the average cost method.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The cost of intangible assets with determinable useful lives is amortized to reflect the pattern of economic benefits consumed, principally on a straight-line basis over the estimated periods benefited. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles are not amortized, but are evaluated annually for impairment. Our impairment testing for goodwill is performed separately from our impairment testing of individual indefinite-lived intangibles. The Company evaluates a number of factors to determine whether an indefinite life is appropriate, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history, operating plan and the macroeconomic environment of the country in which the brand is sold. Due to the nature of the Company's business, there are a number of brand intangibles that have been determined to have indefinite lives. If it is determined that a brand intangible does not have an indefinite life, the Company's policy is to amortize such assets over the expected useful life, which generally ranges from 5 to 20 years. Patents, technology and other intangibles with contractual terms are amortized over their respective contractual lives. Other non-contractual intangible assets with determinable lives are amortized over periods ranging from 5 to 20 years.
Where certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, lives on intangible assets with determinable lives may be adjusted and an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts. The annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles is based on valuation models that incorporate internal projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost reduced by accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense is recognized over the assets' estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Machinery and equipment includes office furniture and equipment (15-year life), computer equipment and capitalized software (3 to 5-year lives) and manufacturing equipment (3 to
 
20-year lives). Buildings are depreciated over an estimated useful life of 40 years. Estimated useful lives are periodically reviewed and, where appropriate, changes are made prospectively. Where certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, asset lives may be adjusted and an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts.
Fair Values of Financial Instruments
Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. The estimated fair values of such financial instruments, including certain debt instruments, investment securities and derivatives, have been determined using market information and valuation methodologies, primarily discounted cash flow analysis. These estimates require considerable judgment in interpreting market data and changes in assumptions or estimation methods could significantly affect the fair value estimates. However, the Company does not believe any such changes would have a material impact on its financial condition or results of operations. Other financial instruments, including cash equivalents, other investments and short-term debt, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. The fair valve of long-term debt is disclosed in Note 6.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company has employee stock option plans, which are described more fully in Note 8. The Company accounts for its employee stock option plans under the intrinsic value recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations. As stock options have been issued with exercise prices equal to the market value of the underlying shares on the grant date, no compensation expense has resulted.
Had compensation expense for the plans been determined based on the fair value of the options on the grant date, consistent with SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the Company's net earnings and earnings per common share would have been as follows:
Stock Split
In March 2004, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock split effective for common and preferred shareholders of record as of May 21, 2004. The financial statements, notes and other references to share and per share data have been restated to reflect the stock split for all periods presented.
New Pronouncements and Reclassifications
No new accounting pronouncements issued or effective during the fiscal year have had or are expected to have a material impact on the financial statements. Certain reclassifications of prior years' amounts have been made to conform to the current year presentation.
The Company has reclassified its investments in auction rate securities from cash and cash equivalents to current investment securities. These auction rate securities, which have interest rate resets every 90 days or less but maturity dates of greater than 90 days, were included in cash and cash equivalents in previous periods in the amounts of $1,237 and $484 as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
Segment before-tax and after-tax earnings reflect the Company's decision to allocate the amortization of identifiable intangible assets with determinable lives from Corporate to the global business units. Other changes made to the basis of measurement of segment performance are the allocation methodologies of certain overhead items managed by the Company's Global Business Services organization. Certain other immaterial changes were made to the cost allocations from Corporate to the business segments. These changes affect the disclosure of segment results only.
NOTE 2 RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
In 1999, concurrent with a reorganization of its operations into product-based Global Business Units, the Company initiated a multi-year restructuring program. Costs included enrollment reductions, manufacturing consolidations and portfolio choices to scale back or discontinue under-performing businesses and initiatives. Total restructuring program charges were $751 in 2003, including $351 in separations related to approximately 5,000 people, $190 in asset write-downs and $87 in accelerated depreciation related to long-lived assets that were taken out of service prior to the end of their normal service period. Total restructuring program charges were $958 in 2002, including $393 in separations related to approximately 7,400 people, $208 in asset write-downs and $135 in accelerated depreciation.
At June 30, 2003, the program was substantially complete with a remaining reserve of $335. Substantially all of this liability was settled through cash payments by the end of 2004.
The Company continues to undertake projects to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing streamlining and work force rationalization, as part of its normal operations.
NOTE 3 ACQUISITIONS AND SPIN-OFF
Wella Acquisition
On September 2, 2003, the Company acquired a controlling interest in Wella AG (Wella). Through a stock purchase agreement with the majority shareholders of Wella and a tender offer made on the remaining shares, the Company acquired a total of 81% of Wella's outstanding shares, including 99% of Wella's outstanding voting class shares. In June 2004, the Company and Wella entered into a Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement (the Domination Agreement) pursuant to which the Company is entitled to exercise full operating control and receive 100% of the future earnings of Wella. As consideration for the Domination Agreement, the Company will pay the holders of the remaining outstanding shares of Wella a guaranteed perpetual annual dividend payment. Alternatively, the remaining Wella shareholders may elect to tender their shares to the Company for an agreed price. The fair value of the total guaranteed annual dividend payments is $1.11 billion, which approximates the cost if all remaining shares were tendered. Because the Domination Agreement transfers operational and economic control of the remaining outstanding shares to the Company, it has been accounted for as an acquisition of the remaining shares, with a liability recorded equal to the fair value of the guaranteed payments. Because of the tender feature, the liability is recorded as a current liability in the accrued and other liabilities
 
line of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Payments made under the guaranteed annual dividend provisions will be allocated between interest expense and a reduction of the liability, as appropriate. The total purchase price for Wella, including acquisition costs, was $6.27 billion based on exchange rates at the acquisition dates. It was funded with a combination of cash, debt and the liability recorded under the Domination Agreement
The acquisition of Wella, with over $3 billion in annual net sales, gives the Company access to the professional hair care category plus greater scale and scope in hair care, hair colorants, cosmetics and fragrance products, while providing potential for significant synergies. The operating results of the Wella business are reported in the Company's Beauty Care business segment beginning September 2, 2003.
The following table provides pro forma results of operations for the years ended June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, as if Wella had been acquired as of the beginning of each fiscal year presented. The pro forma results include certain adjustments, including adjustments to convert Wella's historical financial information from International Accounting Standards (IAS) into U.S. GAAP, estimated interest impacts from funding of the acquisition and estimated amortization of definite-lived intangible assets. However, pro forma results do not include any anticipated cost savings or other effects of the integration of Wella. Accordingly, such amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred if the acquisition had occurred on the dates indicated or that may result in the future.
The Company is in the process of finalizing independent appraisals for certain assets to assist management in allocating the purchase price to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This may result in adjustments to the carrying values of Wella's recorded assets and liabilities, including the amount of any residual value allocated to goodwill. The Company is also completing its analysis of collaboration plans that may result in additional purchase price allocation adjustments. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price included in the current period balance sheet is based on the current best estimates of management and is subject to revision based on final determination of fair values and collaboration plans. The Company anticipates the valuations and other studies will be completed prior to the anniversary date of the acquisition. The preliminary allocation of the total purchase price of Wella resulted in the following condensed balance sheet of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
 
The Wella acquisition resulted in $5.86 billion in goodwill, all of which was allocated to the Beauty Care segment, and $1.71 billion in total intangible assets acquired with $1.15 billion allocated to trademarks with indefinite lives. The remaining $556 of acquired intangibles have determinable useful lives and were assigned to trademarks of $267, patents and technology of $10, professional customer relationships of $214 and license and other intangible assets of $65. Total intangible assets acquired with determinable lives have a weighted-average life of 11 years (8 years for trademarks, 5 years for patents and technology, 15 years for professional customer relationships and 23 years for license and other intangible assets).
China Venture
On June 18, 2004, the Company purchased the remaining 20% stake in its China venture from its partner, Hutchison Whampoa China Ltd. (Hutchison), giving the Company full ownership in its operations in China. The net purchase price was $1.85 billion, which is the purchase price of $2.00 billion net of minority interest and related obligations that were eliminated as a result of the transaction. The acquisition was funded by debt. The fair value of the incremental individual assets and liabilities acquired approximates current book value. Accordingly, the purchase price was recorded as goodwill, which was allocated to multiple business segments.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Clairol Acquisition
On November 16, 2001, the Company completed the acquisition of the Clairol business from The Bristol-Myers Squibb Company for approximately $5.03 billion in cash, financed primarily with debt. The operating results of the Clairol business are reported in the Company's Beauty Care segment beginning November 16, 2001.
The following table provides pro forma results of operations for the year ended June 30, 2002 as if Clairol had been acquired as of the beginning of the fiscal year. Pro forma information for 2004 and 2003 is not presented as the results of Clairol are included with those of the Company for the entire year. The pro forma results include adjustments for estimated interest expense on acquisition funding and amortization of definite-lived intangible assets. However, pro forma results do not include any anticipated cost savings or other effects of the integration of Clairol. Accordingly, such amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred if the acquisition had closed on the dates indicated or that may result in the future.
Jif and Crisco Spin-off
On May 31, 2002, the Jif peanut butter and Crisco shortening brands were spun off to the Company's shareholders and subsequently merged into The J.M. Smucker Company (Smucker). The Company's shareholders received one new common Smucker share for every 50 shares held in the Company, totaling 26 million shares, or approximately $900 in market value. This transaction was not included in the results of operations, since a spin-off to the Company's shareholders is recorded at net book value, or $150, in a manner similar to dividends.
Other minor business purchases and intangible asset acquisitions totaled $384, $61 and $446 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
NOTE 4 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The change in net carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 was allocated by reportable business segment as follows:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
For the year ended June 30, 2004, goodwill increased primarily due to the acquisition of Wella and the purchase of the remaining stake in the China venture.
Identifiable intangible assets as of June 30, 2004 and 2003 were comprised of:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The amortization of intangible assets for the years ended June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $165, $100 and $97, respectively. Estimated amortization expense over the next five years is as follows: 2005  $171; 2006  $169; 2007  $119; 2008  $106; and 2009  $104. Such estimates do not reflect the impact of future foreign exchange rate changes.
NOTE 5 SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Selected components of current and non-current liabilities were as follows:
Selected Operating Expenses
Research and development costs are charged to earnings as incurred and were $1,802 in 2004, $1,665 in 2003 and $1,601 in 2002. Advertising costs are charged to earnings as incurred and were $5,504 in 2004, $4,373 in 2003 and $3,773 in 2002. Both of these are components of selling, general and administrative expense.
NOTE 6 SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The weighted average short-term interest rates were 1.5% and 3.6% as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The rate decrease reflected an increase in commercial paper within short-term debt.
Long-term weighted average interest rates were 4.0% and 3.7% as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and included the effects of related interest rate swaps discussed in Note 7.
The fair value of the long-term debt was $13,168 and $12,396 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Long-term debt maturities during the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2005  $1,518; 2006  $2,625; 2007  $1,433; 2008  $972; and 2009  $1,150. The Company has no material obligations that are secured.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
NOTE 7 RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, the Company is exposed to market risks, such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity pricing. To manage the volatility related to these exposures, the Company evaluates exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of logical exposure netting. For the remaining exposures, the Company enters into various derivative transactions. Such derivative transactions, which are executed in accordance with the Company's policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices, are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended and interpreted. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes.
At inception, the Company formally designates and documents the financial instrument as a hedge of a specific underlying exposure. The Company formally assesses, both at inception and at least quarterly on an ongoing basis, whether the financial instruments used in hedging transactions are effective at offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposure. Fluctuations in the derivative value generally are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the exposures being hedged. This offset is driven by the high degree of effectiveness between the exposure being hedged and the hedging instrument. Any ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings.
Credit Risk
The Company has established strict counterparty credit guidelines and normally enters into transactions with investment grade financial institutions. Counterparty exposures are monitored daily and downgrades in credit rating are reviewed on a timely basis. Credit risk arising from the inability of a counterparty to meet the terms of the Company's financial instrument contracts generally is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparty's obligations exceed the obligations of the Company. The Company does not expect to incur material credit losses on its risk management or other financial instruments.
Interest Rate Management
The Company's policy is to manage interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. To manage this risk in a cost efficient manner, the Company enters into interest rate swaps in which the Company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount.
Interest rate swaps that meet specific conditions under SFAS No. 133 are accounted for as fair value hedges. Changes in the fair value of both the hedging instruments and the underlying debt obligations are immediately recognized in earnings as equal and offsetting gains and losses in the interest expense component of the income statement. The fair value of the Company's interest rate swap agreements was a net asset of $45 and $322 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. All existing fair value hedges are 100% effective. As a result, there is no impact to earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Foreign Currency Management
The Company manufactures and sells its products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The purpose of the Company's foreign currency hedging program is to reduce the risk caused by short-term changes in exchange rates.
The Company primarily utilizes forward exchange contracts and purchased options with maturities of less than 18 months and currency swaps with maturities up to
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
5 years. These instruments are intended to offset the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on forecasted sales, inventory purchases, intercompany royalties and intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies and are therefore accounted for as cash flow hedges. The fair value of these instruments at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003 was $47 and $27 in assets and $140 and $92 in liabilities, respectively. The effective portion of the changes in fair value for these instruments are reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line item and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. The ineffective portion, which is not material for any year presented, is immediately recognized in earnings.
Certain instruments used by the Company for foreign exchange risk do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. In these cases, the change in value of the instruments is designed to offset the foreign currency impact of intercompany financing transactions, income from international operations and other balance sheet revaluations. The fair value of these instruments at June 30, 2004 and 2003 was $71 and $113 in assets and $26 and $26 in liabilities, respectively. The gain or loss on these instruments is immediately recognized in earnings. The net impact of such instruments, included in selling, general and administrative expense, was $80, $264 and $50 of gains in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, which substantially offset foreign currency transaction losses of the items being hedged.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Net Investment Hedging
The Company hedges certain net investment positions in major currencies. To accomplish this, the Company borrows directly in foreign currency and designates a portion of foreign currency debt as a hedge of net investments in foreign subsidiaries. In addition, certain foreign currency swaps are designated as hedges of the Company's related foreign net investments. Under SFAS No. 133, changes in the fair value of these instruments are immediately recognized in OCI, to offset the change in the value of the net investment being hedged. Currency effects of these hedges reflected in OCI were a $348 and $418 after-tax loss in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Accumulated net balances were a $586 after-tax loss in 2004 and a $238 after-tax loss in 2003.
Commodity Price Management
Raw materials used by the Company are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. To manage the volatility related to certain anticipated inventory purchases, the Company uses futures and options with maturities generally less than one year and swap contracts with maturities up to five years. These market instruments are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133. Accordingly, the mark-to-market gain or loss on qualifying hedges is reported in OCI and reclassified into cost of products sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Qualifying cash flow hedges currently recorded in OCI are not considered material. The mark-to-market gain or loss on non-qualifying, excluded and ineffective portions of hedges is immediately recognized in cost of products sold. Commodity hedging activity was not material to the Company's financial statements for any of the years presented.
NOTE 8 EARNINGS PER SHARE AND STOCK OPTIONS
Net Earnings Per Common Share
Net earnings less preferred dividends (net of related tax benefits) are divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year to calculate basic net earnings per common share. Diluted net earnings per common share are calculated to give effect to stock options and assuming conversion of preferred stock (see Note 9).
Net earnings and common share balances used to calculate basic and diluted net earnings per share were as follows:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company has a primary stock-based compensation plan under which stock options are granted annually to key managers and directors with exercise prices equal to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. Grants were made under plans approved by shareholders in 1992, 2001 and 2003. Grants issued since September 2002 are vested after three years and have a ten-year life. Grants issued from July 1998 through August 2002 are vested after three years and have a fifteen-year life, while grants issued prior to July 1998 are vested after one year and have a ten-year life. The Company also makes other minor grants to employees, for which vesting terms and option lives are not substantially different.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Had the provision of SFAS No. 123 expensing been applied, the Company's net earnings and earnings per common share would have been impacted as summarized in the discussion of the Company's stock-based compensation accounting policy in Note 1. In calculating the impact for options granted, the Company has estimated the fair value of each grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Assumptions are evaluated and revised, as necessary, to reflect market conditions and experience. The following assumptions were used:
The following table summarizes stock option activity during 2004, 2003 and 2002:
Stock options outstanding at June 30, 2004 were in the following exercise price ranges:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Stock options exercisable at June 30, 2004 were in the following exercise price ranges:
The Company repurchases common shares to mitigate the dilutive impact of options. Beyond that, the Company may make additional discretionary purchases based on cash availability, market trends and other factors.
In limited cases, the Company also issues stock appreciation rights, generally in countries where stock options are not permitted by local governments. The obligations and associated compensation expense are adjusted for changes in intrinsic value. The impact of these adjustments is not material.
NOTE 9 POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN
The Company offers various postretirement benefits to its employees.
Defined Contribution Retirement Plans
The most prevalent employee benefit plans offered are defined contribution plans, which cover substantially all employees in the U.S., as well as employees in certain other countries. These plans are fully funded.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Under the defined contribution plans, the Company generally makes contributions to participants based on individual base salaries and years of service. In the U.S., the contribution is set annually. Historically, the Company has contributed approximately 15% of total participants' annual wages and salaries.
The Company maintains The Procter & Gamble Profit Sharing Trust (Trust) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) to provide a portion of the funding for the U.S. defined contribution plan, as well as other retiree benefits. Operating details of the ESOP are provided at the end of this Note. The fair value of the ESOP Series A shares reduces the Company's cash contribution required to fund the U.S. defined contribution plan. Defined contribution expense, which approximates the Company's cash contribution to the plan that is funded in the subsequent year, was $274, $286 and $279 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Defined Benefit Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits
Certain other employees, primarily outside the U.S., are covered by local defined benefit pension plans as well as other retiree benefit plans.
The Company also provides certain other retiree benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, for substantially all U.S. employees who become eligible for these benefits when they meet minimum age and service requirements. Generally, the health care plans require cost sharing with retirees and pay a stated percentage of expenses, reduced by deductibles and other coverages. These benefits primarily are funded by ESOP Series B shares, as well as certain other assets contributed by the Company.
The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 was signed into law on December 8, 2003. This Act introduces a Medicare prescription-drug benefit beginning in 2006 as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care plans that provide a benefit at least "actuarially equivalent" to the Medicare benefit. Management has concluded that the Company's plans are at least "actuarially equivalent" to the Medicare benefit and, accordingly, has included the federal subsidy from the Act in the normal year-end measurement process for other retiree benefit plans. The impact is a reduction to the benefit obligation of $195 as of June 30, 2004. The impact to net periodic pension cost and to benefits paid in future years is not expected to be material.
Obligation and Funded Status. The Company uses a June 30 measurement date for its defined benefit retirement plans and other retiree benefit plans. The following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of these plans:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The underfunding of pension benefits is primarily a function of the different funding incentives that exist outside of the U.S. In certain countries where the Company has major operations, there are no legal requirements or financial incentives provided to companies to pre-fund pension obligations. In these instances, benefit payments are typically paid directly from the Company's cash as they become due, rather than through the creation of a separate pension fund.
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit retirement plans was $3,822 and $2,850 at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, respectively. Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of June 30, consist of the following:
     Net Periodic Benefit Cost. Components of the net periodic benefit cost were as follows:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Assumptions. The Company determines its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis. These assumptions are weighted to reflect each country that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. The weighted-average assumptions for the defined benefit and other retiree benefit calculations, as well as assumed health care cost trend rates, for the years ended June 30, are as follows:
Several factors are considered in developing the estimate for the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets. For the defined benefit plans, these include historical rates of return of broad equity and bond indices and projected long-term rates of return from pension investment consultants. The expected long-term rates of return for plan assets are 8%-9% for equities and 5%-6% bonds. The rate of return on other retiree benefit plan assets, comprised primarily of Company stock, is based on the long-term projected return of 9.5% and reflects the historical pattern of favorable returns on the Company's stock relative to broader market indices (e.g., S&P 500).
Assumed health care cost trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the other retiree benefit plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Plan Assets. The Company's target asset allocation for the year ending June 30, 2005 and actual asset allocation by asset category as of June 30, 2004, and 2003, are as follows:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The Company's investment objective for defined benefit plan assets is to meet the plans' benefit obligations, while minimizing the potential for future required Company plan contributions. The investment strategies focus on asset class diversification, liquidity to meet benefit payments and an appropriate balance of long-term investment return and risk. Target ranges for asset allocations are determined by matching the actuarial projections of the plans' future liabilities and benefit payments with expected long-term rates of return on the assets, taking into account investment return volatility and correlations across asset classes. Plan assets are diversified across several investment managers and are generally invested in liquid funds that are selected to track broad market equity and bond indices. Investment risk is carefully controlled with plan assets rebalanced to target allocations on a periodic basis and continual monitoring of investment managers performance relative to the investment guidelines established with each investment manager.
Cash Flows. Management's best estimate of its cash requirements for the defined benefit plans and other retiree benefit plans for the year ending June 30, 2005 is $237 and $20, respectively. For the defined benefit plans, this is comprised of expected benefit payments of $71, which are paid directly to participants of unfunded plans from employer assets, as well as expected contributions to funded plans of $166. For other retiree benefit plans, this is comprised of expected contributions that will be used directly for benefit payments. Expected contributions are dependent on many variables, including the variability of the market value of the assets as compared to the obligation and other market or regulatory conditions. In addition, the Company takes into consideration its business investment opportunities and resulting cash requirements. Accordingly, actual funding may differ greatly from current estimates.
Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which include payments funded from the Company's assets, as discussed above, as well as payments paid from the plans are as follows:
Employee Stock Ownership Plan
The Company maintains the ESOP to provide funding for certain employee benefits discussed in the preceding paragraphs.
The ESOP borrowed $1.00 billion in 1989 and the proceeds were used to purchase Series A ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the defined contribution retirement plan in the U.S. Principal and interest requirements were paid by the Trust from dividends on the preferred shares and from advances from the Company. The final payment for the original borrowing of $1.00 billion was made in 2004 and the remaining debt of the ESOP consists of amounts owed to the Company. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was $0.93 per share. The liquidation value is $6.82 per share.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
In 1991, the ESOP borrowed an additional $1.00 billion. The proceeds were used to purchase Series B ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of retiree health care benefits. These shares are considered plan assets, net of the associated debt, of the Other Retiree Benefits plan discussed above. Debt service requirements are funded by preferred stock dividends and cash contributions from the Company. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was $1.02 per share. The liquidation value is $12.96 per share.
As permitted by Statement of Position (SOP) 93-6, "Employers Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans," the Company has elected, where applicable, to continue its practices, which are based on SOP 76-3, "Accounting Practices for Certain Employee Stock Ownership Plans." ESOP debt, which is guaranteed by the Company, is recorded as debt (see Note 6). Preferred shares issued to the ESOP are offset by the reserve for ESOP debt retirement in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity. Interest incurred on the ESOP debt is recorded as interest expense. Dividends on all preferred shares, net of related tax benefits, are charged to retained earnings.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
As required by SOP 76-3, the preferred shares of the ESOP are allocated based on debt service requirements, net of advances made by the Company to the Trust. The number of preferred shares outstanding at June 30, was as follows:
For purposes of calculating diluted net earnings per common share, the preferred shares held by the ESOP are considered converted from inception. Diluted net earnings are calculated assuming that all preferred shares are converted to common, and therefore are adjusted to reflect the incremental ESOP funding that would be required due to the difference in dividend rate between preferred and common shares (see Note 8).
NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES
Under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," income taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable for the current year and for the impact of deferred tax liabilities and assets, which represent future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the financial statements than for tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are established using the enacted statutory tax rates and are adjusted for changes in such rates in the period of change. Earnings before income taxes consisted of the following:
The income tax provision consisted of the following:
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
The Company's effective income tax rate was 30.7%, 31.1% and 31.8% in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, compared to the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0%. The country mix impacts of foreign operations reduced the Company's effective tax rate to a larger degree in 2004 than the previous fiscal years: 4.1% in 2004, 3.8% in 2003 and 3.1% in 2002. The Company's higher effective tax rate in 2002 also reflected the impact of restructuring costs. Taxes impacted shareholders' equity with credits of $351 and $361 for the years ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These primarily relate to the tax effects of net investment hedges and tax benefits from the exercise of stock options.
The Company has undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of $16.75 billion at June 30, 2004, for which deferred taxes have not been provided. Such earnings are considered indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiaries. If such earnings were repatriated, additional tax expense may result, although the calculation of such additional taxes is not practicable.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were comprised of the following:
Net operating loss carryforwards were $1,398 and $1,222 at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, respectively. If unused, $299 will expire between 2005 and 2014. The remainder, totaling $1,099 at June 30, 2004, may be carried forward indefinitely.
NOTE 11 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Guarantees
In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures, the Company may provide routine indemnifications (e.g., retention of previously existing environmental, tax and employee liabilities) whose terms range in duration and often are not explicitly defined. Generally, the maximum obligation under such indemnifications is not explicitly stated and, as a result, the overall amount of these obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, historically the Company has not made significant payments for these indemnifications. The Company believes that if it were to incur a loss in any of these matters, the loss would not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In certain situations, the Company guarantees loans for suppliers and customers. The total amount of guarantees issued under such arrangements is not material.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
The Company does not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, under FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," that have a material impact on the financial statements.
Purchase Commitments
The Company has purchase commitments for materials, supplies, services and property, plant and equipment as part of the normal course of business. Due to
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
the proprietary nature of many of the Company's materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early termination. The Company does not expect potential payments under these provisions to materially affect results of operations or its financial condition in any individual year.
Operating Leases
The Company leases certain property and equipment for varying periods under operating leases. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: 2005  $186; 2006  $150; 2007  $134; 2008 - $99; 2009  $86; and $265 thereafter.
Litigation
The Company is subject to various lawsuits and claims with respect to matters such as governmental regulations, income taxes and other actions arising out of manufacturing and waste disposal practices. Accrued environmental liabilities the normal course of business. The Company is also subject to contingencies pursuant to environmental laws and regulations that in the future may require the Company to take action to correct the effects on the environment of prior for remediation and closure costs were $36 and $34 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Current year expenditures were not material.
While considerable uncertainty exists, in the opinion of management and Company counsel, the ultimate liabilities resulting from such lawsuits and claims will not materially affect the Company's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
NOTE 12 SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company is organized into three reportable segments. These business segments, which are generally determined by the product type and end-point user benefits offered, manufacture and market products as follows:
The Company has chosen to provide supplemental data on the Fabric and Home Care, Snacks and Coffee, Health Care and Baby and Family Care businesses. The accounting policies of the operating segments are generally the same as those described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Differences from these policies and U.S. GAAP primarily reflect: income taxes, which are reflected in the business segments using estimated local statutory rates; the recording of fixed assets at historical exchange rates in certain high inflation economies; and the treatment of unconsolidated investees. Unconsolidated investees are managed as integral parts of the Company's business units for management and segment reporting purposes. Accordingly, these partially owned operations are reflected as consolidated subsidiaries in segment results, with 100% recognition of the individual income statement line items through before-tax earnings with eliminations to adjust to U.S. GAAP included in Corporate. In determining after-tax earnings, we eliminate the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to minority interest, and apply statutory tax rates, with adjustments to arrive at the Company's effective tax rate in Corporate.
Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities that are not reflected in the operating results used internally to measure and evaluate the operating segments, as well as eliminations to adjust management reporting principles to U.S. GAAP. Operating activities in Corporate include the results of incidental businesses managed at the corporate level along with the elimination of individual revenues and expenses generated by companies over which the Company exerts significant influence, but does not control. Operating elements also comprise certain employee benefit costs and other general corporate items. The non-operating elements include financing and investing activities. In addition, Corporate includes the historical results of certain divested businesses, including the Juice Business, which was divested in August of 2004. Corporate assets primarily include cash, investment securities, goodwill and
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
other non-current intangible assets.
The Company had net sales in the U.S. of $23,688, $21,853 and $21,198 for the years ended June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Assets in the U.S. totaled $23,687 and $23,424 as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The Company's largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for 17%, 18% and 17% of consolidated net sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These sales occurred primarily in the U.S.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
NOTE 13 QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Millions of dollars except per share amounts)
FINANCIAL SUMMARY (UNAUDITED)

 
Exhibit 99-2
PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Item 1. Financial Statements
The Consolidated Statements of Earnings of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries for the three months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2004 and June 30, 2004, and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003 follow. In the opinion of management, these unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods reported. However, such financial statements may not be indicative necessarily of annual results.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
Amounts in millions
(1) The Company reclassified its investments in auction rate securities as current investment securities. These auction rate securities, for which interest rates reset in less than 90 days but the maturity date is greater than 90 days, were included in cash and cash equivalents before the reclassification in the amounts of $1,422 and $1,237 as of September 30, 2004 and June 30, 2004, respectively.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
(1) The Company reclassified its investments in auction rate securities as current investment securities. These auction rate securities, for which interest rates reset in less than 90 days but the maturity date is greater than 90 days, were included in cash and cash equivalents before the reclassification.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
     The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:
     Amounts in millions

 
Exhibit 99-3
PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Item 1. Financial Statements
The Consolidated Statements of Earnings of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries (the Company) for the three and six months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004, and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the six months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 follow. In the opinion of management, these unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods reported. However, such financial statements may not be indicative necessarily of annual results.
Amounts in millions except per share amounts
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
(1) The Company reclassified its investments in auction rate securities as current investment securities. These auction rate securities, for which interest rates reset in less than 90 days but the maturity date is greater than 90 days, were included in cash and cash equivalents before the reclassification in the amounts of $1,275 and $1,237 as of December 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004, respectively.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
(1) The Company reclassified its investments in auction rate securities as current investment securities. These auction rate securities, for which interest rates reset in less than 90 days but the maturity date is greater than 90 days, were included in cash and cash equivalents before the reclassification.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
The increase in goodwill from June 30, 2004 is primarily due to the completed allocation of the purchase price relating to the September 2003 acquisition of Wella AG and translation impacts. The Company finalized the allocation of Wella purchase price to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In addition, the Company completed its analysis of collaboration plans.
 
        Identifiable intangible assets as of December 31, 2004 are comprised of (amounts in millions):
Amortizable intangible assets consist principally of patents, technology and trademarks. The non-amortizable intangible assets consist primarily of certain trademarks.
The amortization of intangible assets for the three and six months ended December 31, 2004 is $51 million and $99 million, respectively.
 
Amounts in millions except per share data
     The assumptions used to calculate the fair value of options granted are evaluated and revised, as necessary, to reflect market conditions and experience.
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS 123(R)). This Statement revises SFAS No. 123 by eliminating the option to account for employee stock options under APB No. 25 and generally requires companies to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of those awards (the "fair-value-based" method). The Company plans to adopt SFAS 123(R) on July 1, 2005 using the modified retrospective method, whereby all prior periods will be adjusted to give effect to the fair-value-based method of accounting for awards granted in fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 1995. The impact of adopting SFAS 123(R) will be consistent with the impact previously disclosed pursuant to the pro forma disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123.
 
     The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:
In 2005, the expected return on plan assets is 7.2% and 9.5% for defined benefit and other retiree benefit plans, respectively.
 

 
Exhibit 99-4
250 East Fifth Street Post Office Box 5340 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Telephone: (513) 784-7100
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following documents of our report dated August 6, 2004, except as to Notes 1 (New Pronouncements and Reclassifications), 4, and 12, which are as of October 21, 2004, relating to the consolidated financial statements of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries, appearing in this Current Report on Form 8-K of The Procter & Gamble Company for the year ended June 30, 2004.
 
 
March 14, 2005


