FILE:PG/PG-8K-20051102164828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (513) 983-1100
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
     As disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2005, The Procter and Gamble Company ("the Company", "we") adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) SFAS 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS 123 (R)) effective July 1, 2005 which requires that all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock options, be accounted for using a fair-value-based method. The Company has elected to adopt SFAS 123(R) using the modified retrospective method under which prior years' results will be revised to give effect to the value of options granted in fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 1995.
     In addition, the Company elected to change its method of accounting for Treasury Stock. The Company previously accounted for share repurchases as if the Treasury Stock was constructively retired by reducing Common Stock and Retained Earnings within Shareholders' Equity. Our new method of accounting will present Treasury Stock as a separate component of Shareholders' Equity. We believe that our new accounting method is preferable as it more closely depicts the underlying intent of the share repurchases.
     The Company is providing this Form 8-K to present only those sections in its Form 10-K filing for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, that are conformed for the adoption of the accounting changes described above. For reference, the Company has included the entire text of the affected sections. Other than as presented here, the sections of the Form 10-K for year ended June 30, 2005 remain as previously filed. This Form 8-K does not purport to provide an update or a discussion of any other developments at the Company subsequent to the original Form 10-K filing.
     These financial statements, conformed for the changes, will become the historical financial statements of The Procter & Gamble Company and consolidated subsidiaries for currently open and future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99-1 Revised Management's Discussion and Analysis 1 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries TABLE OF CONTENTS MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Overview.............................................. 2 Results of Operations................................. 10 Segment Results....................................... 16 Financial Condition................................... 23 Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates......... 30 Other Information..................................... 35 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS As disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2005, The Procter and Gamble Company ("the Company", "we") adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) SFAS 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS 123 (R)) effective July 1, 2005 which requires that all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock options, be accounted for using a fair-value-based method. The Company has elected to adopt SFAS 123(R) using the modified retrospective method under which prior years' results will be revised to give effect to the value of options granted in fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 1995. In addition, the Company elected to change its method of accounting for Treasury Stock. The Company previously accounted for share repurchases as if the Treasury Stock was constructively retired by reducing Common Stock and Retained Earnings within Shareholders' Equity. Our new method of accounting will present Treasury Stock as a separate component of Shareholders' Equity. We believe that our new accounting method is preferable as it more closely depicts the underlying intent of the share repurchases. A summary of the changes in the Company's financial statements as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123(R) and changing its method of accounting for Treasury Stock is provided in Note 1. This MD&A has been updated to reflect the Company's revised results to conform to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R); the change in accounting for Treasury Stock had no impact on this MD&A.
2 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries The purpose of this discussion is to provide an understanding of P&G's financial results and condition by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year to year. Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is organized in the following sections: - - Overview of the Company and summary of results for the fiscal year - - Results of operations - - Segment results - - Financial condition - - Significant accounting policies and estimates - - Other information Throughout MD&A, we refer to measures used by management to evaluate performance including unit volume growth, net outside sales and after-tax profit. We also refer to organic sales growth (net sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange), free cash flow and free cash flow productivity, which are not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The explanation of these measures at the end of MD&A provides more details. Management also uses certain market share estimates to evaluate performance relative to competition - despite limitations on the availability and comparability of share information. References to market share in MD&A are based on a combination of vendor-reported consumption and market size data, as well as internal estimates. OVERVIEW P&G's business is focused on providing branded products of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world's consumers. We believe this will result in leadership sales, profits and value creation, allowing employees, shareholders and the communities in which we operate to prosper. Procter & Gamble markets over 300 branded products in more than 160 countries. We have operations in over 80 countries through our Market Development Organization (MDO). The MDO includes dedicated retail customer, trade channel and country-specific teams that work to build our brands in local markets. It is organized along seven geographic areas: North America, Western Europe, Northeast Asia, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa, Greater China and ASEAN/Australasia/India. Throughout MD&A, we reference business results in developing markets, which we define as the aggregate of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa, Greater China and
3 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries ASEAN/Australasia/India. Our products are sold primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores and drug stores. We have also expanded our presence in "high frequency stores," the neighborhood stores which serve many consumers in developing markets. We compete in multiple product categories and have three Global Business Units (GBUs): P&G Beauty, P&G Family Health and P&G Household Care. We manage and report business and financial results on this basis. Each GBU and the MDO is led by a Vice Chair, all of whom report to the Chief Executive Officer. In July, 2005 we changed the names of the GBUs. Beauty Care was renamed P&G Beauty; Health, Baby & Family Care changed to P&G Family Health; and Household Care was renamed P&G Household Care. These changes have no impact on the composition or historical results of the GBUs. The following charts provide net sales and net earnings by GBU as a percentage of total Company results, excluding net sales and earnings held in Corporate, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. Please see the discussion on Corporate in the Segment Results discussion and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 2005 Net Sales (by GBU)
PG Beauty 34% PG Family Health 34% PG Household Care 32%
2005 Net Earnings (by GBU)
PG Beauty 38% PG Family Health 29% PG Household Care 33%
4 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Strategic Focus P&G is focused on strategies that we believe are right for the long-term health of the Company and that will increase returns for our shareholders. The Company's financial targets are (excluding the impacts of the pending Gillette acquisition): - - Sales growth of 4% to 6% excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates from year-over-year comparisons. On average, we expect approximately 2% of sales growth to come from market growth; 1% to 3% from the combination of market share growth, expansion to new geographies and new business creation; and the remaining 1% to come from smaller, "tack-on" acquisitions to access markets or complement current business portfolios. - - Diluted net earnings per share growth of 10% or better. - - Free cash flow productivity of 90% or greater (defined as the ratio of operating cash flow less capital expenditures divided by net earnings). In order to achieve these targets, we focus on our core strengths of branding, innovation, go-to-market capability and scale against the following growth areas: - - Driving our core businesses of Baby Care, Fabric Care, Feminine Care and Hair Care into stronger global leadership positions. - - Growing our leading brands in our biggest markets with our largest customers. - - Investing in faster-growing businesses with higher gross margins that are less asset-intensive, primarily in the Beauty and Health Care businesses. - - Building on opportunities in select developing markets and with lower-income consumers.
5 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Sustainability To sustain consistent and reliable sales and earnings growth in line with our financial targets, we have identified four key enablers: - - Building a diversified and balanced portfolio consisting of foundation businesses and higher growth businesses. Foundation businesses include many of our established product categories - Fabric Care, Home Care, Baby Care, Family Care, Snacks and Coffee. These businesses provide a base for steady growth, strong operating cash flows and an excellent training ground for future leaders. We are focused on expanding these categories through innovative products, offering our brands in more parts of the world and tailoring our products to meet the needs of more consumers (including lower-income consumers). To complement the steady growth of foundation businesses, we are expanding our portfolio of Beauty and Health brands. These businesses generally have higher gross margins and lower capital requirements than the balance of the Company's portfolio. Over the past several years, we have increased the size of our Beauty and Health businesses by growing base brands and through acquisitions, including Clairol in 2002 and Wella in 2004. Both of these acquisitions expanded our presence in the retail and professional hair care categories. In January of 2005, we announced our agreement to acquire The Gillette Company, which will further expand our portfolio of Beauty and Health brands. Gillette is a leader in several global product categories including blades and razors, oral care and batteries. Pending regulatory approval, we expect this acquisition to close in Fall of 2005. We expect our portfolio of Beauty and Health brands to continue to provide a disproportionate percentage of growth for the Company. - - Investing in innovation and capability to reach more of the world's consumers with quality, affordable products. This includes expanding our presence in markets and reaching more consumers where we are under-represented including lower-income and value-conscious consumers. - - Leveraging the Company's organizational structure to drive clear focus, accountability and improved go-to-market capability. We have an organizational structure that works together to leverage our knowledge and scale at the global level with a deep understanding of the consumer and customer at the local level. - - The GBUs leverage their consumer understanding to develop the overall strategy for our brands. They identify common consumer needs, develop new products and build our brands through effective marketing innovations. - - The MDO develops go-to-market plans at the local level, leveraging their understanding of the local consumer and customer. The MDO is focused on winning the "first moment of truth" - when a consumer stands in front of the shelf and chooses a product from
6 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries among many competitive offerings. The GBU is focused on winning the "second moment of truth" - when the consumer uses the product and evaluates how well the product meets his or her expectations. - Global Business Services (GBS) operates as the "back office" for the GBU and MDO organizations, providing world-class technology, processes and standard data tools to better understand the business and better serve consumers and customers. GBS personnel or highly efficient and effective third party partners provide these services. - - Focusing relentlessly to improve costs and generate cash. Each GBU is evaluated on their ability to support the Company's financial goals. This includes an evaluation of net sales growth, earnings growth and profit margin expansion. GBUs are also evaluated on their ability to generate cash, for example, by increasing capacity utilization and meeting capital spending targets. Summary of 2005 Results For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, we delivered our fourth consecutive year of sales growth, earnings per share growth and free cash flow productivity at or above our targets. - - Net sales increased 10%. Net sales increased 8% excluding the impact of foreign exchange - above our target of 4% to 6%. Organic sales, which excludes the impacts of acquisition, divestitures and foreign exchange, also increased 8%. - Every GBU delivered volume growth rates of high-single digits or greater. Within the MDO, every geographic region posted volume growth, led by developing markets up high-teens. - We increased our overall market share in categories representing approximately two-thirds of the Company's net sales. We increased market share in each of our core businesses of Baby Care, Fabric Care, Feminine Care and Hair Care. - - Diluted net earnings per share increased 15% due primarily to volume growth. - - Cash flow from operating activities was $8.68 billion. Free cash flow productivity of 94% was above our target of 90%.
7 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Market Overview and Challenges Our market environment is highly competitive, with both global and local competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other branded products, as well as retailer and private-label brands. Additionally, many of the product segments in which we compete are differentiated by price (referred to as premium, mid-tier and value-tier products). Generally speaking, we compete with premium and mid-tier products and are well positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate - often holding a leadership or significant share position. P&G Beauty. We compete in several categories of the beauty market including Retail and Professional Hair Care, Skin Care, Feminine Care, Cosmetics, Fine Fragrances and Personal Cleansing. The beauty markets in which we compete comprise approximately $200 billion in global retail sales, resulting in our overall share position of about 10%. We are the global market leader in Hair Care, one of our core businesses, with approximately a 24% share of the global market. We are also the global market leader in the Feminine Care category, another core business, with approximately a 36% share of the market. Billion-dollar brands in P&G Beauty include Pantene, Wella, Olay, Always and Head & Shoulders. P&G Family Health. In P&G Family Health, we compete in several distinct health care product categories including Oral Care, Pharmaceuticals, Personal Health and Pet Health and Nutrition. In Oral Care, there are several global competitors in the market, of which we have the number two share position. Our Pharmaceuticals business has approximately 33% of the global bisphosphonates market for the treatment of osteoporosis under the Actonel brand. Actonel, along with Crest and Iams, each have annual sales over one billion dollars. Baby Care and Family Care compete primarily in the Diapers, Baby Wipes, Bath Tissue and Kitchen Towel categories. Baby Care is one of our core businesses with a global share of approximately 37% of the market behind the strength of Pampers, with annual sales in excess of $6 billion. The markets in which we compete generally include two to three global companies, as well as local competitors and retailer brands. Family Care is predominantly a North American business. The Bounty and Charmin brands, with approximately a 43% and 27% market share in the United States, respectively, each have annual sales over one billion dollars.
8 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries P&G Household Care. In P&G Household Care, the Fabric Care and Home Care businesses operate in a global market containing numerous brands in each geography. We generally have the number one or number two share position in the markets in which we compete, with particular strength in North America and Europe. Fabric Care is one of our core businesses and we are the global market leader with approximately a 32% share. Home Care competes in the Dish Care, Surface Care and Air Care product categories. Four of our billion-dollar brands are part of the Fabric Care and Home Care businesses: Tide, Ariel, Downy and Dawn. In Snacks and Coffee, we compete primarily in two industry categories: Salted Snacks and Coffee. In Salted Snacks, we compete against both global and local companies. One global company dominates the category. In Coffee, we hold a leadership position of the brands sold predominantly through grocery, mass merchandise and club membership stores in the U.S. Two of our billion-dollar brands are in Snacks and Coffee - Pringles and Folgers. Forward-Looking Statements We discuss expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and objectives, in annual and quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All statements, except for historical and present factual information, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Security Litigation Reform Act, and are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data and our business plans. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could be significantly different from our expectations.
9 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Ability to Achieve Business Plans. We are a consumer products company and rely on continued demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers and retail trade customers. Our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations. This means we must be able to obtain patents and respond to technological advances and patents granted to competition. Our success is also dependent on effective sales, advertising and marketing programs in an increasingly fragmented media environment. Our ability to innovate and execute in these areas will determine the extent to which we are able to grow existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity, especially with respect to the product categories and geographic markets (including developing markets) in which we have chosen to focus. There continues to be competitive product and pricing pressures in the environments in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. To address these challenges, we must respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives and trade terms for products. We must manage each of these factors, as well as maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, in order to effectively compete and achieve our business plans. Since our goals include a growth component tied to acquisitions, we must manage and integrate key acquisitions, such as the Wella acquisition and the acquisition of The Gillette Company, including obtaining the required regulatory approvals and achieving the cost and growth synergies in accordance with stated goals. Cost Pressures. Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, cost of labor, foreign exchange and interest rates. Our costs in 2005 were impacted by sharply higher commodity costs and we expect this trend to continue in 2006. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects, sourcing decisions and certain hedging transactions. We also must manage currency, especially in volatile countries, and debt, including debt related to our announced plan to repurchase shares of Company common stock. In the manufacturing and general overhead areas, we need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements. We must also implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans, including our outsourcing projects. Global Economic Conditions. Economic changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption, inflation, deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our significant geographical markets, as well as any political or economic disruption due to terrorist and other hostile activities.
10 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Regulatory Environment. Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business. This includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements. Accordingly, our ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters and to resolve pending matters within current estimates may impact our results. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Volume and Net Sales Unit volume in 2005 increased 8%. Each of our three GBUs delivered volume growth rates of high-single digits or greater led by P&G Beauty, up 12%. Every one of our geographic-based MDOs posted volume growth, led by developing markets with high-teens volume growth. Organic volume, which excludes the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures, also increased 8%. Additional volume from the acquisition of Wella, which was acquired in September of 2003, was offset by the divestiture of the Juice business in August of 2004. The increase in volume versus the prior year was driven by: - - High single-digit growth of our "billion-dollar brand" portfolio, which represents approximately 60% of total Company volume; - - Growth in each of our top 16 countries, representing approximately 80% of total Company net sales; - - Market share growth in eight of our top 10 customers; and - - Continued strength in developing markets, particularly Greater China and Central and Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa. Net sales reached a record level of $56.74 billion, an increase of 10% versus the prior year. Foreign exchange contributed 2% to net sales growth, primarily driven by the strength of the Euro, British pound and Japanese yen. Higher relative growth in developing markets, where the average unit sales price is lower than the Company average, resulted in a negative mix impact of 1% on net sales growth. Pricing added 1% to sales growth. Price increases in Family Care, Pet Health and Nutrition, Pharmaceuticals, Coffee and in certain Fabric Care markets were partially offset by price investments taken primarily in Europe to address the growth of hard discounters and in response to competitive activity in certain Fabric Care and Baby Care markets. Net sales excluding foreign
11 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries exchange increased 8%, well above the Company's target. Organic sales, which exclude the effects of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange, also increased 8%. Net Sales (in billions of dollars)
2003 43.4 2004 51.4 2005 56.7
Geographic Sales Split (FY 2005 Net Sales)
North America 48% Western Europe 24% Northeast Asia 5% Developing Geographies 23%
In 2004, unit volume increased 17%, with all GBUs and geographic regions achieving unit volume growth. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily Wella, unit volume for the Company increased 10%. Net sales were $51.41 billion in 2004, an increase of 19% compared to 2003. Organic sales increased 8%, well above the Company's target. Net sales increased behind volume growth, including the addition of Wella, and a positive foreign exchange impact of 4% due primarily to the strengthening of the Euro, British pound and Canadian dollar. Product mix reduced sales growth by 1%, reflecting higher growth in developing markets, including Greater China and Latin America, which generally have an average unit sales price lower than the Company average. Pricing adjustments reduced sales growth by 1% as we sharpened Family Care and Coffee category pricing to remain competitive on shelf and reduced prices to improve consumer value and stimulate growth in selected product categories, including Fabric Care and Feminine Care.
12 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Operating Costs Gross margin in 2005 was 50.9% a decrease of 20 basis points compared with the prior year. Higher commodity costs reduced gross margin by over 100 basis points. We were able to offset approximately half of this impact through the scale benefits of volume growth, with additional offset coming from supply chain savings and pricing. Price increases to recover commodity costs were taken in Family Care, Pet Health and Nutrition, Coffee and certain Fabric Care markets. Gross margin also contracted due to strong growth in developing markets. Gross margin in developing markets is generally lower than the Company average. Additionally, the sale of the Juice business in August of 2004 provided a positive impact to gross margin, as the Juice business had a lower gross margin than the Company average. In 2004, gross margin was 51.1% an increase of 230 basis points versus the previous year. Charges for the restructuring program that was substantially completed in 2003 accounted for 80 basis points of the improvement. Of the remaining gross margin expansion, approximately 90 basis points were driven by the scale benefit of increased volume and 40 basis points were due to the addition of Wella, which has a higher gross margin than the balance of the Company. Supply chain savings and favorable product mix benefits were offset by the impact of higher commodity costs and pricing actions. Gross Margin Progress (% of sales)
2003 48.8 2004 51.1 2005 50.9
13 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Selling, General and Administrative expense (SG&A) in 2005 was 32.4% of net sales, an improvement of 40 basis points compared to 2004. The basis point reduction in SG&A was driven by lower marketing spending as a percentage of net sales. Absolute spending for marketing investments was up year-over-year, but decreased as a percentage of net sales behind scale leverage and the mix impact of developing market growth. Marketing spending as a percentage of net sales is lower in developing markets than the Company average. Marketing spending increased to support product innovations including Olay Anti-Aging, Olay Moisturinse, Olay Quench, Pantene Pro-Health, Tide with a Touch of Downy, Tide Coldwater, Febreze Air Effects, Pantene Color Expressions, Pampers Feel 'n Learn, Kandoo Toddler Wipes and Handsoap and the expansion of SK-II, Lenor and Herbal Essences. Overhead spending as a percentage of net sales was consistent with last year. Scale efficiencies in the base business were offset by the mix impact of two additional months of Wella in the current year and investments in selling capability. Wella has a higher ratio of overhead spending to net sales than the balance of the Company.
14 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Minority interest expense as a percentage of net sales decreased reflecting the Company's purchase of the remaining stake in its China venture, as well as the completion of the Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement with Wella. Please see the discussion of these transactions in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. SG&A in 2004 was 32.8% of net sales, an increase of 90 basis points compared to the previous year. The majority of the basis point increase was due to Wella, reflecting a higher ratio of SG&A expense to net sales than the base business. Reduced restructuring program charges in the prior year, that accounted for an improvement of 90 basis points, were more than offset by increases in marketing spending in 2004. Marketing investments were made behind product launches including Prilosec OTC, Crest Whitestrips Premium and Olay Regenerist, as well as continued support for the base business. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (% of sales)
2003 31.9 2004 32.8 2005 32.4
Non-Operating Items Non-operating items primarily include interest expense, divestiture gains and losses and interest and investment income. Interest expense increased 33% to $834 million in 2005 due to higher debt balances to finance share repurchases, as well as an increase in interest rates versus the prior year. In 2004, interest expense increased $68 million to $629 million, primarily due to additional debt to support the acquisition of Wella. Other non-operating income was $346 million in 2005 compared to $152 million in 2004 and $238 million in 2003. The increase in 2005 was driven primarily by the before-tax gain on the sale of the Juice business. The sale of the Juice business was essentially neutral to overall earnings, as the non-operating gain from the sale was largely offset by the loss of operating income. In 2004, other non-operating income declined primarily due to higher gains from divestitures in the base period.
15 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries The effective income tax rate was 30.6% in 2005 compared with 30.9% in 2004 and 31.5% in 2003. The fiscal 2005 effective tax rate includes a 280 basis point impact for estimated taxes in anticipation of repatriating approximately $7.2 billion in special dividends from the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (see Note 9 to Consolidated Financial Statements). This charge was largely offset by a 230 basis point impact from the reversal of tax provisions resulting from the successful resolution of tax audits in certain countries. The effective tax rate also benefited from the overall country mix of taxable income. Net Earnings In 2005, net earnings increased 12% to $6.92 billion. Earnings grew primarily behind volume and cost reduction efforts, which more than offset the effects of higher commodity costs and increased marketing spending in support of product innovations and the base business. Net earnings margin increased 20 basis points to 12.2% reflecting the scale benefits from higher volume and improvements due to cost savings. Net earnings in 2004 increased 29% over the prior year. Earnings growth was primarily driven by increased volume and the completion of the Company's Organization 2005 Restructuring Program. Improvements to earnings from gross margin expansion were partially offset by increased marketing spending to support product initiatives and base business growth. The acquisition of Wella had no material impact on earnings in 2004. 2003 results include $538 million of after-tax charges related to the Company's Organization 2005 Restructuring Program, which represents approximately 11% of the 2004 earnings growth. These charges covered enrollment reductions, manufacturing consolidations and portfolio choices to scale back or discontinue under-performing businesses and initiatives. The restructuring program was substantially completed in 2003. In 2005, diluted net earnings per share were $2.53, an increase of 15% compared to the prior year. Our target is 10% or better earnings per share growth. Diluted net earnings per share grew ahead of net earnings due to the Company's share repurchase activity. Diluted net earnings per share were $2.20 in 2004 and $1.70 in 2003. Diluted net earnings per share in 2003 included restructuring program impacts of $0.19.
16 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Diluted Net Earnings (per common share)
2003 $1.70 2004 $2.20 2005 $2.53
SEGMENT RESULTS Results for the segments reflect information on the same basis we use for internal management reporting and performance evaluation. These results exclude certain costs included in the Consolidated Financial Statements (e.g., interest expense, other financing costs, investing activities and certain restructuring costs), which are reported in Corporate. Within the P&G Household Care GBU, we provide data for the Fabric Care and Home Care, as well as the Snacks and Coffee reportable segments. In P&G Family Health, we provide information on the Health Care and the Baby Care and Family Care reportable segments. As described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have investments in certain companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control the financial and operating decisions and, therefore, do not consolidate them ("unconsolidated entities"). Because certain of these investments are managed as integral parts of the Company's business units, they are accounted for as if they were consolidated subsidiaries for management and segment reporting purposes. This means pre-tax earnings in the business units include 100% of each pre-tax income statement component, with eliminations to adjust such line items to U.S. GAAP included in Corporate. In determining after-tax earnings in the business units, we eliminate the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to minority interest, and apply the statutory tax rates. Adjustments to arrive at the Company's effective tax rate are included in Corporate.
17 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Sales percentage changes are approximations based on quantitative formulas that are consistently applied. P&G Beauty P&G Beauty unit volume increased 12% in 2005. Organic volume, which excludes the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures, increased 8%. The difference between total volume and organic volume is primarily Wella - the current year includes two additional months of Wella acquisition volume compared to the base period. P&G Beauty organic unit volume grew behind base business growth and several new product initiatives including Olay Anti-Aging, Olay Quench hand and body lotions, Olay Moisturinse in-shower body moisturizer, Pantene Pro-Health, Pantene Color Expressions and Lacoste Touch of Pink. Unit volume growth was broad-based with all major businesses in the segment contributing double-digit increases. Hair Care increased by low-double digits behind the Pantene, Head & Shoulders, Herbal Essences, Rejoice and Aussie brands. Our Hair Care business in North America was negatively impacted by the discontinuation of several minor brands and a difficult competitive environment. Hair Care global market share was 24%, an increase of about one point compared to last year. In Skin Care, volume increased double-digits behind the continued growth of the Olay brand. Double-digit growth in the Feminine Care business continues to be driven by product upgrades to the Always/Whisper brands and the successful introduction of Naturella in Central and Eastern Europe. Our global market share in Feminine Care was approximately 36%, an increase of about one percentage point compared to last year. Net sales increased 14% to $19.48 billion. Foreign exchange contributed 3% to sales growth, while the mix impact of higher relative growth in developing markets reduced sales by 1%. Net earnings increased 23% to $2.75 billion due to volume growth and an after-tax margin improvement of 100
18 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries basis points compared to the prior year. The margin increased primarily due to the scale benefits of volume growth, cost reduction programs and the impacts of the Company's increased ownership of the China operation and the Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement with Wella. These margin benefits were partially offset by marketing spending to support initiatives, including those discussed above.
19 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries In 2004, P&G Beauty unit volume increased 37%. Excluding the impact of the Wella acquisition, unit volume increased 10% behind broad-based growth in the Hair Care, Personal Beauty Care and Feminine Care businesses. Net sales increased 40% to $17.12 billion. Sales growth included a positive foreign exchange impact of 4%, partially offset by negative pricing of 1%. Pricing includes actions to support the Hair Care, Colorants and Cosmetics businesses in North America and the Feminine Care business in Western Europe. Overall, P&G Beauty market share increased, as sales growth out-paced market growth in key categories including Skin Care, Feminine Care and Hair Care. Net earnings increased 23% to $2.24 billion. Volume benefits, including the addition of Wella, and lower material costs were partially offset by marketing investments to support product initiatives and the base business. Earnings margin decreased due to the impact of the higher SG&A expense ratio for Wella. The Wella acquisition was accretive to P&G Beauty earnings and had no material impact on Company earnings after including interest expense, which is included in Corporate. In 2003, P&G Beauty net sales were $12.22 billion and net earnings were $1.83 billion. P&G Family Health Health Care. Health Care unit volume in 2005 increased 10% behind double-digit growth of Prilosec OTC, Actonel and developing markets. Oral Care posted mid-single digit volume growth globally despite a challenging competitive environment. Developing market volume for Oral Care was up double-digits, while developed market volume decreased due primarily to a contraction of the U.S. tooth whitening market. Net sales increased 11% to $7.79 billion aided by a positive 2% foreign exchange impact. Pricing in Pet Health and Nutrition and Pharmaceuticals added 1% to sales, while product mix reduced sales by 2% due to the shift of Macrobid branded sales to generic sales and higher relative growth in developing markets. Health Care's net earnings were $944 million, an increase of 8% against a base period where earnings increased 41%. Earnings increased primarily behind volume growth. After-tax earnings margin declined about 30 basis points year-over-year due, in part, to product mix impacts of lower volume in Macrobid and Crest Whitestrips, both of which have higher margins than the balance of the Health Care business. Earnings were also negatively impacted by a higher royalty expense rate for Prilosec OTC, higher commodity costs and marketing investments in support of initiatives.
20 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries In 2004, Health Care unit volume increased 18%. All categories grew volume, with double-digit gains in the Pharmaceutical, Personal Health Care and Oral Care businesses, as well as solid growth in Pet Health and Nutrition. Net sales increased 21% to $6.99 billion. Foreign exchange increased sales 3%. Net earnings increased 41% to $871 million primarily driven by sales growth behind initiatives and margin expansion due to product mix, manufacturing cost savings and lower overhead spending as a percentage of sales. Mix-driven margin expansion was negatively impacted by increased marketing spending to support initiatives and the base business. In 2003, Health Care net sales were $5.80 billion and net earnings were $617 million. Baby Care and Family Care. Baby Care and Family Care unit volume in 2005 increased 7%. Baby Care's unit volume increased upper single-digits behind a continued stream of innovation including Feel 'n Learn training pants in North America, Baby Dry fit upgrade and Baby Stages of Development upgrades in Western Europe and the expansion of Pampers Kandoo. Family Care volume increased mid-single digits driven by product, packaging and format initiatives in North America on both the Bounty and Charmin brands. Net sales increased 11% to $11.89 billion, including a positive 3% impact from foreign exchange. Pricing added 1% to sales growth driven primarily by a price increase in North America Family Care to recover higher commodity costs, partially offset by targeted pricing investments in Western Europe in response to competitive activity. Baby Care's global share increased by one point to 37%, with continued share progress in both North America and Western Europe. Family Care shares in major markets were up modestly compared to the prior year period. Net earnings increased 30% to $1.20 billion behind volume gains and an increase in after-tax earnings margin of 145 basis points to 10.1%. The margin increase was driven by the scale benefits of volume, pricing in North America Family Care and manufacturing cost savings projects, partly offset by higher commodity costs and marketing investments in support of initiatives. In 2004, Baby Care and Family Care unit volume increased 6%. Baby Care unit volume increased double-digits led by gains in Western Europe and developing markets. Family Care unit volume increased by mid-single digits. Net sales increased 8% to $10.72 billion, including a positive 4% impact due to foreign exchange. Sales were negatively impacted by pricing of 1%, primarily due to increased competitive promotional activity in North America Family Care. Mix reduced sales by 1% due primarily to higher relative Baby Care growth in developing markets, where unit sales prices are generally lower than the business average. Baby Care and Family Care net earnings were $927 million in 2004, an increase of 17% compared to 2003. Baby Care delivered
21 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries profit growth from higher volume and product cost savings. Family Care earnings declined slightly due to increases in commodity costs (both pulp and natural gas) and increased spending to keep prices competitive in a difficult market environment. P&G Household Care Fabric Care and Home Care. Unit volume increased by 9% in Fabric Care and Home Care, with both businesses delivering upper-single digit growth. Acquisitions in Europe and Latin America contributed 2% to volume growth versus the prior year. Unit volume increased behind strong initiative activity, expansion of the portfolio to serve more consumers and continued growth in developing markets. Volume increased behind the continued success of Lenor, Febreze Air Effects, Swiffer Duster and Gain, as well as the launches of Tide Coldwater, Downy Simple Pleasures and Mr. Clean Magic Reach. Developing markets grew volume by double-digits, led by the continued success of Tide in Greater China. Net sales increased 10% to $15.26 billion. Foreign exchange added 2% to sales growth. The mix impact of higher relative growth in developing markets reduced sales by 1%. Global market share for the Fabric Care business was up slightly compared to the previous year to 32%. Global market share for Home Care also increased modestly to 20%. In Air Care, Febreze earned a 14% share of the instant air freshener market behind the successful launch of Febreze Air Effects. Net earnings were $2.05 billion, a decrease of 3% compared to the prior year. After-tax earnings margin decreased 175 basis points due primarily to higher commodity costs, which more than offset the scale benefits of volume growth and pricing actions in certain markets. Additionally, after-tax margin in 2005 was lower due to the mix effect of higher growth rates in developing markets, where the margins are lower than in developed markets. We expect continued margin pressure in 2006 from higher commodity costs and growth in developing markets.
22 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries In 2004, Fabric Care and Home Care unit volume increased 9% behind growth on established brands such as Tide, Ariel, Gain and Ace and the success of initiatives including Mr. Clean Magic Eraser, Mr. Clean AutoDry, Swiffer Duster, Gain Fabric Enhancer and the expansion of Febreze. Net sales increased 10%, to $13.87 billion. Sales growth includes a positive 3% foreign exchange impact. Negative pricing of 1% was primarily driven by actions to maintain competitive shelf pricing in key geographies, including North America and Western Europe. Mix reduced sales by 1% driven primarily by double-digit growth in developing markets. Net earnings in 2004 increased 8% to $2.10 billion. Net earnings margin was down slightly compared to 2003 due to the mix effect of disproportionate growth outside of the U.S. (as we expanded our business in certain geographies including China, India and Eastern Europe) and marketing investments behind new product initiatives. Startup costs for increased liquid detergent capacity in North America to support new product initiative activity and investments in supply chain optimization also contributed to the lower net earnings margin. Snacks and Coffee. Snacks and Coffee unit volume increased 3% compared to the prior year. Pringles volume grew behind expanded distribution and merchandizing of customized flavors and Pringles Prints in North America. Coffee volume increased behind custom Folgers dark roasts. Folgers now has a market share in the U.S. of approximately 32%. Net sales increased 8% to $3.14 billion. Pricing increased sales 4% due primarily to actions on Folgers to recover higher commodity costs. Foreign exchange had a positive 2% effect on sales growth, while product mix reduced sales by 1%. Net earnings increased 24% to $393 million behind higher volume, pricing to recover commodity costs and lower merchandising spending versus the prior year. After-tax earnings margin increased 165 basis points to 12.5%. In 2004, unit volume in Snacks and Coffee increased 6%. Net sales were $2.91 billion, an increase of 9% compared to 2003. Foreign exchange added 3% to sales growth. Product mix increased sales by 1% primarily behind higher relative growth of Folgers, which has a higher unit sales rate than the segment average. Pricing reduced sales by 1% reflecting high promotional spending in the Coffee category. Snacks and Coffee net earnings in 2004 were $316 million, an increase of 25%, as volume and base business savings more than offset higher commodity costs.
23 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Corporate Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities that are not reflected in the results used internally to measure and evaluate the GBUs, as well as eliminations to adjust management reporting principles to U.S. GAAP. Operating activities in Corporate include the results of incidental businesses managed at the corporate level, certain restructuring costs and the elimination of individual revenues and expenses generated by companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control. Operating elements held in Corporate also include certain employee benefit costs and other general corporate items. The non-operating items held in Corporate primarily include financing and investing activities. Additionally, Corporate includes the historical results of certain divested businesses, including the Juice business, which was divested in August of 2004. Corporate assets primarily include cash, investment securities and goodwill. Corporate net sales primarily reflect the adjustment to eliminate the sales of unconsolidated entities included in business unit results. Net sales reported in Corporate include the results of divested businesses (e.g., Juice). In 2005, Corporate net earnings declined due to higher interest expense, partially offset by the gain from the Juice business divestiture. The improvement to Corporate earnings in 2004 was driven primarily by a favorable base period comparison, as the prior year included restructuring program charges. This improvement was partially offset by higher interest charges associated with Wella, hedging impacts and current year charges for projects to maintain a competitive cost structure. FINANCIAL CONDITION We believe our financial condition continues to be of high quality, as evidenced by our ability to generate substantial cash from operations and ready access to capital markets at competitive rates. Operating cash flow provides the primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Excess operating cash is used first to fund shareholder dividends. Other discretionary uses include share repurchases and "tack-on" acquisitions to complement our portfolio of brands and geographies. As necessary, we may supplement operating cash flow with debt to fund these activities. The overall cash position of the Company reflects our strong business results and a global cash management strategy that takes into account liquidity management, economic factors and tax considerations.
24 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Operating Activities In 2005, operating cash flow was $8.68 billion compared to $9.36 billion in 2004. The benefit of higher net earnings in the current year was more than offset by changes in working capital. We define working capital as the combination of inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable. Total inventory days on hand increased by two days in 2005 reflecting the impacts of higher commodity costs and the Company's efforts to rebuild inventory levels in product categories that could not sufficiently meet customer demand. Receivable days sales outstanding improved by two days, resulting in a slight improvement to operating cash flow. Accounts payable decreased three days. In addition to the increase in working capital, operating cash was reduced by tax payments related to the settlement of prior year audits. In 2004, operating cash flow was $9.36 billion compared to $8.70 billion in 2003, representing an increase of 8%. Higher net earnings were the primary driver of the increase in operating cash flow. Operating cash flow growth trailed earnings growth due to an increase in accounts receivable, cash payments for accrued restructuring program charges and a dividend received from a joint venture in 2003. We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor impacting the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. It is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures and is one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and determine their at-risk compensation. In 2005, free cash flow was $6.50 billion compared to $7.33 billion in 2004. In addition to lower operating cash flow, free cash flow declined year-over-year due to higher capital expenditures. Capital expenditures in 2005 were higher than in 2004, but still below our target of capital spending at or below 4% of net sales. In 2004, free cash flow was $7.33 billion compared to $7.22 billion in 2003. Free cash flow in 2004 reflected increased operating cash flow, partially offset by increased capital expenditures, although spending was in-line with our target of capital spending at or below 4% of sales. Capital spending in 2003 was well below historical levels and the Company's target. Free cash flow productivity, defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings, was 94% in 2005, above the Company's target of 90%. Free cash flow productivity was 119% in 2004.
25 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Investing Activities Investing activities in the current year used $2.34 billion of cash compared to $10.14 billion in the prior year, which included the cash used for the acquisition of Wella. Acquisitions. Acquisitions (net of cash acquired) used $572 million of cash in the current year which includes acquisitions of a Pharmaceuticals business in Spain, Fabric Care businesses in Europe and Latin America and increased ownership in our Glad venture with The Clorox Company. In 2004, net cash used for acquisitions was $7.48 billion, driven by the acquisition of Wella and the purchase of the remaining stake in our China venture from Hutchison Whampoa China Ltd. (Hutchison). The initial Wella acquisition in September 2003 was approximately $5.10 billion for an 81% interest, funded by a combination of debt and cash. In June 2004, the Company and Wella completed a Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement, which provided us full operating control and rights to 100% of future operating results. In exchange, we must pay the remaining Wella shareholders a guaranteed annual dividend payments. Alternatively, the Wella shareholders may elect to tender the shares for a fixed price. The obligation associated with the Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement was $1.11 billion and has been recognized as a current liability. The portion of the acquisition related to the Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement represents a non-cash transaction. Future payments related to the principal portion of the annual dividend arrangement or acquisition of shares tendered will be reflected as investing activities, consistent with the underlying transaction. The gross cash outlay for Hutchison in 2004 was $2.00 billion, which also included the settlement of minority interest and certain other liabilities, for a net cost of $1.85 billion. The acquisition was funded by debt. We also completed certain smaller acquisitions with an aggregate cost of $384 million in 2004, including Glide dental floss and Fabric Care brands in Western Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. Net cash used for acquisitions was $61 million in 2003.
26 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Capital Spending. Capital spending efficiency continues to be a critical component of the Company's overall cash management strategy. Capital expenditures in 2005 were $2.18 billion compared to $2.02 billion in 2004 and $1.48 billion in 2003. Capital spending in 2005 was 3.8% of net sales - slightly lower than the comparable prior year period as a percentage of net sales and below our target ratio. Over the past several years, we have made systemic interventions to improve capital spending efficiencies and asset utilization. While the Company's goal is to maintain capital expenditures at or below 4% of sales on an ongoing basis, there may be exceptional years when specific business circumstances, such as capacity additions, may lead to higher spending. Capital Spending (% of sales)
2001 6.3% 2002 4.2% 2003 3.4% 2004 3.9% 2005 3.8%
Proceeds from Asset Sales. Proceeds from asset sales increased primarily due to the divestiture of the Juice business in August of 2004. Financing Activities Dividend Payments. Our first discretionary use of cash is dividend payments. Dividends per common share grew 11% to $1.03 per share in 2005. This increase represents the 49th consecutive fiscal year the Company has increased its common share dividend. The Company has been paying common share dividends each year, without interruption, since incorporation in 1890. Total dividend payments to both common and preferred shareholders were $2.73 billion, $2.54 billion and $2.25 billion in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Dividends (per common share)
2001 $0.70 2002 $0.76 2003 $0.82 2004 $0.93 2005 $1.03
27 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Long-Term and Short-Term Debt. We maintain debt levels we consider appropriate after evaluating a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for ongoing operations, investment plans (including acquisitions and share repurchase activities) and the overall cost of capital. Total debt increased by $3.49 billion in 2005 to $24.33 billion. The increase was primarily due to additional debt to finance share repurchases announced concurrently with our planned acquisition of The Gillette Company. In 2004, total debt increased by $7.19 billion to $20.84 billion. The increase was primarily due to the acquisitions of Wella and the Hutchison minority interest, along with discretionary share repurchases. Liquidity. As discussed previously, our primary source of liquidity is cash generated from operations. We believe internally-generated cash flows adequately support business operations, capital expenditures and shareholder dividends, as well as a level of discretionary investments (e.g., for tack-on acquisitions). We are able to supplement our short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and $2.00 billion in bank credit facilities. Broad access to financing includes commercial paper programs in multiple markets at favorable rates given our strong credit ratings (including separate U.S. dollar and Euro multi-currency programs). We maintain two bank credit facilities: a $1.00 billion, five-year facility which matures in July 2007 and a $1.00 billion, five-year facility which matures in July 2009. We have never drawn against either facility and have no plans to do so in the foreseeable future. These credit facilities do not have cross-default or ratings triggers, nor do they have material adverse events clauses, except at the time of signing. While not considered material to the overall financial condition of the Company, there is a covenant in the credit facilities stating the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization cannot exceed four at the time of a draw on the facility. As of June 30, 2005, we are comfortably below this level, with a ratio of approximately 1.2. Additionally, we secured a $3.40 billion bridge facility to fund the share buyback plan announced concurrently with the Company's planned acquisition of The Gillette Company. As discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we entered into an agreement to acquire The Gillette Company on January 27, 2005. In connection with this transaction, we also announced a share buyback plan under which we will acquire up to $22 billion of Company common shares. As of June 30, 2005, $3.00 billion in shares were acquired under this plan, financed by the bridge facility.
28 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries On July 27, 2005, we signed a $24 billion three-year credit facility with a syndicate of banks to replace the current $3.40 billion bridge facility. The credit facility will be available for general corporate purposes with the expectation that the majority of the funds will be used to fund the share repurchase program. We expect the share buyback program to be largely complete by June 30, 2006. As part of the share repurchase program, we may also purchase shares of The Gillette Company prior to the close to facilitate completion of the transaction (dependent on market conditions and regulatory approval). We do not anticipate any significant impacts to the Company's overall liquidity as a result of the acquisition or share buyback program. This credit facility carries a variable interest rate. Interest on the facility will be managed within our overall interest rate management policies described in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to these credit facilities, long-term borrowing available under our current shelf registration statement was $7.01 billion at June 30, 2005. The Company's Moody's and Standard & Poor's (S&P) short-term credit ratings are P-1 and A-1+, respectively. Our Moody's and S&P long-term credit ratings are Aa3 and AA- with a negative outlook, respectively. These ratings were recently confirmed following the Company's announcement of the agreement to acquire Gillette and the stock buyback plan. Treasury Purchases. During the past year, we substantially increased our level of share repurchases. Total share repurchases in 2005 were $5.03 billion, of which $3.00 billion were made as part of our aforementioned share repurchase plan. As discussed previously, we expect to largely complete the share purchases under this plan by June 30, 2006. In 2004, treasury share purchases totaled $4.07 billion compared to $1.24 billion in 2003. Lower share purchases in 2003 reflected the need to preserve capital ahead of the Wella acquisition. Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, that we believe could have a material impact on financial condition or liquidity.
29 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Contractual Commitments. The table below provides information on our contractual commitments as of June 30, 2005 (in millions). (1) Represents future pension payments to comply with local funding requirements. The projected payments beyond fiscal year 2008 are not currently determinable. (2) Primarily reflects future contractual payments under various take-or-pay arrangements entered into as part of the normal course of business. Commitments made under take-or-pay obligations represent future purchases in line with expected usage to obtain favorable pricing. Approximately 70% relates to service contracts for information technology, human resources management and facilities management activities that were outsourced in recent years. While the amounts listed represent contractual obligations, we do not believe it is likely that the full contractual amount would be paid if the underlying contracts were canceled prior to maturity. In such cases, we generally are able to negotiate new contracts or cancellation penalties, resulting in a reduced payment. The amounts do not include obligations related to other contractual purchase obligations that are not take-or-pay arrangements. Such contractual purchase obligations are primarily purchase orders at fair value that are part of normal operations and are reflected in historical operating cash flow trends. We do not believe such purchase obligations will adversely affect our liquidity position.
30 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, there are certain accounting policies that are particularly important. These include revenue recognition, income taxes, certain employee benefits and goodwill and intangible assets. We believe these accounting policies, and others set forth in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, should be reviewed as they are integral to understanding the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. In some cases, these policies simply represent required accounting. In others, they may represent a choice between acceptable accounting methods or may require substantial judgment or estimation in their application. Due to the nature of our business, these estimates generally are not considered highly uncertain at the time of estimation, meaning they are not expected to result in a change that would materially affect our results of operations or financial condition in any given year. The Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Most of our revenue transactions represent sales of inventory, and we recognize revenue when title, ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which generally is on the date of shipment. A provision for payment discounts and product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales within the same period that the revenue is recognized. We offer sales incentives through various programs, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer coupons. The cost of these programs is recorded as a reduction of sales. Given the nature of our business, revenue recognition practices do not contain estimates that materially affect results of operations.
31 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Income Taxes Our annual tax rate is determined based on our income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. Tax law requires certain items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, our annual tax rate reflected in our financial statements is different than reported on our tax return (our cash tax rates). Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expenditures which we have already taken a deduction for in our tax return but have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Realization of certain deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction prior to the expiration of the carry-forward periods. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized. Changes in existing tax laws, tax rates and their related interpretations may also affect our ability to successfully manage the impacts of regulatory matters around the world. We establish reserves for tax positions that management believes are supportable, but are potentially subject to successful challenge by the applicable taxing authority. We review these in light of the changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, and adjust them when significant changes in risk warrant it. We have a number of audits in process in various jurisdictions. Although the results of these audits are uncertain, based on currently available information, we believe that the ultimate outcomes will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our accounting represents management's best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. Certain changes or future events, such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings, completion of tax audits or earnings repatriation plans could have an impact on our estimates and effective tax rate.
32 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Employee Benefits We sponsor various post-employment benefits throughout the world. These include pension plans, both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, and other post-employment benefit (OPEB) plans, consisting primarily of health care and life insurance for retirees. For accounting purposes, the defined benefit and OPEB plans require assumptions to estimate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations, including the following: discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; expected return on assets; and health care cost trend rates. These and other assumptions affect the annual expense recognized for these plans. Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and management's best judgment regarding future expectations. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the net amount by which actual results differ from our assumptions is deferred. If this net deferred amount exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the deferred amount is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes, such as increasing or decreasing benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost), is deferred and included in expense on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits. The expected return on plan assets assumption is important, since many of our defined benefit plans and our primary OPEB plan are funded. The process for setting the expected rates of return is described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 2005, the average return on assets assumption for pension plan assets is 7.2%. A change in the rate of return of 1% would impact annual benefit expense by approximately $17 million after tax. For 2005, the return on assets assumption for OPEB assets is 9.5%. A 1% change in the rate of return would impact annual benefit expense by approximately $24 million after tax.
33 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Since pension and OPEB liabilities are measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate is a significant assumption. Discount rates used for our U.S. defined benefit and OPEB plans are based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality bonds for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximate the estimated payouts of the plan. For our international plans, the discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment grade corporate bonds rated AA or better. The average discount rate on the defined benefit pension plans of 4.5% represents a weighted average of local rates in countries where such plans exist. A 0.5% change in the discount rate would impact annual after-tax benefit expense by less than $35 million. The rate on the OPEB plan of 5.1% reflects the higher interest rates generally available in the U.S., which is where a majority of the plan participants receive benefits. A 0.5% change in the discount rate would impact annual after-tax OPEB expense by less than $20 million. Certain defined contribution pension and OPEB benefits in the U.S. are funded by the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP), as discussed in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company seeks to deliver value from innovation by building brands and businesses. In many cases, brands are created internally, and the costs are expensed as incurred. In other cases, brands and businesses may be acquired, which generally results in intangible assets recognized in the financial statements. These intangibles may represent indefinite-lived assets (e.g., certain trademarks or brands), definite-lived intangibles (e.g., patents) or residual goodwill. Of these, only the costs of definite-lived intangibles are amortized to expense over their estimated life. The classification of intangibles and the determination of the appropriate life requires substantial judgment. Our history demonstrates that many of the Company's brands have very long lives and our objective is to generally maintain them indefinitely. For accounting purposes, we evaluate a number of factors to determine whether an indefinite life is appropriate, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history, operating plan and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brand is sold. If it is determined that an intangible does not have an indefinite life, our policy is to amortize the balance over the expected useful life, which generally ranges from 5 to 20 years. Our impairment testing for goodwill is performed separately from our impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangibles. We test goodwill for impairment, at least annually, by reviewing the book value compared to the fair value at the reporting unit level. We test individual indefinite-lived intangibles at least annually by reviewing the individual book values compared to the fair value. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows to measure
34 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries fair value. Assumptions used in the Company's impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and cost of capital, are consistent with internal projections and operating plans. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, we review the life of intangible assets. The value of goodwill and intangible assets from recently-acquired businesses are derived from the current macroeconomic environment and therefore, are more susceptible to a short-term adverse economic change that could require an impairment charge. We did not recognize any material impairment charges for goodwill or intangible assets during the years presented. New Accounting Pronouncements As more fully described in Notes 1 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we adopted SFAS No. 123(Revised 2004), "Share-based Payment" (SFAS 123(R)) on July 1, 2005. This statement requires that all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock options, be accounted for using the fair-value-based method. SFAS 123(R) is effective for the Company for our fiscal year beginning July 1, 2005. We elected to adopt SFAS 123(R) using the modified retrospective method under which prior years' results were revised to give effect to the value of options granted in fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 1995. The additional compensation expense recognized for periods prior to adoption under the modified retrospective method is consistent with the amounts previously reported in our pro forma footnote disclosure for stock-based compensation. No other new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the fiscal year has had or is expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
35 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries OTHER INFORMATION Hedging and Derivative Financial Instruments As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. To manage the volatility related to these exposures, we evaluate our exposures on a global basis to take advantage of the direct netting opportunities and currency, interest rate and commodity correlations that exist within the portfolio. For the remaining exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions in accordance with the Company's hedging policies that are designed to offset, in-part or in-whole, changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes a detailed discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments. Derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuation, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk modeling. The tests for interest rate and currency rate exposures discussed below are based on a Monte Carlo simulation value-at-risk model using a one year horizon and a 95% confidence level. The model incorporates the impact of correlation (the degree to which exposures move together over time) and diversification (from holding multiple currency, commodity and interest rate instruments) and assumes that financial returns are normally distributed. Estimates of volatility and correlations of market factors are drawn from the RiskMetrics(TM) dataset as of June 30, 2005. In cases where data is unavailable in RiskMetrics(TM), a reasonable proxy is included. Our market risk exposures relative to interest and currency rates, as discussed below, have not changed materially versus the previous reporting period. In addition, we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would significantly impact such exposures in the near-term. Interest Rate Exposure. Interest rate swaps are used to hedge exposures to interest rate movement on underlying debt obligations. Certain interest rate swaps denominated in foreign currencies are designated to hedge exposures to currency exchange rate movements on our investments in foreign operations. These currency interest rate swaps are designated as hedges of the Company's foreign net investments. Based on our overall interest rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2005, including derivative and other instruments sensitive to interest rates, we do not believe a near-term change in interest rates, at a 95% confidence level based on historical interest rate movements, would materially affect our financial statements.
36 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries Currency Rate Exposure. Because we manufacture and sell products in a number of countries throughout the world, we are exposed to the impact on revenue and expenses of movements in currency exchange rates. The primary purpose of our currency hedging activities is to reduce the risk that our financial position will be adversely affected by short-term changes in exchange rates. Corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. We primarily use forward contracts and options with maturities of less than 18 months. In addition, we enter into certain currency swaps with maturities of up to five years to hedge our exposure to exchange rate movements on intercompany financing transactions. We also use purchased currency options with maturities of generally less than 18 months and forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on intercompany royalties and to offset a portion of the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on income from international operations. Based on our overall currency rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2005, including derivative and other instruments sensitive to currency movements, we do not believe a near-term change in currency rates, at a 95% confidence level based on historical currency rate movements, would materially affect our financial statements. Commodity Price Exposure. We use raw materials that are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. In addition to fixed price contracts, we use futures, options and swap contracts to manage the volatility related to the above exposures. Commodity hedging activity is not considered material to our financial statements. Restructuring Program In 1999, concurrent with a reorganization of our operations into product-based GBUs, we initiated a multi-year Organization 2005 Restructuring Program. Total restructuring program charges were $538 million after tax in 2003. The program was substantially complete at the end of June 2003 with a remaining reserve of $335 million. Substantially all of the liability was settled through cash payments by June 30, 2004.
37 The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries The Company continues to undertake projects to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing consolidations and work force rationalization, as part of its normal operations. We expect to recognize between $150 million to $200 million after tax per year in charges for these types of projects. Spending in both 2005 and 2004 was consistent and within the range described above. Measures Not Defined By U.S GAAP Our discussion of financial results includes several "non-GAAP" financial measures. We believe these measures provide our investors with additional information about our underlying results and trends, as well as insight to some of the metrics used to evaluate management. When used in MD&A, we have provided the comparable GAAP measure in the discussion. These measures include: Organic Sales Growth. Organic sales growth measures sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons. The Company believes this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying results and trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis. Free Cash Flow. Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending. The Company views free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation. Free Cash Flow Productivity. Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. The Company's target is to generate free cash flow at or above 90% of net earnings. Free cash flow productivity is one of the measures used to evaluate senior management.

Exhibit 99-2 Revised Consolidated Financial Statements (including accompanying footnotes) REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Procter & Gamble Company We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at June 30, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. As discussed in Note 1, the accompanying 2005 consolidated financial statements have been restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-based Payment" and the change in the Company's method of accounting for Treasury Stock in order to present Treasury Stock as a separate component of Shareholders' Equity. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal Control -- Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 9, 2005, not included herein, expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Cincinnati, Ohio August 9, 2005, except for Notes 1, 7, 9, and 11 as to which the date is November 2, 2005 1
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 3
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 4
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries (1) Premium on equity put options totaled $6 for 2003. See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 5
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS The Procter & Gamble Company and Subsidiaries See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 6
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Adoption of the Fair Value Method of Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation The Procter & Gamble Company ("the Company", "we" or "us") adopted SFAS No. 123(Revised 2004), "Share-based Payment" (SFAS 123(R)) on July 1, 2005. This Statement requires that all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock options, be accounted for using the fair-value-based method. SFAS 123(R) is effective for the Company for our fiscal year beginning July 1, 2005. We elected to adopt SFAS 123(R) using the modified retrospective method under which prior years' results were revised to give effect to the value of options granted in fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 1995. The compensation expense recognized for periods prior to adoption under the modified retrospective method is consistent with the amounts previously reported in our pro forma footnote disclosure for stock-based compensation. The following table summarizes the impact of the adoption of SFAS 123(R) on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003: The Statement of Cash Flows has been revised to reclassify the cash inflows related to excess tax benefits for employee exercise of options from operating activities to financing activities. 7
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) As a result of the modified retrospective method of adoption of SFAS 123(R), we revised the following footnotes: - Footnote 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - The pro forma disclosure of stock-based compensation expense has been eliminated. - Footnote 7, Earnings Per Share and Stock Options - Earnings per share amounts have been revised to reflect stock-based compensation expense and our stock-based compensation disclosures have been revised. - Footnote 9, Income Taxes - Income tax disclosures have been revised to reflect stock-based compensation expense and the related income tax effects. - Footnote 11, Segment Information - Consistent with our basis of measurement for segment performance, our segment disclosures have been revised to reflect stock-based compensation expense. - Footnote 12, Quarterly Results (Unaudited) - Quarterly results have been revised to reflect stock-based compensation expense. The footnotes have not been updated for any other developments subsequent to the original filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Change in Treasury Stock Accounting Method On July 1, 2005, we elected to change our method of accounting for Treasury Stock. We previously accounted for share repurchases as if the Treasury Stock was constructively retired by reducing Common Stock and Retained Earnings within Shareholders' Equity. Reissuances of repurchased shares were accounted for by increasing Common Stock and Additional Paid-In Capital. Our new method of accounting will present Treasury Stock as a separate component of Shareholders' Equity. We believe that our new accounting method is preferable as it more closely depicts the underlying intent of the share repurchases in which the shares are not retired. In addition, we believe that our new presentation of Shareholders' Equity provides greater visibility of our share repurchase activity. We adopted SFAS No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections", on July 1, 2005. Accordingly, we reflected this new accounting method retrospectively by adjusting prior periods. This reclassification is limited to changes within Shareholders' Equity and has no effect on our net earnings, cash flows or total assets. The following tables summarize the changes within Shareholders' Equity as of June 30, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 from the change in our method of accounting for Treasury Stock (these tables also reflect changes to equity from the adoption of FAS 123(R)): 8
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) Nature of Operations Our business is focused on providing consumer branded products of superior quality and value. We market over 300 branded products in more than 160 countries around the world. Our products are sold primarily through retail operations including mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and high-frequency stores. Basis of Presentation The Consolidated Financial Statements include The Procter & Gamble Company and its controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Investments in certain companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control the financial and operating decisions, are accounted for as equity method investments. All amounts are presented as millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. Use of Estimates Preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions the Company may undertake in the future. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, consumer and trade promotion accruals, pensions, post-employment benefits, stock options, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, future cash flows associated with impairment testing for goodwill and long-lived assets, deferred tax assets, potential income tax assessments and contingencies. Actual results may ultimately differ from estimates, although management does not believe such differences would materially affect the financial statements in any individual year. 9
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) Revenue Recognition Sales are recognized when revenue is realized or realizable and has been earned. Most revenue transactions represent sales of inventory. The revenue recorded includes shipping and handling costs, which generally are included in the list price to the customer. Our policy is to recognize revenue when title to the product, ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which generally is on the date of shipment. A provision for payment discounts and product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales in the same period that the revenue is recognized. Trade promotions, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer coupons, are offered through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales are recorded net of trade promotion spending, which is recognized as incurred, generally at the time of the sale. Most of these arrangements have terms of approximately one year. Accruals for expected payouts under these programs are included as accrued marketing and promotion in the accrued and other liabilities line item in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold primarily comprises direct materials and supplies consumed in the manufacture of product, as well as manufacturing labor, depreciation expense and direct overhead expense necessary to acquire and convert the purchased materials and supplies into finished product. Cost of products sold also includes the cost to distribute products to customers, inbound freight costs, internal transfer costs, warehousing costs and other shipping and handling activity. Shipping and handling costs invoiced to customers are included in net sales. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense is primarily comprised of marketing expenses, including the cost of media, advertising and related costs; selling expenses; research and development costs; administrative and other indirect overhead costs; depreciation and amortization expense on non-manufacturing assets; and other miscellaneous operating items. Research and development costs are charged to expense as incurred and were $1,940 in 2005, $1,802 in 2004 and $1,665 in 2003. Advertising costs are charged to expense as incurred. Worldwide television, print, radio and internet advertising expenses were $5,917 in 2005, $5,504 in 2004 and $4,373 in 2003. Restructuring Program In 1999, concurrent with a reorganization of our operations into product-based Global Business Units, we initiated a multi-year Organization 2005 Restructuring Program. Costs included enrollment reductions, manufacturing consolidations and portfolio choices to scale back or discontinue under-performing businesses and initiatives. Total restructuring program charges were $751 in 2003, including $351 in separations related 10
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) to approximately 5,000 people, $190 in asset write-downs and $87 in accelerated depreciation related to long-lived assets that were taken out of service prior to the end of their normal service period. At June 30, 2003, the program was substantially complete with a remaining reserve of $335. Substantially all of this liability was settled through cash payments by June 30, 2004. We continue to undertake projects substantially smaller in scope to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing streamlining and work force rationalization, as part of our normal operations. Other Non-Operating Income, Net Other non-operating income, net primarily includes divestiture gains and losses and interest and investment income. Currency Translation Financial statements of operating subsidiaries outside the United States of America (U.S.) generally are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Adjustments to translate those statements into U.S. dollars are recorded in other comprehensive income. For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies, the U.S. dollar is the functional currency. Remeasurement adjustments for financial statements in highly inflationary economies and other transactional exchange gains and losses are reflected in earnings. Cash Flow Presentation The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect method, which reconciles net earnings to cash flow from operating activities. These adjustments include the removal of timing differences between the occurrence of operating receipts and payments and their recognition in net earnings. The adjustments also remove from operating activities cash flows arising from investing and financing activities, which are presented separately from operating activities. Cash flows from foreign currency transactions and operations are translated at an average exchange rate for the period. Cash flows from hedging activities are included in the same category as the items being hedged. Cash flows from derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges are classified as financing activities. Cash flows from other derivative instruments used to manage interest, commodity or currency exposures are classified as operating activities. Cash paid for acquisitions is classified as investing activities. Cash Equivalents Highly liquid investments with remaining stated maturities of three months or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents and recorded at cost. 11
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) Investments Investment securities consist of auction rate securities that approximate fair value and readily-marketable debt and equity securities that are classified as trading with unrealized gains or losses charged to earnings. Other investments that are not controlled and over which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for under the cost method. Inventory Valuation Inventories are valued at cost, which is not in excess of current market prices. Product-related inventories are primarily maintained on the first-in, first-out method. Minor amounts of product inventories, including certain cosmetics and commodities, are maintained on the last-in, first-out method. The cost of spare part inventories is maintained using the average cost method. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The cost of intangible assets with determinable useful lives is amortized to reflect the pattern of economic benefits consumed, principally on a straight-line basis over the estimated periods benefited. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles, primarily brand names and trademarks, are not amortized, but are evaluated annually for impairment. Our impairment testing for goodwill is performed separately from our impairment testing of individual indefinite-lived intangibles. The annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles is based on valuation models that incorporate internal projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans. We evaluate a number of factors to determine whether an indefinite life is appropriate, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history, operating plan and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brands are sold. Where certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, indefinite-lived intangibles may be adjusted to a determinable life and an impairment assessment may be performed. Due to the nature of our business, there are a number of brand intangibles that have been determined to have indefinite lives. If it is determined that a brand intangible does not have an indefinite life, our policy is to amortize the intangible asset over the expected useful life. Patents, technology and other intangibles with contractual terms are amortized over their respective contractual lives. Other non-contractual intangible assets with determinable lives are amortized over periods generally ranging from 5 to 20 years. Where certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, lives on intangible assets with determinable lives may be adjusted and an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts. 12
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost reduced by accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense is recognized over the assets' estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Machinery and equipment includes office furniture and equipment (15-year life), computer equipment and capitalized software (3 to 5-year lives) and manufacturing equipment (3 to 20-year lives). Buildings are depreciated over an estimated useful life of 40 years. Estimated useful lives are periodically reviewed and, where appropriate, changes are made prospectively. Where certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, asset lives may be adjusted and an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts. Fair Values of Financial Instruments Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. The estimated fair values of such financial instruments, including certain debt instruments, investment securities and derivatives, have been determined using market information and valuation methodologies, primarily discounted cash flow analysis. These estimates require considerable judgment in interpreting market data and changes in assumptions or estimation methods could significantly affect the fair value estimates. However, we do not believe any such changes would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Other financial instruments, including cash equivalents, other investments and short-term debt, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. The fair values of long-term debt and derivative instruments are disclosed in Note 5 and Note 6, respectively. New Pronouncements and Reclassifications As described previously, we adopted SFAS 123(R) on July 1, 2005 using the modified retrospective method. No other new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the fiscal year has had or is expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Certain reclassifications of prior years' amounts have been made to conform to the current year presentation. 13
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) NOTE 2 ACQUISITIONS Gillette Acquisition On January 27, 2005, we entered into an agreement to acquire The Gillette Company. The agreement, which has been approved by the boards of directors and the shareholders of both companies, provides for a stock-for-stock exchange in which 0.975 shares of The Procter & Gamble Company common stock would be issued and exchanged, on a tax-free basis, for each share of The Gillette Company. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total consideration would be approximately $54 billion, determined using the average Company stock prices beginning two days before and ending two days after January 28, 2005, the date the acquisition was announced. The Gillette Company is a leader in several global product categories including blades and razors, oral care and batteries. Total sales for Gillette during its most recent year ended December 31, 2004 were $10.5 billion. The acquisition is subject to approval by certain regulatory authorities. We believe that the transaction will close in Fall 2005. In connection with this acquisition, we also announced a share buyback plan under which we will acquire up to $22 billion of Company common shares. Through June 30, 2005, we repurchased $3.00 billion under this plan, financed by a bridge credit facility. On July 27, 2005, we entered into a $24 billion three-year credit facility with a syndicate of banks. This facility replaced the bridge credit facility. Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes with the expectation that the majority of the funds will be used as part of the share repurchase program. As part of the share repurchase program, we may also purchase shares of The Gillette Company prior to close to facilitate completion of the transaction (dependent on market conditions and regulatory approval). This facility is initially secured by a pledge of certain of the Company shares acquired under the share buyback plan. This credit 14
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) facility carries a variable interest rate. Interest on the facility will be managed within our overall interest rate management policies described in Note 6. Wella Acquisition On September 2, 2003, we acquired a controlling interest in Wella. Through a stock purchase agreement with the majority shareholders of Wella and a tender offer made on the remaining shares, we acquired a total of 81% of Wella's outstanding shares, including 99% of Wella's outstanding voting class shares. In June 2004, the Company and Wella entered into a Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement (the Domination Agreement) pursuant to which we are entitled to exercise full operating control and receive 100% of the future earnings of Wella. As consideration for the Domination Agreement, we will pay the holders of the remaining outstanding shares of Wella a guaranteed perpetual annual dividend payment. Alternatively, the remaining Wella shareholders may elect to tender their shares to us for an agreed price. The fair value of the total guaranteed annual dividend payments was $1.11 billion, which approximates the cost if all remaining shares were tendered. Because the Domination Agreement transfers operational and economic control of the remaining outstanding shares to the Company, it has been accounted for as an acquisition of the remaining shares, with a liability recorded equal to the fair value of the guaranteed payments. Because of the tender feature, the liability is recorded as a current liability in the accrued and other liabilities line of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Payments made under the guaranteed annual dividend and tender provisions are allocated between interest expense and a reduction of the liability, as appropriate. The total purchase price for Wella, including acquisition costs, was $6.27 billion based on exchange rates at the acquisition dates. It was funded with a combination of cash, debt and the liability recorded under the Domination Agreement. The acquisition of Wella, with over $3 billion in annual net sales, gives us access to the professional hair care category plus greater scale and scope in hair care, hair colorants, cosmetics and fragrance products, while providing potential for significant synergies. The operating results of the Wella business are reported in our P&G Beauty Global Business Unit beginning September 2, 2003. The following table provides pro forma results of operations for the years ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, as if Wella had been acquired as of the beginning of each fiscal year presented. Pro forma information for 2005 is not provided as the results of Wella are included in our results for the entire year. The pro forma results include certain adjustments, including adjustments to convert Wella's historical financial information from International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) into U.S. GAAP, estimated interest impacts from funding of the acquisition and estimated amortization of definite-lived intangible assets. However, pro forma results do not include any cost savings or other effects of the integration of Wella. Accordingly, such amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred if the acquisition had occurred on the dates indicated. The following table presents the allocation of purchase price related to the Wella business as of the date of acquisition.
Current assets $1,797 Property, plant and equipment 407 Goodwill 5,941 Intangible assets 1,671 Other non-current assets 157 ------ TOTAL ASSETS ACQUIRED 9,973 ------ Current liabilities 2,099 Non-current liabilities 1,601 ------ TOTAL LIABILITIES ASSUMED 3,700 ------ NET ASSETS ACQUIRED 6,273 ------
The Wella acquisition resulted in $5.94 billion in goodwill, all of which was allocated to the P&G Beauty Global Business Unit. The following table presents the intangible assets acquired. China Venture On June 18, 2004, we purchased the remaining 20% stake in our China venture from our partner, Hutchison Whampoa China Ltd. (Hutchison), giving us full ownership in our operations in China. The net purchase price was $1.85 billion, which is the purchase price of $2.00 billion net of minority interest and related obligations that were eliminated as a result of the transaction. The acquisition was funded by debt. The fair value of the incremental individual assets and liabilities acquired approximates current book value. Accordingly, the purchase price was recorded as goodwill, which was allocated to multiple businesses. 15
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) Other minor business purchases and intangible asset acquisitions totaled $572, $384 and $61 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. NOTE 3 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS The change in the net carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 by business was as follows: Identifiable intangible assets as of June 30, 2005 and 2004 were comprised of: The amortization of intangible assets for the years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $198, $165 and $100, respectively. Estimated amortization expense over the next five years is as follows: 2006-$203; 2007-$171; 2008-$159; 2009-$149 and 2010-$144. Such estimates do not reflect the impact of future foreign exchange rate changes and the Gillette acquisition. NOTE 4 SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION Selected components of current and non-current liabilities were as follows: 16
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) NOTE 5 SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT The weighted average short-term interest rates were 3.5% and 1.5% as of June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively, including the effects of related interest rate swaps discussed in Note 6. - ------------------ (1) Debt issued by the ESOP is guaranteed by the Company and must be recorded as debt of the Company as discussed in Note 8. Long-term weighted average interest rates were 3.2% and 4.0% as of June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively, including the effects of related interest rate swaps and net investment hedges discussed in Note 6. The fair value of the long-term debt was $13,904 and $13,168 at June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Long-term debt maturities during the next five years are as follows: 2006-$2,606; 2007-$1,440; 2008-$816; 2009-$1,154 and 2010-$1,734. NOTE 6 RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks, such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity pricing. To manage the volatility related to these exposures, we evaluate exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of logical exposure netting and correlation. For the remaining exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions. Such derivative transactions, which are executed in accordance with our policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices, are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended and interpreted. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. At inception, we formally designate and document the qualifying financial instrument as a hedge of an underlying exposure. We formally assess, both at inception and at least quarterly on an ongoing basis, whether the financial instruments used in hedging transactions are effective at offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposure. Fluctuations in the derivative value generally are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the exposures being hedged. This offset is driven by the high degree of effectiveness between the exposure being hedged and the hedging instrument. Any ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings. Credit Risk We have established strict counterparty credit guidelines and normally enter into transactions with investment grade financial institutions. Counterparty exposures are monitored daily and downgrades in credit rating are reviewed on a timely basis. Credit risk arising from the inability of a counterparty to meet the terms of our financial instrument contracts generally is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparty's obligations exceed our obligations to the counterparty. We do not expect to incur material credit losses on our risk management or other financial instruments. 17
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) Interest Rate Management Our policy is to manage interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. To manage this risk in a cost efficient manner, we enter into interest rate swaps in which we agree to exchange with the counterparty, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. Interest rate swaps that meet specific conditions under SFAS No. 133 are accounted for as fair value and cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, the changes in the fair value of both the hedging instruments and the underlying debt obligations are immediately recognized in interest expense as equal and offsetting gains and losses. The fair value of these fair value hedges was a net asset of $17 and $45 at June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. All existing fair value hedges are 100% effective. As a result, there is no impact to earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the changes in fair value is reported in other comprehensive income and reclassified into interest expense over the life of the underlying debt. The fair value of these cash flow hedges was an asset of $3 at June 30, 2005. There were no such interest rate cash flow hedges at June 30, 2004. Foreign Currency Management We manufacture and sell our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The purpose of our foreign currency hedging program is to reduce the risk caused by short-term changes in exchange rates. We primarily utilize forward contracts and options with maturities of less than 18 months and currency swaps with maturities up to 5 years. These instruments are intended to offset the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on forecasted sales, inventory purchases, intercompany royalties and intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies and are therefore accounted for as cash flow hedges. The fair value of these instruments at June 30, 2005 and 2004 was $47 and $47 in assets and $131 and $140 in liabilities, respectively. The effective portion of the changes in fair value for these instruments is reported in other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line item and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. The ineffective portion, which is not material for any year presented, is immediately recognized in earnings. Certain instruments used to manage foreign exchange risk do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. In these cases, the change in value of the instruments is designed to offset the foreign currency impact of intercompany financing transactions, income from international operations and other balance sheet revaluations. The fair value of these instruments at June 30, 2005 and 2004 was $57 and $71 in assets and $108 and $26 in liabilities, respectively. The change in value of these instruments is immediately recognized in earnings. The net impact of such instruments, included in selling, general and administrative expense, was $18, $80 and $264 of gains in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which substantially offset foreign currency transaction and translation losses of the exposures being hedged. Net Investment Hedging We hedge certain of our net investment positions in major foreign subsidiaries. To accomplish this, we either borrow directly in foreign currency and designate a portion of foreign currency debt as a hedge of net investments in foreign subsidiaries or enter into foreign currency swaps that are designated as hedges of our related foreign net investments. Under SFAS No. 133, changes in the fair value of these instruments are immediately recognized in other comprehensive income, to offset the change in the value of the net investment being hedged. Currency effects of these hedges reflected in other comprehensive income were a $135 after-tax gain, a $348 after-tax loss and a $418 after-tax loss in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Accumulated net balances were a $451 and $586 after-tax loss in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Management Raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. To manage the volatility related to certain anticipated inventory purchases, we use futures and options with maturities generally less than one year and swap contracts with maturities up to five years. These market instruments are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133. Accordingly, the mark-to-market gain or loss on qualifying hedges is reported in other comprehensive income and reclassified into cost of products sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. Qualifying cash flow hedges currently recorded in other comprehensive income are not considered material. The mark-to-market gain or loss on non-qualifying, excluded and ineffective portions of hedges is immediately recognized in cost of products sold. Commodity hedging activity was not material to our financial statements for any of the years presented. 18
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) NOTE 7 EARNINGS PER SHARE AND STOCK OPTIONS Net Earnings Per Common Share Net earnings less preferred dividends (net of related tax benefits) are divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year to calculate basic net earnings per common share. Diluted net earnings per common share are calculated to give effect to stock options and assuming conversion of preferred stock (see Note 8). Net earnings and common shares balances used to calculate basic and diluted net earnings per share were as follows: (1) Despite being included currently in diluted net earnings per common share, the actual conversion to common stock occurs pursuant to the repayment of the ESOP debt through 2021. (2) Approximately 1 million in 2005, 38 million in 2004 and 66 million in 2003 of the Company's outstanding stock options were not included in the diluted net earnings per share calculation because to do so would have been antidilutive (i.e., the exercise price exceeded market value). Stock-Based Compensation We have a primary stock-based compensation plan under which stock options are granted annually to key managers and directors with exercise prices equal to the market price of 19
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) the underlying shares on the date of grant. Grants were made under plans approved by shareholders in 2001 and 2003. A total of 229 million shares of common stock were authorized for issuance under these plans of which 137 million remain available for grant. Grants issued since September 2002 are vested after three years and have a ten-year life. Grants issued from July 1998 through August 2002 are vested after three years and have a fifteen-year life, while grants issued prior to July 1998 are vested after one year and have a ten-year life. In addition to our key manager and director grants, we make other minor grants to employees of stock options, for which vesting terms and options lives are not substantially different. We also make minor grants of restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based grants to certain employees. Total compensation cost for these restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based grants, which are generally expensed at grant date, was $65, $46 and $18 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Effective July 1, 2005, we adopted FAS 123(R) on a modified retrospective basis. Total stock-based compensation expense for stock option grants was $459, $445 and $541 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for these stock-based compensation arrangements was $125, $120 and $143 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We have no specific policy to repurchase common shares to mitigate the dilutive impact of options; however, we have historically made adequate discretionary purchases, based on cash availability, market trends and other factors, to satisfy stock option exercise activity. In calculating the impact for options granted, we have estimated the fair value of each grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model for grants issued through December 31, 2004. Effective January 1, 2005, we utilize a binomial lattice-based model for the valuation of stock option grants. The utilization of the binomial lattice-based model did not have a significant impact on the valuation of stock options as compared to the Black-Scholes model. Assumptions utilized in the model are evaluated and revised, as necessary, to reflect market conditions and experience. Because lattice-based option valuation models incorporate ranges of assumptions for inputs, those ranges are disclosed for the period of time that lattice-based models were employed. Expected volatilities are based on a combination of historical volatility of our stock and implied volatilities of call options on our stock. We use historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination patterns within the valuation model. The expected term of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The interest rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. 20
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) A summary of option activity under the Plans as of June 30, 2005 and changes during the year then ended is presented below: The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted was $14.34, $12.50 and $10.99 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $526, $537 and $338 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The total fair value of options that vested during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $532, $620 and $718, respectively. At June 30, 2005, there was $535 of compensation cost that has not yet been recognized related to non-vested stock-based awards. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years. Cash received from options exercised was $455, $555 and $269 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from options exercises totaled $149, $161 and $104 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 21
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) NOTE 8 POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN The Company offers various postretirement benefits to its employees. Defined Contribution Retirement Plans The most prevalent employee pension plans offered are defined contribution plans, which cover substantially all employees in the U.S., as well as employees in certain other countries. These plans are fully funded. We generally make contributions to participants based on individual base salaries and years of service. In the U.S., the contribution is set annually. Total contributions have approximated 15% of total participants' annual wages and salaries for 2005, 2004 and 2003. The Company maintains The Procter & Gamble Profit Sharing Trust (Trust) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) to provide a portion of the funding for the U.S. defined contribution plan, as well as other retiree benefits. Operating details of the ESOP are provided at the end of this Note. The fair value of the ESOP Series A shares reduces our cash contribution required to fund the U.S. defined contribution plan. Defined contribution expense, which approximates our cash contribution to the plan that is funded in the subsequent year, was $203, $274 and $286 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Defined Benefit Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits Certain other employees, primarily outside the U.S., are covered by local defined benefit pension plans as well as other retiree benefit plans. The Company also provides certain other retiree benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, for substantially all U.S. employees who become eligible for these benefits when they meet minimum age and service requirements. Generally, the health care plans require cost sharing with retirees and pay a stated percentage of expenses, reduced by deductibles and other coverages. These benefits primarily are funded by ESOP Series B shares, as well as certain other assets contributed by the Company. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 introduced a Medicare prescription-drug benefit beginning in 2006 as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care plans that provide a benefit at least "actuarially equivalent" to the Medicare benefit. The impact of this Act was included in the June 30, 2004 measurement process for other retiree benefit plans. The Act did not have a material impact to the net periodic retiree medical benefit cost or to expected benefit payments. Obligation and Funded Status. We use a June 30 measurement date for our defined benefit retirement plans and other retiree benefit plans. The following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of these plans: 22
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) - ----------------- (1) For the pension benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation. For other retiree benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. (2) Predominantly non-U.S.-based defined benefit retirement plans. (3) Predominantly U.S.-based other postretirement benefit plans. The underfunding of pension benefits is primarily a function of the different funding incentives that exist outside of the U.S. In certain countries where we have major operations, there are no legal requirements or financial incentives provided to companies to pre-fund pension obligations. In these instances, benefit payments are typically paid directly from the Company's cash as they become due. 23
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit retirement plans was $4,610 and $3,822 at June 30, 2005 and June 30, 2004, respectively. Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of June 30, consist of the following: Net Periodic Benefit Cost. Components of the net periodic benefit cost were as follows: Assumptions. We determine our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis. These assumptions are weighted to reflect each country that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. The weighted-average assumptions for the defined benefit and other retiree benefit calculations, as well as assumed health care trend rates are as follows: - --------------------- (1) Determined as of end of year. (2) Determined as of beginning of year. (3) Rate is applied to current plan costs net of Medicare; estimated initial rate for "gross eligible charges" (charges inclusive of Medicare) is 7.7% for 2005 and 2004. Several factors are considered in developing the estimate for the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets. For the defined benefit plans, these include historical rates of return of broad equity and bond indices and projected long-term rates of return from pension investment consultants. The expected long-term rates of return for plan assets are 8%-9% for equities and 5%-6% bonds. The rate of return on other retiree benefit plan assets, comprised primarily of Company stock, is based on the long-term projected return of 9.5% and reflects the historical pattern 24
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) of favorable returns on the Company's stock relative to broader market indices (e.g., S&P 500). Assumed health care cost trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the other retiree benefit plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: Plan Assets. Our target asset allocation for the year ending June 30, 2006 and actual asset allocation by asset category as of June 30, 2005, and 2004, are as follows: - ----------------------- (1) Equity securities for other retiree plan assets include Company stock, net of Series B ESOP debt (see Note 5), of $2,604 and $2,744, as of June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our investment objective for defined benefit plan assets is to meet the plans' benefit obligations, while minimizing the potential for future required Company plan contributions. The investment strategies focus on asset class diversification, liquidity to meet benefit payments and an appropriate balance of long-term investment return and risk. Target ranges for asset allocations are determined by matching the actuarial projections of the plan's future liabilities and benefit payments with expected long-term rates of return on the assets, taking into account investment return volatility and correlations across asset classes. Plan assets are diversified across several investment managers and are generally invested in liquid funds that are selected to track broad market equity and bond indices. Investment risk is carefully controlled with plan assets rebalanced to target allocations on a periodic basis and continual monitoring of investment managers performance relative to the investment guidelines established with each investment manager. Cash Flows. Management's best estimate of our cash requirements for the defined benefit plans and other retiree benefit plans for the year ending June 30, 2006 is $241 and $18, respectively. For the defined benefit plans, this is comprised of expected benefit payments of $83, which are paid directly to participants of unfunded plans from employer assets, as well as expected contributions to funded plans of $158. For other retiree benefit plans, this is comprised of expected contributions that will be used directly for benefit payments. Expected contributions are dependent on many variables, including the variability of the market value of the plan assets as compared to the benefit obligation and other market or regulatory conditions. In addition, we take into consideration our business investment opportunities and resulting cash requirements. Accordingly, actual funding may differ significantly from current estimates. Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which include payments funded from the Company's assets, as discussed above, as well as payments paid from the plans are as follows: Employee Stock Ownership Plan The Company maintains the ESOP to provide funding for certain employee benefits discussed in the preceding paragraphs. The ESOP borrowed $1.00 billion in 1989 and the proceeds were used to purchase Series A ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the defined contribution retirement plan in the U.S. Principal and interest requirements were paid by the Trust from dividends on the preferred shares and from advances from the Company. The final payment for the original borrowing of $1.00 billion was made in 2004 and the remaining debt of the ESOP consists of amounts owed to the Company. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was $1.03 per share. The liquidation value is $6.82 per share. 25
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) In 1991, the ESOP borrowed an additional $1.00 billion. The proceeds were used to purchase Series B ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of retiree health care benefits. These shares are considered plan assets, net of the associated debt, of the Other Retiree Benefits plan discussed above. Debt service requirements are funded by preferred stock dividends and cash contributions and advances from the Company. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was $1.05 per share. The liquidation value is $12.96 per share. As permitted by Statement of Position (SOP) 93-6, "Employers Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans," we have elected, where applicable, to continue our practices, which are based on SOP 76-3, "Accounting Practices for Certain Employee Stock Ownership Plans." ESOP debt, which is guaranteed by the Company, is recorded as debt (see Note 5). Preferred shares issued to the ESOP are offset by the Reserve for ESOP Debt Retirement in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity. Advances to the ESOP are recorded as an increase in the Reserve for ESOP Debt Retirement. Interest incurred on the ESOP debt is recorded as interest expense. Dividends on all preferred shares, net of related tax benefits, are charged to retained earnings. As required by SOP 76-3, the preferred shares of the ESOP are allocated based on debt service requirements, net of advances made by the Company to the Trust. The number of preferred shares outstanding at June 30, was as follows: For purposes of calculating diluted net earnings per common share, the preferred shares held by the ESOP are considered converted from inception. Diluted net earnings are calculated assuming that all preferred shares are converted to common, and therefore are adjusted to reflect the incremental ESOP funding that would be required due to the difference in dividend rate between preferred and common shares (see Note 7). 26
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) NOTE 9 INCOME TAXES Under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," income taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable for the current year and for the impact of deferred tax liabilities and assets, which represent future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the financial statements than for tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are established using the enacted statutory tax rates and are adjusted for changes in such rates in the period of change. Earnings before income taxes consisted of the following: Management judgment is required in determining tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. Management believes its tax positions and related provisions reflected in the consolidated financial statements are fully supportable. We establish reserves for additional income taxes that may be challenged by local authorities and may not be fully sustained, despite our belief that the underlying tax positions are fully supportable. In such cases, the reserves for additional taxes are based on management's best estimate of the ultimate outcome. These reserves are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, including progress on tax audits, changes in interpretations of tax laws, developments in case law and closing of statutes of limitations. Our tax provision includes the impact of recording reserves and any changes thereto. We have a number of tax audits in process and have open tax years with various significant taxing jurisdictions that range primarily from 1993 to 2005. Although the results of current tax audits and adjustments from other tax positions related to open tax years have not been finalized, we believe based on currently available information that the ultimate outcomes will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 27
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) The income tax provision consisted of the following: A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to our actual income tax rate is provided below: Taxes impacted shareholders' equity with credits of $237 and $304 for the years ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These primarily relate to the tax effects of net investment hedges and the minimum pension liability and tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "AJCA") permits U.S. corporations to repatriate earnings of foreign subsidiaries at a one-time favorable effective federal statutory tax rate of 5.25% as compared to the highest corporate tax rate of 35%. We plan to repatriate approximately $7.2 billion in earnings previously considered indefinitely invested. The income tax expense associated with this repatriation is $295 for the year ended June 30, 2005. We have undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of approximately $10.3 billion at June 30, 2005, for which deferred taxes have not been provided. Such earnings are considered indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiaries. If such earnings were repatriated, additional tax expense may result, although the calculation of such additional taxes is not practicable. The amount of unremitted earnings for which no tax has been 28
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) provided decreased in 2005 due to our repatriation plan under the AJCA. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were comprised of the following: Net operating loss carryforwards were $1,418 and $1,398 at June 30, 2005 and June 30, 2004, respectively. If unused, $505 will expire between 2006 and 2025. The remainder, totaling $913 at June 30, 2005, may be carried forward indefinitely. 29
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) NOTE 10 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Guarantees In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures, we may provide routine indemnifications (e.g., retention of previously existing environmental, tax and employee liabilities) whose terms range in duration and often are not explicitly defined. Generally, the maximum obligation under such indemnifications is not explicitly stated and, as a result, the overall amount of these obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, we have not made significant payments for these indemnifications. We believe that if we were to incur a loss in any of these matters, the loss would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In certain situations, we guarantee loans for suppliers and customers. The total amount of guarantees issued under such arrangements is not material. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, under FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," that have a material impact on our financial statements. Purchase Commitments We have purchase commitments for materials, supplies, services and property, plant and equipment as part of the normal course of business. Due to the proprietary nature of many of our materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early termination. We do not expect to incur penalty payments under these provisions that would materially affect our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations in any individual year. Operating Leases We lease certain property and equipment for varying periods. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases are as follows: 2006 - $215; 2007 - $162; 2008 - $126; 2009 - $114; 2010 - $101; and $259 thereafter. Litigation We are subject to various lawsuits and claims with respect to matters such as governmental regulations, income taxes and other actions arising out of the normal course of business. We are also subject to contingencies pursuant to environmental laws and regulations that in the future may require us to take action to correct the effects on the environment of prior manufacturing and waste disposal practices. Accrued environmental liabilities were not material. While considerable uncertainty exists, in the opinion of management and our counsel, the ultimate resolution of the various lawsuits and claims will not materially affect our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. 30
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) NOTE 11 SEGMENT INFORMATION We are organized under three Global Business Units as follows: - - P&G Beauty includes retail and professional hair care, skin care, feminine care, cosmetics, fine fragrances and personal cleansing. - - P&G Family Health includes the Health Care and Baby Care and Family Care businesses. Health Care includes oral care, personal health care, pharmaceuticals and pet health and nutrition. Baby Care and Family Care includes diapers, baby wipes, bath tissue and kitchen towels. - - P&G Household Care includes the Fabric Care and Home Care and Snacks and Coffee businesses. Fabric Care and Home Care includes laundry detergents, dish care, fabric enhancers, surface care and air care. Snacks and Coffee includes coffee, snacks and commercial products. Under U.S. GAAP, we have five reportable segments: P&G Beauty; Health Care; Baby Care and Family Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Snacks and Coffee. The accounting policies of the businesses are generally the same as those described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Differences from these policies and U.S. GAAP primarily reflect: income taxes, which are reflected in the businesses using estimated local statutory rates; the recording of fixed assets at historical exchange rates in certain high inflation economies; and the treatment of certain unconsolidated investees. Certain unconsolidated investees are managed as integral parts of our business units for management reporting purposes. Accordingly, these partially owned operations are reflected as consolidated subsidiaries in business results, with 100% recognition of the individual income statement line items through before-tax earnings. Eliminations to adjust these line items to U.S. GAAP are included in Corporate. In determining after-tax earnings for the businesses, we eliminate the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to minority interest, and apply statutory tax rates. Adjustments to arrive at our effective tax rate are included in Corporate. Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities that are not reflected in the operating results used internally to measure and evaluate the businesses, as well as eliminations to adjust management reporting principles to U.S. GAAP. Operating activities in Corporate include the results of incidental businesses managed at the corporate level along with the elimination of individual revenues and expenses generated by companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control. Operating elements also comprise certain employee benefit costs and other general corporate items. The non-operating elements include financing and investing activities. In addition, Corporate includes the historical results of certain divested businesses, including the Juice business, which was divested in August of 2004. Corporate assets primarily include cash, investment securities and goodwill. We had net sales in the U.S. of $25,342, $23,688 and $21,853 for the years ended 31
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Assets in the U.S. totaled $25,399 and $23,687 as of June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for 16%, 17% and 18% of consolidated net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 32
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (millions of dollars except per share amounts or otherwise specified) NOTE 12 QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) (1) The June 30, 2005 quarter includes a $295 tax provision related to foreign earnings to be repatriated under AJCA, partially offset by a reversal of a tax provision initially recorded in the March 31, 2005 quarter for anticipated dividends from foreign subsidiaries that were subsequently incorporated into our AJCA repatriation plans. 33

. . . Exhibit 99-3 Revised Financial Summary (unaudited) FINANCIAL SUMMARY (UNAUDITED) (Amounts in millions except per share amounts) (1) Restructuring program charges, on an after-tax basis, totaled $538, $706, $1,475, $688 and $285 for 2003, 2002, 2001, 2000 and 1999 respectively. 1

Exhibit 99-4 Deloitte & Touche LLP Consent CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following documents of our report dated August 9, 2005, except as to Notes 1, 7, 9, and 11, which are as of November 2, 2005 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-based Payment" and the change in the Company's method of accounting for Treasury Stock), relating to the consolidated financial statements of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries, appearing in this Current Report on Form 8-K of The Procter & Gamble Company for the year ended June 30, 2005. 1. Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-31855 on Form S-4 (now S-8) for the 1982 Noxell Employees' Stock Option Plan and the 1984 Noxell Employees' Stock Option Plan; 2. Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 33-49289 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble 1992 Stock Plan; 3. Registration Statement No. 33-47656 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble International Stock Ownership Plan; 4. Registration Statement No. 33-50273 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble Commercial Company Employees' Savings Plan; 5. Registration Statement No. 33-51469 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan; 6. Registration Statement No. 333-05715 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble Profit Sharing Trust and Employee Stock Ownership Plan; 7. Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement No. 33-59257 on Form S-3 for The Procter & Gamble Shareholder Investment Program; 8. Registration Statement No. 333-14381 on Form S-8 for Profit Sharing Retirement Plan of The Procter & Gamble Commercial Company; 9. Registration Statement No. 333-14397 on Form S-8 for Procter & Gamble Subsidiaries Savings Plan; 10. Registration Statement No. 333-21783 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version); 11. Registration Statement No. 333-37905 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble Future Shares Plan; 12. Registration Statement No. 333-51213 on Form S-8 for Group Profit Sharing, Incentive, and Employer Contribution Plan (France);
13. Registration Statement No. 333-51219 on Form S-8 for Procter & Gamble Ireland Employees Share Ownership Plan; 14. Registration Statement No. 333-51221 on Form S-8 for Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Japan); 15. Registration Statement No. 333-51223 on Form S-8 for Savings and Thrift Plan (Saudi Arabia); 16. Registration Statement No. 333-34606 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble Future Shares Plan; 17. Registration Statement No. 333-40264 on Form S-8 for Savings and Thrift Plan Saudi Arabia; 18. Registration Statement No. 333-44034 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble International Stock Ownership Plan; 19. Registration Statement No. 333-47132 on Form S-8 for Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Japan); 20. Registration Statement No. 333-49764 on Form S-3 for The Procter & Gamble U.K. Share Investment Scheme; 21. Registration Statement No. 333-75030 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan; 22. Registration Statement No. 333-100561 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble (U.K.) 1-4-1 Plan; 23. Registration Statement No. 333-108753 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble Profit Sharing Trust and Employee Stock Ownership Plan; 24. Registration Statement No. 333-108991 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version); 25. Registration Statement No. 333-108992 on Form S-8 for Savings and Thrift Plan (Saudi Arabia); 26. Registration Statement No. 333-108993 on Form S-8 for Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Japan); 27. Registration Statement No. 333-108994 on Form S-8 for Procter & Gamble Ireland Employees Share Plan; 28. Registration Statement No. 333-108995 on Form S-8 for Group Profit Sharing, Incentive, and Employer Contribution Plan (France);
29. Registration Statement No. 333-108997 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble International Stock Ownership Plan; 30. Registration Statement No. 333-108998 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan; 31. Registration Statement No. 333-108999 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble 1992 Stock Plan; 32. Registration Statement No. 333-111304 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan; 33. Registration Statement No. 333-111305 on Form S-8 for The Procter & Gamble U.K. Share Investment Scheme; 34. Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 333-113515 on Form S-3 for The Procter & Gamble Company Debt Securities and Warrants; 35. Amendment No. 3 to Registration Statement No. 333-123309 on Form S-4 for the Procter & Gamble Company; and 36. Registration Statement No. 333-128859 on Form S-8 for certain employee benefit plans of The Gillette Company (2004 Long - Term Incentive Plan of The Gillette Company; 1971 Stock Option Plan of The Gillette Company; James M. Kilts Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan; The Gillette Company Employees' Savings Plan; The Gillette Company Supplemental Savings Plan; The Gillette Company Global Employee Stock Ownership Plan (GESOP)) DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP - --------------------- Deloitte & Touche LLP Cincinnati, Ohio November 2, 2005

. . . Exhibit 99-5 Revised Computation of Earnings per share THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Computation of Earnings Per Share Amounts in millions except per share amounts (1) Despite being included currently in diluted net earnings per common share, the actual conversion to common stock occurs pursuant to the repayment of the ESOP debt through 2021. (2) Approximately 1 million in 2005, 38 million in 2004 and 66 million in 2003 of the Company's outstanding stock options were not included in the diluted net earnings per share calculation because to do so would have been antidilutive (i.e., the exercise price exceeded market value). 1

. . . Exhibit 99-6 Revised Computation of Ratio of Earning to Fixed Charges THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges Millions of Dollars (1) Considered to be representative of interest factor in rental expense. 1


