FILE:PG/PG-8K-20060223172226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (
513) 983-1100
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     On February 23, 2006, The Procter & Gamble Company (the "Company") provided a presentation at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York 2006 Conference, which was previously announced and webcast. Certain presentation materials concerning the Gillette integration and Company financial measures are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the accompanying reconciliation pursuant to Regulation G is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. The Company is furnishing this 8-K pursuant to Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure".
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
February 23, 2006
99.1      Certain presentation materials selected from the Analyst Meeting held on February 23, 2006
99.2      Reconciliation

 
EXHIBIT 99.1  
1  
 
2  
 
3  
 
4  
 
5  
 
6  
 
7  
 
8  
 
9  
 
10  
 
11  
 
12  

 
Exhibit 99.2
The preceding presentation includes the disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures. In accordance with the SEC's Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the presentation and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.
Sales Growth Excluding Foreign Exchange is a measure of the company's net sales growth versus prior year excluding the impact of year-on-year changes in exchange rates.
Sales Growth Excluding Foreign Exchange
.
This measure is equivalent to "Sales Growth Excluding Foreign Exchange" (above) and is a measure that was used by Gillette before the acquisition. It is used in this presentation to maintain consistency in terminology for the Gillette business with pre-acquisition terminology.
Gillette Constant Dollar Sales Growth
.
. Organic sales growth measures sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons. The Company believes this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying results and trends by providing sales on a consistent basis. For example, this measure excludes the impact of the Gillette acquisition on sales growth in FY06.
Organic Sales Growth
. This measure is defined as sales growth excluding the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, and foreign exchange on the Company's pre-Gillette businesses. This measure was developed to differentiate between organic sales growth stemming from the Company's pre-Gillette businesses and growth due to the addition of Gillette.
Base Organic Sales Growth
This measure is defined as the Company's Operating Margin excluding the impacts of the Gillette acquisition. The Company believes this provides investors with an important perspective given the significant impact that the Gillette acquisition has on operating income. The table below provides a reconciliation of reported Operating Income growth to Operating Income excluding Gillette Impacts growth:
P&G Base Business Operating Income Growth.
 
. Core diluted net earnings per share referenced in this presentation exclude restructuring charges from reported diluted net earnings per share. The table below provides a reconciliation of reported diluted net earnings per share to core diluted net earnings per share:
Core Diluted Net Earnings Per Share Growth
The restructuring program began in 1999 as part of the Company's Organization 2005 initiative and was substantially completed at the end of fiscal year 2003. Restructuring program charges include separation related costs, asset write-downs, accelerated depreciation and other costs directly associated with the Company's reorganization. Restructuring program charges are not included in business segment results, but instead are reported in corporate. The Company believes investors gain additional perspective of underlying business trends and results by providing a measure of earnings excluding restructuring program charges  particularly now that the program is substantially completed. This is consistent with the Company's business segment reporting and internal management goal-setting, and is a factor used in determining at-risk compensation levels. A historical reconciliation of reported-to-core financials during the Organization 2005 initiative is available on the Company's website at www.pg.com/investor. Going forward, the Company will continue to conduct projects consistent with the focus of productivity improvement and margin expansion. Beginning with fiscal year 2005, charges associated with these future projects will be absorbed in normal operating costs.
. This measure is used to gain a better understanding of the EPS trend of the Company excluding the impact of the Gillette acquisition. The Company believes this provides investors with an important perspective given the significant impact that the Gillette acquisition has on reported earnings. The table below provides a reconciliation of reported Diluted Net Earnings Per Share to EPS excluding Gillette Dilution:
Earnings Per Share Excluding Gillette Dilution
. This is a measure of Gillette GBU EBIT year-on-year growth excluding the impact of purchase accounting adjustments related to the Gillette acquisition and excluding the impact of non-recurring charges in the Gillette base period. The Company believes this measure provides important perspective for comparing post-acquisition results with pre-acquisition results for the Gillette GBU.
EBIT Growth Excluding Purchase Accounting Charges and non-recurring base period items
Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. The Company's long-term target is to generate free cash at or above 90 percent of net earnings. Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management. The reconciliation of free cash flow and free cash flow productivity is provided below:
Free Cash Flow Productivity
.


