FILE:PG/PG-8K-20081031161422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM 5.02 (b) & (c)      DEPARTURE OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
 
On October 28, 2008, The Procter & Gamble Company (the Company) announced that Clayton C. Daley, Jr., Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, will retire effective September 16, 2009. The Company also announced that Jon R. Moeller (44), currently Vice President & Treasurer, has been elected to succeed Mr. Daley as Chief Financial Officer effective January 1, 2009. 
During the past five years, Mr. Moeller held the following positions at the Company:  Vice President & Treasurer (July 2007-present), Vice President  Finance & Accounting, P&G Beauty & Health (June 2006-June 2007), Vice President  Finance & Accounting, P&G Beauty (June 2005-June 2006), Manager  Finance, Global Beauty Care (July 2004-June 2005), and Manager  Finance & Accounting, Global Beauty & Feminine Care and Global Health Care (February 2003-June 2004).
In addition, Mr. Moellers wife, Lisa Sauer, is a long-tenured employee of the Company who currently holds the position of Manager in our Oral Care business.  Her total compensation in the last year was approximately $750,000, consisting of salary, bonus, equity grants and retirement benefits. Her compensation is consistent with the Companys overall compensation principles based on her years of experience and position within the Company.
The Company is filing this 8-K pursuant to Item 5.02(b) and (c), "Departure of Certain Officers; Appointment of Certain Officers."
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
BY
:   /s/ EJ Wunsch      
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 E. J. Wunsch
  
Assistant Secretary
  
     
October 31, 2008
99.    News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated October 28, 2008

                                                                           
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PROCTER &GAMBLE ANNOUNCES ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGES
 
 CINCINNATI, Oct. 28, 2008 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) today announced the following organizational changes:
   
  
 
 
 Clayt has been a strong strategic partner to me and to P&Gs business leaders over the past decade, Lafley said.  Hes helped focus management attention on cash productivity.  Hes set high standards for corporate governance and stewardship.  He played a pivotal role in making Total Shareholder Return a business evaluation and management compensation measure.  Hes helped P&G maintain a healthy balance sheet and strong credit rating, which are particularly important in todays economic environment.  And he played a pivotal role in the acquisition and successful integration of Gillette, the largest acquisition in the history of the consumer products industry.
   
  
 
 On Moellers appointment, Lafley said:  Jon Moeller has been an integral part of P&Gs leadership team for nearly a decade.  He brings strategic leadership, tough-minded discipline, and a 20-year track record of strong business and financial results.  Jon has diverse experience across virtually all P&G businesses and finance disciplines.  He has worked in nearly every part of P&Gs business  from Laundry and Cleaning in China to Beauty and Health globally.  Hes led major merger and acquisition operations, including the large and complex Wella acquisition and the recent divestiture of Folgers.  Most recently, as Treasurer, he has been leading P&G Investor Relations and has also established the capital structure, cash management and AA-
   
  
credit rating that have put P&G in a strong financial position for the near and long term.  Jon has worked closely with Clayt Daley for many years and they have developed a smooth transition plan.  He is the right leader to succeed Clayt as P&Gs CFO.
 
About Procter & Gamble
Three billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Folgers, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Actonel, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 138,000 employees working in over 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
 
 
 
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570
 
:
P&G Investor Relations Contacts
Mark Erceg, 513.983.2414
John Chevalier, 513.983.9974


