FILE:PG/PG-8K-20080814170010.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02(e)    COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
 
On August 12, 2008, the Compensation & Leadership Development Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of The Procter & Gamble Company (P&G) granted Clayton C. Daley, Jr., Vice-Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, a special equity award of $1,500,000 in recognition of Mr. Daleys integral role in the valuation, negotiation and acquisition of The Gillette Company (Gillette) and his successful leadership of the integration of Gillette into P&G. This grant reflects Mr. Daleys involvement and oversight of all aspects of the transaction, which was the largest and one of the most successful in the Companys history. The grant will be made in the form of restricted stock units granted under the Companys 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan using the closing price for the Companys Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on August 12, 2008.
 
In addition, the Committee approved a change to the Companys Short Term Achievement Reward Program (STAR). STAR Awards were previously based on three components: a Total Company Factor, a Business Unit Factor and a Gillette Integration Factor. Because the Company has now successfully completed the Gillette integration, the Committee approved the removal of the Gillette Integration Factor from the STAR calculation formula. A summary of the revised STAR Program is attached as Exhibit 99.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
 
BY:  
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH    
   
   
   
   
 E. J. Wunsch
 Assistant Secretary
 August 14, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.  STAR Program Summary
 
 
 
 
The Short Term Achievement Reward (STAR) Program is The Procter & Gamble Companys (the Company) annual bonus program designed to motivate and reward employees for achieving outstanding short term business results for the Company and its subsidiaries.  STAR awards are made pursuant to authority delegated to the Compensation & Leadership Development Committee (the C&LD Committee) by the Board of Directors for awarding compensation to the Companys principal officers and for making awards under the Procter & Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2001 Plan) and/or the 2004 Gillette Long Term Incentive Plan (the Gillette Plan).
 
I.           
ELIGIBILITY
 
Employees at Band 3 or above and who worked at least 28 days (four calendar weeks) during the applicable fiscal year are eligible to participate.  Eligible employees who do not work a full schedule (e.g., leaves of absence, disability, and less-than-full time schedules) in the fiscal year in which the award is payable may have awards pro-rated.
 
 
II.           
CALCULATION
 
The individual STAR Award is calculated as follows:
 
() x ()x ()
STAR Target
Business Unit Performance Factor
 
Total Company Factor
 
 
(Base Salary) x (STAR Target percent)
 
at the end of the applicable fiscal year is used to calculate the STAR award.
Base Salary
 
Generally, the is dependent on the individuals position and level (Band) in the organization.  The STAR Target percent for participants at Band 7 or above is set by the C&LD Committee.  The STAR Target percent for all other participants is set by the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, with the concurrence of the Global Human Resources Officer, pursuant to authority delegated to them by the C&LD Committee. If an individuals position and/or level changes during a fiscal year, and that change results in a new STAR Target Percent, the STAR Target Percent is pro-rated according to the amount of time in each position/level during the fiscal year. 
STAR Target Percent
 
 
 
While the STAR Committee makes recommendations to the C&LD Committee regarding the performance factor percentages to be applied to all STAR awards (except those for the STAR Committee members), only the final award amounts for principal officers are approved specifically by the C&LD Committee.  The C&LD Committee has delegated the approval of STAR awards for other participants to the Chief Executive Officer. The C&LD Committee has discretion to use, increase or decrease the performance factor percentages recommended by the STAR Committee and/or to choose not to pay STAR awards during a given year.
 
Each year the C&LD Committee approves a cash pool for STAR awards equal to a percentage of basic net earnings multiplied by the number of common shares outstanding, and the C&LD Committee sets a limit on the portion of that pool which can be awarded to each of the Named Executives subject to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Service code.  This ensures that any STAR awards paid to such executives are fully tax deductible by the Company.
 
III.           
TIMING AND FORM
 
STAR awards are determined after the close of the fiscal year and are paid on or about September 15.  The award form choices and relevant considerations are explained in payment preference materials generally in the form of .  Participants receive written notice of their award detailing the calculation, generally in the form of .  The grant letters used for those employees who elect to receive awards in stock options or restricted stock units are generally in the form of .
Appendix 1
Appendix 2
Appendix 3
 
Generally, STAR awards are paid in cash. However, before the end of the calendar year preceding the award date, eligible participants can elect to receive their STAR award in forms other than cash.  Alternatives to cash include stock options, local deferral programs (depending on local regulations in some countries), or restricted stock units and/or deferred compensation (for participants also in the Business Growth Program).  The Company converts cash to other forms of payment (e.g., stock options, restricted stock units, etc.) using a conversion factor that is reviewed and approved by the C&LD Committee annually.  Any STAR award paid in stock options, restricted stock units or other form of equity shall be awarded pursuant to this program and the terms and conditions of the 2001 Plan, the Gillette Plan or any successor stock plan approved in accordance with applicable listing standards, as they may be revised from time to time.
 
IV.           
SEPARATION FROM THE COMPANY
 
 
 
Eligible participants who have left the Company will receive a cash payment (equity such as stock options and RSUs can only be issued to active employees)on the same timing as STAR awards or as soon thereafter as possible.
 
 
 
V.         
CHANGE IN CONTROL
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if there is a Change in Control in any fiscal year, STAR awards will be calculated in accordance with Section II above, but each factor will be calculated for the period from the beginning of the fiscal year in which a Change in Control occurred up to and including the date of such Change in Control (CIC Period).  Change in Control shall have the same meaning as defined in the 2001 Plan.
 
 
VI.           
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 
While any STAR award amount received by one individual for any year shall be considered as earned remuneration in addition to salary paid, it shall be understood that this plan does not give to any officer or employee any contract rights, express or implied, against any Company for any STAR award or for compensation in addition to the salary paid to him or her, or any right to question the action of the Board of Directors or the C&LD or STAR Committees.
 
Each award to the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Vice-Chairs, Group Presidents, Presidents, Global Function Heads and Senior Vice Presidents and equivalents, made pursuant to this plan, is subject to the Senior Executive Recoupment Policy adopted by the C&LD Committee in December 2006.
 
This program document may be amended at any time by the C&LD Committee.
 


