FILE:PG/PG-8K-20081029191250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 29, 2008, The Procter & Gamble Company ("P&G"), an Ohio corporation, issued a news release announcing the commencement of the averaging period and clarifying the conditions for its exchange offer related to the separation of P&G's coffee business and the previously announced merger of The Folgers Coffee Company ("Folgers") and The J. M. Smucker Company ("Smucker"), pursuant to which a Smucker subsidiary will merge with and into Folgers, with Folgers surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Smucker. A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
In addition, on October 29, 2008, P&G also announced the following information regarding Folgers' performance in the first quarter of fiscal 2009:
"As previously disclosed, the company plans to separate the Folgers business in the October  December quarter. This business is comprised of P&G's coffee category, a component of P&G's Snacks, Coffee and Pet Health reportable segment, as well as the coffee portion of the P&G Professional (PGP) business.
The company provided a brief summary of results for the Folgers business for the July  September quarter. These results represent the business as currently operated as a component of P&G, including PGP, and are not directly comparable to the historical results of Folgers as a stand alone entity as presented in its recently filed registration statement related to the transaction with The J. M. Smucker Company. The differences are primarily related to P&G management reporting conventions and do not have a material impact on the underlying business trends.
Folgers net sales for July-September quarter were up 11 percent to $445 million primarily due to the benefit of pricing actions in prior periods to recover higher green coffee bean costs. Volume increased one percent as gains in retail channels were offset by a decline in PGP volume. Market share was flat period over period.
After tax earnings for the Folgers business for the July-September quarter were $67.4 million, an increase of 10 percent versus the prior year period. Earnings increased behind the benefit of higher unit volume, cost savings, and favorable green coffee bean market conditions. Results for the quarter also included the benefit of $13 million in reduced overhead costs, primarily as the result of reduced current period overhead allocations from P&G in preparation for the planned separation. These benefits were offset by $17 million in insurance proceeds in the base period related to Hurricane Katrina.
Consistent with Folgers pricing policy, Folgers recently announced a list price decrease across the majority of its product offering in response to declining green coffee bean prices."
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Smucker and Folgers have filed registration statements with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") registering the shares of Folgers common stock and Smucker common shares to be issued to P&G shareholders in connection with the Folgers transaction. In connection with the exchange offer for the shares of common stock of Folgers, P&G filed on October 8, 2008 a tender offer statement with the SEC. P&G shareholders are urged to read the prospectus included in the registration statements, the tender offer statement and any other relevant documents, because they contain important information about Smucker, Folgers and the proposed transaction. The prospectus, tender offer statement and other documents relating to the proposed transaction can be obtained free of charge from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The documents can also be obtained free of charge from P&G upon written request to The Procter and Gamble Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572 or by calling (800) 742-6253, or from Smucker upon written request to The J. M. Smucker Company, Shareholder Relations, Strawberry Lane, Orrville, Ohio 44667 or by calling (330) 684-3838
This Current Report on Form 8-K shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CINCINNATI, Oct. 29, 2008  The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE: PG) today announced that the averaging period for its pending exchange offer for P&G common stock will commence as scheduled on October 30, 2008 and end on and include November 3, 2008, after which time the final exchange ratio by which P&G common stock will be exchanged for Folgers common stock will be calculated. P&G will announce the final exchange ratio by press release no later than 9:00 a.m. on November 4, 2008. The shares of Folgers common stock issued for exchange of P&G common stock will automatically be converted on a one-for-one basis into the right to receive common shares of The J.M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM).
The exchange offer will expire at 12:00 midnight, Eastern Standard Time, on November 5, 2008, unless extended. P&G currently expects that immediately following the expiration of the exchange offer it will accept all validly tendered shares for exchange and effect the closing of the merger of Folgers and a Smucker subsidiary. The transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including a minimum tender condition.
P&G has determined that for purposes of the exchange offer, any decline in the U.S. financial markets generally since October 7, 2008 through October 29, 2008 did not constitute an extraordinary or material adverse change in the U.S. financial markets generally. In addition, P&G has waived the 15% decline in either the Dow Jones Average of Industrial Stocks or The Standard & Poor's 500 Index from October 7, 2008 through the remainder of the exchange offer period as a specific quantitative standard for determining whether there has been an extraordinary and material decline in the U.S. financial markets generally.
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated is serving as the dealer manager for the exchange offer.
About Procter & Gamble
Three billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene(R), Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Folgers, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Actonel, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community consists of 138,000 employees working in over 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
Forward-Looking Statements
All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this release, are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on financial data, market assumptions and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could differ significantly from our expectations. In addition to the risks and uncertainties noted in this release, there are certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These include: (1) the ability to achieve business plans, including with respect to lower income consumers and growing existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity, especially with respect to the product categories and geographical markets (including developing markets) in which the Company has chosen to focus; (2) the ability to successfully
execute, manage and integrate key acquisitions and mergers and to achieve the cost and growth synergies in accordance with the stated goals of these transactions; (3) the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (4) the ability to maintain key manufacturing and supply sources (including sole supplier and plant manufacturing sources); (5) the ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property, and competition law matters), and to resolve pending matters within current estimates; (6) the ability to successfully implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans in manufacturing and overhead areas, including the Company's outsourcing projects; (7) the ability to successfully manage currency (including currency issues in volatile countries), debt, interest rate and commodity cost exposures and significant credit or liquidity issues; (8) the ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in the Company's significant geographical markets, as well as any political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions due to a global or regional credit crisis or terrorist and other hostile activities; (9) the ability to successfully manage competitive factors, including prices, promotional incentives and trade terms for products; (10) the ability to obtain patents and respond to technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to competitors; (11) the ability to successfully manage increases in the prices of raw materials used to make the Company's products; (12) the ability to stay close to consumers in an era of increased media fragmentation; (13) the ability to stay on the leading edge of innovation and maintain a positive reputation on our brands; and (14) the ability to successfully separate the Company's coffee business. For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected herein, please refer to our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports.
Additional Information
Smucker and Folgers have filed registration statements with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") registering the shares of Folgers common stock and Smucker common shares to be issued to P&G shareholders in connection with the Folgers transaction. In connection with the exchange offer for the shares of common stock of Folgers, P&G filed on October 8, 2008 a tender offer statement with the SEC. P&G shareholders are urged to read the prospectus included in the registration statements, the tender offer statement and any other relevant documents, because they contain important information about Smucker, Folgers and the proposed transaction. The prospectus, tender offer statement and other documents relating to the proposed transaction can be obtained free of charge from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The documents can also be obtained free of charge from P&G upon written request to The Procter and Gamble Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572 or by calling (800) 742-6253, or from Smucker upon written request to The J. M. Smucker Company, Shareholder Relations, Strawberry Lane, Orrville, Ohio 44667 or by calling (330) 684-3838
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
:
P&G Media Contact
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570
:
P&G Investor Relations Contacts
Mark Erceg, 513.983.2414
John Chevalier, 513.983.9974


