FILE:PG/PG-8K-20080805082215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
              BY:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
/S/ E. J. WUNSCH _________
   
 
E. J. Wunsch
Assistant Secretary
August 5, 2008
 
 
 
99. 
   
News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated August 5, 2008.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CINCINNATI, Aug. 5, 2008 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) announced net sales growth of 10 percent for the April - June quarter to $21.3 billion and nine percent net sales growth for the fiscal year to $83.5 billion.  Organic sales were up five percent for both the quarter and the fiscal year.  This marks the seventh year and 24th consecutive quarter in which P&G delivered top-line growth at or above the companys targets.
Diluted net earnings per share increased 37 percent for the quarter to $0.92 and 20 percent to $3.64 for the fiscal year.  The quarter and fiscal year included net tax benefits of $0.12 and $0.14 respectively, due to a number of significant adjustments to tax reserves in the U.S. and other countries.  Quality of earnings growth was strong as operating profit increased 13 percent for the quarter and 11 percent for the fiscal year behind sales growth and operating margin improvement.  Operating margin was up due to overhead productivity improvements and increased pricing, which combined, more than offset a significant increase in commodity and energy costs.
Once again, P&G delivered top and bottom line growth at or above the companys targets - while also successfully completing the integration of Gillette, said Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, A.G. Lafley.  Were leading innovations across the brand portfolio, building value for consumers and customers which is critical to delivering good results in a difficult economic environment.  The strength of the portfolio and our focus on innovation and productivity give us confidence that we will continue to deliver sustained growth in the coming year and beyond.
- More - -
Executive Summary
April - - June Quarter Discussion
Net sales for the quarter increased 10 percent to $21.3 billion.  Organic volume, which excludes a negative one percent impact from the Western European tissue divestiture, increased four percent.  Price increases added three percent to net sales.  Favorable foreign exchange contributed six percent to sales growth.  Disproportionate growth in developing regions and product mix shifts drove a negative two percent mix impact.  Organic sales increased five percent.  Several new initiatives were launched during the quarter including Pantene Beautiful Lengths, Gillette Hair Care, Pampers UnderJams, Oral-B CrossAction Pro-Health, Actonel Once-a-Month and Olay Regenerist 14 Day Skin Intervention and Definity Color Recapture Moisturizer.
 
Net earnings increased 33 percent to $3.0 billion behind strong sales growth, improved operating margin and a lower tax rate.  Operating margin increased 50-basis points as overhead productivity improvements more than offset a decline in gross margin.  Diluted net earnings per share increased 37 percent for the quarter to $0.92.
Gross margin declined by 160-basis points to 49.2% during the quarter.  Higher commodity and energy costs reduced gross margin by about 300-basis points.  About half was offset by pricing, cost savings projects and scale leverage from volume growth.
Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) were down 210-basis points for the quarter to 31.1% of net sales primarily due to volume scale leverage, Gillette-related cost synergies and overhead productivity improvements.
Operating cash flow was up 14% to $4.1 billion for the quarter behind strong earnings growth and an increase in accounts payable.  Inventory was up primarily due to higher material costs.  Free cash flow, defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, was $2.9 billion during the quarter and 96% of net earnings.  Capital expenditures were 5.6% of net sales during the quarter, bringing the fiscal year level to 3.6% of net sales.
The company repurchased $2.0 billion of P&G stock during the quarter as part of the companys previously announced three-year $24 - $30 billion share repurchase program.  The company has repurchased $10 billion of P&G stock since the inception of this program in July 2007.  Combined with $4.7 billion in dividends, P&G distributed nearly $15 billion to shareholders in the fiscal year and over 120% of net earnings.
Business Segment Discussion for the Quarter
The following provides perspective on the companys April - June quarter results by business segment.
Beauty GBU
Health & Well-Being GBU
Household Care GBU
Fiscal Year Discussion
Net sales in fiscal 2008 increased nine percent to $83.5 billion behind four percent volume growth.  Volume growth was driven by continued double-digit growth in developing regions.  Growth from new innovations on key brands was driven by the Head & Shoulders brand restage, Always Envive, Gucci by Gucci, Venus Embrace, Cover Girl Lash Blast, Nice N Easy Perfect 10, Febreze Candles and the Dunkin Donuts coffee expansion.  Fusion became the companys 24th billion-dollar brand.  Price increases added one percent to net sales and favorable foreign exchange contributed five percent.  Mix had a negative one percent impact on sales primarily due to disproportionate growth in developing regions. Organic sales and volume were both up five percent with each reportable segment delivering year-on-year growth.
Net earnings grew 17 percent during the fiscal year to $12.1 billion behind sales growth, operating margin improvement and a lower tax rate.  Operating margin improved 30-basis points as the company was able to more than offset a commodity cost driven decline in gross margin by focusing on overhead productivity improvements. Diluted net earnings per share increased 20 percent to $3.64 including a $0.14 benefit from a number of significant adjustments to previously existing tax reserves.  The elimination of prior year Gillette dilution effects contributed an estimated four percentage points to EPS growth for the fiscal year.
Gross margin was down 70-basis points to 51.3% during the fiscal year.  Higher commodity and energy costs had a negative impact of about 200-basis points.  These were largely offset by scale leverage from volume growth, cost savings projects and pricing.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) were down 100-basis points as a percentage of net sales due to volume scale leverage, a focus on overhead productivity and Gillette synergy savings.  Advertising spending remained constant as a percent of sales for the year.
Operating cash flow was $15.8 billion for the fiscal year, an increase of 18 percent behind earnings growth and an improvement in both accounts receivable and accounts payable.  Inventory was up for the year primarily due to higher material costs from increased commodity prices.  Free cash flow was $12.8 billion for the year and 106% of net earnings, well-ahead of the companys 90% annual target.  Capital expenditures were 3.6% of net sales, better than the companys 4.0% target.
The company has repurchased $10.0 billion of P&G stock since the inception of the previously announced three-year $24 - $30 billion share repurchase program.  Combined with $4.7 billion in dividends, P&G distributed nearly $15 billion to shareholders in the fiscal year and over 120% of net earnings.
Fiscal Year Business Segment Discussion
Beauty GBU
Health & Well-Being GBU
Household Care GBU
Fiscal Year 2009 Guidance
For fiscal year 2009, P&G expects its underlying business to deliver the companys annual target growth rates including organic sales growth of four to six percent and earnings per share growth of 10%.   Fiscal year 2009 GAAP results will include several large impacts from the divestiture of the Folgers business.  The gain on the sale of the business will increase EPS by an estimated $0.50 per share.  This gain will be partially offset by a temporary increase in restructuring spending of approximately $400 million after tax, or about $0.12 per share.  These restructuring programs are designed to generate savings to offset the earnings dilution from the loss of the Folgers business and related stranded overhead costs.   Earnings dilution from Folgers is estimated to be $0.04 per share for the fiscal year.  The one-time gain from the sale is expected to occur in the October - December 2008 quarter.  The Folgers transaction is a non-cash event.  It will not impact operating profit results, but will result in substantial additional share repurchase.  The incremental restructuring costs will be incurred throughout the fiscal year and are expected to reduce fiscal year 2009 operating margins by approximately 50-basis points.  The company estimates the incremental restructuring spending will affect quarterly EPS results by the following approximate amounts:
Quarterly EPS Impact from Incremental Restructuring
 
Fiscal year 2009 organic sales are expected to increase four to six percent.  Organic volume is expected to grow two to three percent and the combination of pricing and product mix is also expected to contribute two to three percent to organic sales growth.  In addition, foreign exchange is forecast to add approximately two to three percent, and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures is estimated to reduce sales growth by one to two percent.  Total sales are expected to increase five to seven percent.
P&G said it expects gross margin for fiscal year 2009 to decline 75 to 125-basis points.  Commodity and energy costs are estimated to be up $3 billion versus fiscal year 2008.  Price increases are being implemented at levels sufficient to offset the dollar value of higher commodity and energy costs and maintain profit, but not at levels necessary to maintain gross or operating margins.  As a result, the combined impact of pricing and commodity cost is expected to reduce gross margins by about 180-basis points, which is included in the guidance range above.   This impact will be partially offset by ongoing cost savings projects and fixed cost leverage on higher volume.
P&G expects SG&A expenses to decrease 75 to 125-basis points with benefits from productivity efforts more than offsetting approximately 50-basis points of incremental restructuring charges related to the Folgers transaction.
The company expects operating margins to be flat versus the previous year.  The tax rate is expected to be between 27% and 28% for the fiscal year.
P&G said it expects fiscal year 2009 GAAP EPS of $4.18 to $4.25.  This range includes the estimated $0.50 gain from the Folgers sale and the $0.12 investment in incremental restructuring, described above.  Excluding these items, P&G expects Fiscal 2009 adjusted EPS of $3.80 to $3.87 per share, which includes $0.04 of Folgers dilution.
July - - September 2008 Quarter Guidance
For the July - September quarter, the company expects organic sales to increase four to six percent.  Organic volume is expected to grow two to three percent and the combination of pricing and product mix is expected to add two to three percent.  In addition, foreign exchange is forecast to add approximately four to five percent, and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures is estimated to reduce sales growth by about one percent.  Total sales are expected to increase seven to ten percent.
P&G said it expects earnings per share of $0.98 to $1.00 for the quarter.  Operating margin is expected to decline by 80 to 140-basis points as significant productivity improvements in SG&A will be more than offset by lower gross margins.  Gross margin is expected to decline by 250 to 300-basis points due to peak commodity cost pressure versus prior year.  Gross margins are expected to improve sequentially during the balance of the fiscal year.
Other income will be up versus the previous fiscal year due to the timing of minor brand divestitures such as ThermaCare which was announced in July.  The company expects the effective tax rate for the quarter to be about 28%.
Forward Looking Statements
 
All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this release, are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on financial data, market assumptions and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete.  We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors.  Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could differ significantly from our expectations.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties noted in this release, there are certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These include: (1) the ability to achieve business plans, including with respect to lower income consumers and growing existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity, especially with respect to the product categories and geographical markets (including developing markets) in which the Company has chosen to focus; (2) the ability to successfully execute, manage and integrate key acquisitions and mergers, including (i) the Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement with Wella, and (ii) the Companys merger with The Gillette Company, and to achieve the cost and growth synergies in accordance with the stated goals of these transactions; (3) the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (4) the ability to maintain key manufacturing and supply sources (including sole supplier and plant manufacturing sources); (5) the ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property, and competition law matters), and to resolve pending matters within current estimates; (6) the ability to successfully implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans in manufacturing and overhead areas, including the Company's outsourcing projects; (7) the ability to successfully manage currency (including currency issues in volatile countries), debt, interest rate and commodity cost exposures; (8) the ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in the Company's significant geographical markets, as well as any political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions due to terrorist activities; (9) the ability to successfully manage competitive factors, including prices, promotional incentives and trade terms for products; (10) the ability to obtain patents and respond to technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to competitors; (11) the ability to successfully manage increases in the prices of raw materials used to make the Company's products; (12) the ability to stay close to consumers in an era of increased media fragmentation; (13) the ability to stay on the leading edge of innovation and maintain a positive reputation on our brands; and (14) the ability to successfully separate the Companys coffee business.  For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected herein, please refer to our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports.
 
About Procter & Gamble
Three billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Folgers, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Actonel, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, and Braun. The P&G community consists of 138,000 employees working in over 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570
:
P&G Investor Relations Contact
Mark Erceg, 513.983.2414
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 1: Non-GAAP Measures
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings release and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.
.  Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons.  We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
Organic Sales Growth
The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales in the 2008 fiscal year:
  Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.  We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment.  Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.
Free Cash Flow.
.  Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.  The companys long-term target is to generate free cash at or above 90 percent of net earnings.  Free cash flow productivity is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management.  The reconciliation of free cash flow and free cash flow productivity is provided below ($ millions):
Free Cash Flow Productivity
 
.  Adjusted net earnings per share exclude the net tax benefits from a number of significant adjustments to tax reserves during fiscal year 2008.  We believe this provides investors with a more consistent and comparable reference point for assessing the underlying earnings growth since we do not view items of this magnitude as part of our sustainable results.
Adjusted Net Earnings Per Share
 
Exhibit 2: FY 2009 Guidance
 
The following provides FY 2009 earnings per share guidance in a tabular format to provide better clarity and transparency.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


