FILE:PG/PG-8K-20090430081043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
              BY:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
/S/ E. J. WUNSCH _________
   
 
E. J. Wunsch
Assistant Secretary
April 30, 2009
 
 
 
99. 
   
News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated April 30, 2009.

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
CINCINNATI, Apr. 30, 2009 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) announced diluted net earnings per share of $0.84, up two percent for the January - March quarter and toward the high end of the Companys guidance for the quarter. Core EPS, which excludes the net impact from the sale of the Folgers business, increased eight percent versus the prior year. Net sales were eight percent below the year-ago quarter at $18.4 billion due to a nine percent unfavorable foreign exchange impact. Organic sales were up one percent reflecting a six percent net benefit from pricing and mix, which offset lower volume.
We delivered good third quarter results in a very challenging macroeconomic environment, said Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer A.G. Lafley. We grew organic sales and EPS, maintained global value share and generated strong cash flow. Our near term efforts are focused on enhancing consumer value, driving productivity and simplification, and making the necessary investments for the future. We continue to invest at leadership levels in innovation, brand building, capacity and capabilities and are confident in our long term growth prospects.
Executive Summary
 
Key Financial Highlights
Net sales for the quarter decreased eight percent to $18.4 billion. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net sales by nine percent as the U.S. dollar appreciated versus key foreign currencies. Volume declined five percent for the quarter driven primarily by market contractions, continued trade inventory reductions, and volume share softness following price increases in certain categories.  These impacts were most acute across the Central & Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa (CEEMEA) region, where price increases were necessary to maintain the structural economics of businesses due to the devaluation of local currencies, which increased the cost of dollar-denominated commodities. In total, price increases added seven percent to net sales and product mix had a negative one percent impact on net sales. Organic sales increased one percent led by the Baby Care and Family Care, the Fabric Care and Home Care, and the Snacks and Pet Care segments.
Operating margin increased 30 basis points, which included 60 basis points of incremental restructuring charges related to the Folgers transaction. The increase in operating margin was primarily due to lower SG&A which declined 13 percent for the quarter. SG&A as a percentage of net sales was down 170 basis points reflecting the benefit of lower marketing expenses while increasing media delivery. Gross margin was down 140 basis points as higher commodity costs and foreign exchange transaction impacts, primarily in developing regions, were partially offset by price increases and manufacturing cost savings.
Diluted net earnings per share were $0.84, an increase of two percent versus the prior year period. Net earnings decreased four percent for the quarter to $2.6 billion. Net earnings from continuing operations declined two percent to $2.6 billion reflecting the foreign exchange-driven decline in sales and earnings. Excluding the negative impacts of foreign exchange, diluted net earnings per share would have increased double digits. Net earnings from discontinued operations were $28 million consisting primarily of a legal settlement gain. Diluted net earnings per share growth exceeded net earnings growth due to the impact of share repurchase activity.
Operating cash flow was $4.3 billion for the quarter. Free cash flow, defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, was $3.5 billion and 136% of net earnings. Capital expenditures were four percent of net sales.
The Company noted that it previously announced a 10 percent increase in quarterly dividends from $0.40 to $0.44 per share. This is the 119 consecutive year P&G has paid a dividend, and the 53 consecutive year the dividend has been increased.
th
rd
Business Segment Discussion for the Quarter
The following provides perspective on the Companys January - March quarter results by business segment.  These results reflect the Companys decision to protect the long term structural profitability of the business, particularly in developing markets.  This necessitated a number of pricing actions to offset significant transaction-related foreign exchange impacts.  As stated earlier, these pricing actions, along with retailer and distributor destocking and slowing global market growth rates, negatively impacted volume, sales and net earnings results of the business segments.
Beauty GBU
Health & Well-Being GBU
 
Household Care GBU
Fiscal Year Guidance
For the 2009 fiscal year, the Company expects organic sales to grow by two to three percent. Net sales are expected to be down two to four percent driven primarily by unfavorable foreign exchange of about five percent. Operating margin, which includes about 50 basis points of incremental Folgers-related restructuring charges, is expected to be consistent with the prior fiscal year.  The Company also stated that it is comfortable with analysts current consensus earnings per share estimate of $4.22 with a range of $4.20 to $4.25.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this release, are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on financial data, market assumptions and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete.  We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors.  Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could differ significantly from our expectations.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties noted in this release, there are certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These include: (1) the ability to achieve business plans, including growing existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity, especially with respect to the product categories and geographical markets (including developing markets) in which the Company has chosen to focus; (2) the ability to successfully execute, manage and integrate key acquisitions and mergers and to achieve the cost and growth synergies in accordance with the stated goals of these transactions; (3) the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (4) the ability to maintain key manufacturing and supply sources (including sole supplier and plant manufacturing sources); (5) the ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal requirements and matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property, and competition law matters), and to resolve pending matters within current estimates; (6) the ability to successfully implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans in manufacturing and overhead areas, including the Company's outsourcing projects; (7) the ability to successfully manage currency (including currency issues in volatile countries), debt, interest rate and commodity cost exposures and significant credit or liquidity issues; (8) the ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in the Company's significant geographical markets, as well as any political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions due to a global or regional credit crisis or terrorist and other hostile activities; (9) the ability to successfully manage competitive factors, including prices, promotional incentives and trade terms for products; (10) the ability to obtain patents and respond to technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to competitors; (11) the ability to successfully manage increases in the prices of raw materials used to make the Company's products; (12) the ability to stay close to consumers in an era of increased media fragmentation; and (13) the ability to stay on the leading edge of innovation and maintain a positive reputation on our brands.  For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected herein, please refer to our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports.
 
About Procter & Gamble
Three billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Actonel, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 138,000 employees working in over 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570
:
P&G Investor Relations Contacts
Mark Erceg, 513.983.2414
John Chevalier, 513.983.9974
The Procter & Gamble Company
 
Exhibit 1: Non-GAAP Measures
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings release and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.
Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons. We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
Organic Sales Growth:
The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales in the January - March quarter is as follows:
 
  This is a measure of the Companys earnings per share excluding the net tax benefits from a number of significant adjustments to tax reserves during fiscal year 2008 and the net impact from the sale of the Folgers business. The net impact from the sale of the Folgers business includes the results of the Folgers business reflected in discontinued operations, the gain on the sale of the Folgers business, and incremental restructuring charges incurred to offset the dilutive impact of the Folgers divestiture.  These incremental restructuring charges represent restructuring costs incurred beyond the level expensed during the base period which were consistent with the Companys ongoing restructuring plans. We do not view these items to be part of our sustainable results. Management believes this measure provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides a more comparable measure of year-on-year earnings per share growth. The table below provides a reconciliation of reported diluted net earnings per share to core earnings per share:
Core EPS:
Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending. We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.
Free Cash Flow:
Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. The Companys long-term target is to generate free cash at or above 90 percent of net earnings. Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management.  The reconciliation of free cash flow and free cash flow productivity is provided below (amounts in millions):
Free Cash Flow Productivity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


