FILE:PG/PG-8K-20091015161044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
As disclosed in its most recent Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2009, The Procter & Gamble Company (the Company) announced changes to its segment reporting structure that were effective July 1, 2009.   Also, as disclosed in a Form 8-K dated August 24, 2009, the Company announced an agreement for the sale of its global pharmaceuticals business to Warner Chilcott.  This Form 8-K provides pro forma historical total company and segment results for the three months ended September 30, 2008 reflecting the change in the reporting structure of the Company and the presentation of the Companys pharmaceuticals business as discontinued operations.  This information in no way revises or restates the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Shareholders Equity or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Company and consolidated subsidiaries for any period.
Fiscal Year 2010 Changes to Global Business Unit (GBU) Structure
Effective July 1, 2009, the Company implemented a number of changes to the organization structure of the Beauty GBU, which resulted in changes to the components of its reportable segment structure.  Female blades and razors were formerly included in the Grooming reportable segment and are now included in the Beauty reportable segment.  Certain male-focused brands and businesses, such as Old Spice and Gillette personal care, moved from the Beauty reportable segment to the Grooming reportable segment.  In addition, the Beauty GBU was renamed the Beauty and Grooming GBU.
Presentation of the Global Pharmaceuticals Business as Discontinued Operations
Separately, on August 24, 2009, the Company announced an agreement for the sale of its global pharmaceuticals business to Warner Chilcott which will be completed at a later date.  The pharmaceuticals business has historically been part of the Health Care reportable segment.  In accordance with applicable accounting guidance for the disposal of long-lived assets, the results of the pharmaceuticals business will be presented as discontinued operations and, as such, will be excluded from continuing operations and from segment results.
The above changes will be reflected in the consolidated financial statements and segment reporting beginning in fiscal year 2010, starting with the Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2009.  In advance of the Form 10-Q filing, this document provides pro forma consolidated earnings information and quarterly sales and profit information for the affected segments for the three months ended September 30, 2008.
CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT REPORTING INFORMATION
 
This 8-K is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
Pursuant     Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by
the 
             the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
BY:  
/s/ E. J. Wunsch
E. J. Wunsch
Assistant Secretary
October 15, 2009
 
 
 
 


