FILE:PG/PG-8K-20090309090457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
On March 9, 2009, The Procter & Gamble Company (the Company) announced that Susan E. Arnold will leave her current position as President  Global Business Units effective March 9, 2009, in anticipation of retiring from the Company on September 1, 2009.
 
The Company is filing this 8-K pursuant to Item 5.02(b), "Departure of Certain Officers."
 
Pursuant to the of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
requirements
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
BY:  
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH    
   
   
   
   
 E. J. Wunsch
 Assistant Secretary
 March 9, 2009
 
99. News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated March 9, 2009.
   

 CINCINNATI, Mar. 9, 2009 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) today announced the following organizational change:
   
 Susan has been an integral part of P&Gs leadership team over the past decade, most recently as president of global business units responsible for more than $80 billion in sales and more than 300 brands worldwide, Mr. Lafley said.
   
 She has also been an architect of the Companys winning Beauty strategy for the past 20 years, Mr. Lafley said. Shes led the transformation of P&G into one of the worlds leading Beauty companies  with vision, creativity, consumer understanding, and game-changing innovation.  Under Ms. Arnolds leadership, P&Gs Beauty business has nearly tripled in size from about $7 billion in 1999 to $20 billion today.  When she became president of the Companys personal beauty care business ten years ago, P&G had only one billion-dollar beauty brand, Pantene.  Today, there are eight billion-dollar brands in the Companys Beauty & Grooming portfolio  Pantene, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Mach3, Gillette, Fusion and Braun  and eight more with sales between $500 million and $1 billion a year.
   
 In addition to her business leadership, Mr. Lafley said, Susan has also been instrumental in the development of top talent throughout P&G and she has served as a role model and coach for women inside and outside P&G.  She has held positions at P&G that no other woman has held before; the first female leader of P&Gs global Beauty business, the first female Vice Chair and the first woman to be Company President.  She has also been a supporter of organizations outside P&G such as Catalyst that help expand opportunities for women in business.  Ms. Arnold has been on 50 Most Powerful Women in Business list for the past seven years and Worlds 100 Most Powerful Women list since 2004.
   
Fortunes
Forbes
 Most recently, Susan has played a pivotal role in P&Gs focus on sustainability.  Under her leadership, P&G adopted company-wide sustainability goals.  Sustainability has been integrated into strategies and plans in every business unit.  She has championed social sustainability and has sponsored P&Gs Childrens Safe Drinking Water program, which has delivered more than a billion liters of safe drinking water to people in need around the world.
   
 Ms. Arnold will continue to serve on the Boards of Directors at Walt Disney Company, McDonalds, Catalyst, and Save the Children.
   
 
About Procter & Gamble
 
 Three billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Actonel, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 138,000 employees working in over 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
   
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465                                                                                              
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570


