FILE:PG/PG-8K-20091208170123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM 5.02(d)    ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
 
On December 8, 2009, The Procter & Gamble Company (the "Company") issued a news release announcing that Angela F. Braly was appointed to the Board of Directors, effective December 8, 2009.  Ms. Braly will serve on the Audit and Governance & Public Responsibility Committees.
 
The Company is filing this 8-K pursuant to Item 5.02(d), "Election of Directors."
 
A copy of the Company's press release relating to this announcement is being furnished as Exhibit 99 to this 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
BY:  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH
E. J. Wunsch
   
   
 
Assistant Secretary
   
   
 
                               December 8, 2009
   
  
99.    News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated December 8, 2009.
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
CINCINNATI, Dec. 8, 2009  The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE: PG) today announced the appointment of Angela F. Braly (48), president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP), to its board of directors.  The appointment is effective immediately.
 
 
Angela is an experienced business leader in the critical health sector, commented A. G. Lafley, P&G chairman of the board.  She will be a valued addition to the P&G board.
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of medical membership in the United States, serving approximately 34 million members in its affiliated health plans.  Prior to being named president and chief executive officer of WellPoint in June 2007, Ms. Braly served as WellPoints executive vice president, general counsel and chief public affairs officer since April 2005.  She served as president and chief executive officer of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Missouri (a WellPoint subsidiary) from August 2003 until April 2005.
 
About Procter & Gamble
Four billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 135,000 employees working in about 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
:
P&G Media Contact
Paul Fox, +1.513.983.3465
fox.pd@pg.com


