FILE:PG/PG-8K-20090812163125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM 5.02(d)    ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
 
On August 12, 2009, The Procter & Gamble Company (the "Company") issued a news release announcing that Mary A. Wilderotter was appointed to the Board of Directors, effective August 11, 2009.  Ms. Wilderotter will serve on the Compensation & Leadership Development and Governance and Public Responsibility Committees.
 
The Company is filing this 8-K pursuant to Item 5.02(d), "Election of Directors."
 
A copy of the Company's press release relating to this announcement is being furnished as Exhibit 99 to this 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
          BY:  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH
  E. J. Wunsch
   
   
 
  Assistant Secretary
   
   
 
  August 12, 2009
   
   
 
99.    News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated August 12, 2009.
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
CINCINNATI, Aug. 12, 2009  The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE: PG) today announced the appointment of Maggie Wilderotter (54), chairman and chief executive officer of Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE: FTR), to its board of directors.  The appointment is effective immediately.
 
 
Maggies outstanding business acumen and broad strategic and leadership experience will make her a valued board member, commented A. G. Lafley, P&G chairman of the board.  Her knowledge of media, communications and information technology will help us accelerate P&Gs growth.  Above all, like P&G, Maggie puts the customer first in everything she does.
 
 
Frontier Communications is the second largest rural communications services company in the United States.  Prior to joining Frontier in 2004 as president and chief executive officer, Mrs. Wilderotter held senior executive positions at Microsoft, Wink Communications, Inc., AT&T Wireless, AT&Ts Aviation Communications Division, and McCaw Cellular Communications.
 
 
Mrs. Wilderotter also serves on the boards of Yahoo! Inc., Xerox Corporation, Tribune Company and a number of non-profit organizations.
 
 
About Procter & Gamble
Three billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Actonel, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 135,000 employees working in over 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
 
 
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465, fox.pd@pg.com


