FILE:PG/PG-8K-20090210170253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As disclosed in its most recent Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, The Procter & Gamble Company (the "Company") completed the divestiture of its coffee business in November 2008 through the merger of its Folgers coffee subsidiary into The J.M. Smucker Company ("Smucker") in an all-stock reverse Morris Trust transaction. In connection with the merger, 38.7 million shares of P&G common stock were tendered by the Company's shareholders and exchanged for all shares of Folgers common stock. Pursuant to the merger, a Smucker subsidiary merged with and into Folgers, and Folgers became a wholly owned subsidiary of Smucker.
Historically, the Company's coffee business was part of its Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care reportable segment, as well as the coffee portion of the P&G Professional (PGP) business which is included in the Fabric Care and Home Care reportable segment. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets", the Company is now required to present the results of Folgers as discontinued operations. As such, the Company has amended its previously filed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying footnotes to exclude the results of Folgers from both continuing operations and segment results for the years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
This Form 8-K provides revised (1) Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) and (2) Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying footnotes.
Exhibit 99.1 provides a revised Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A); Exhibit 99.2 provides revised Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying footnotes; Exhibit 99.3 provides an updated report of the independent registered public accountant; and Exhibit 23 provides the Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Revised Management's Discussion and Analysis
The purpose of this discussion is to provide an understanding of P&G's financial results and condition by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year to year. Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is organized in the following sections:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Throughout MD&A, we refer to measures used by management to evaluate performance including unit volume growth, net outside sales and after-tax profit. We also refer to a number of financial measures that are not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), including organic sales growth, free cash flow and free cash flow productivity. We believe these measures provide investors with important information that is useful in understanding our business results and trends. The explanation of these measures at the end of MD&A provides more details on the use and the derivation of these measures. Management also uses certain market share and market consumption estimates to evaluate performance relative to competition despite some limitations on the availability and comparability of share information. References to market share and market consumption in MD&A are based on a combination of vendor-reported consumption and market size data, as well as internal estimates.
On October 1, 2005, we completed the acquisition of The Gillette Company for $53.4 billion. The Gillette acquisition ultimately resulted in the creation of Grooming, a new reportable segment, primarily consisting of Gillette's Blades and Razors and Braun businesses. Results of Gillette's Personal Care, Oral Care and Duracell businesses were primarily subsumed within the Beauty, the Health Care and the Fabric Care and Home Care reportable segments, respectively. Our discussion of 2007 results within MD&A are in comparison to 2006 results that included the Gillette business only for the nine-month period from October 1, 2005 (the acquisition date) through June 30, 2006. We previously provided details regarding the changes to our reportable segment structure resulting from the integration of the Gillette businesses (as presented in our Form 8-K filed on October 31, 2007).
In November 2008, we completed the divestiture of our coffee business through the merger of our Folgers coffee subsidiary into The J.M. Smucker Company ("Smucker") in an all-stock reverse Morris Trust transaction. In connection with the merger, 38.7 million shares of P&G common stock were tendered by our shareholders and exchanged for all shares of Folgers common stock. Pursuant to the merger, a Smucker subsidiary merged with and into Folgers and Folgers became a wholly owned subsidiary of Smucker.
The coffee business had historically been part of the Company's Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care reportable segment, as well as the coffee portion of the P&G Professional (PGP) business which is included in the Fabric Care and Home Care reportable segment. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets", the results of Folgers are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations and from segment results for all periods presented. The reportable segment was renamed Snacks and Pet Care to the reflect this change.
OVERVIEW
P&G's business is focused on providing branded consumer goods products. Our goal is to provide products of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world's consumers. We believe this will result in leadership sales, profits and value creation, allowing employees, shareholders and the communities in which we operate to prosper.
Our products are sold in more than 180 countries primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores and drug stores. We continue to expand our presence in other channels including department stores, salons and "high frequency stores," the neighborhood stores which serve many consumers in developing markets. We have on-the-ground operations in approximately 80 countries.
Our market environment is highly competitive, with global, regional and local competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other branded products as well as retailers' private-label brands. Additionally, many of the product segments in which we compete are differentiated by price (referred to as premium, mid-tier and value-tier products). Generally speaking, we compete with premium and mid-tier products and are well positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate  often holding a leadership or significant market share position.
Organizational Structure
Our organizational structure is comprised of three Global Business Units (GBUs) and a Global Operations group. The Global Operations group consists of the Market Development Organization (MDO) and Global Business Services (GBS).
Global Business Units
Our three GBUs are Beauty, Health and Well-Being, and Household Care. The primary responsibility of the GBUs is to develop the overall strategy for our brands. They identify common consumer needs, develop new product innovations and upgrades, and build our brands through effective commercial innovations, marketing and sales.
Under U.S. GAAP, the business units comprising the GBUs are aggregated into six reportable segments: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. The following provides additional detail on our GBUs and reportable segments and the key product and brand composition within each.
 
 
Beauty
: We are a global market leader in beauty and compete in markets which comprise approximately $230 billion in global retail sales. Most of the beauty markets in which we compete are highly fragmented with a large number of global and local competitors. We are the global market leader in hair care with over 20% of the global market share. In skin care, we compete primarily with the Olay brand, which is the top facial skin care retail brand in the world. We are also one of the global market leaders in prestige fragrances, primarily behind the Gucci, Hugo Boss and Dolce & Gabbana fragrance brands.
Beauty
: This segment consists of blades and razors, face and shave preparation products (such as shaving cream), electric hair removal devices and small household appliances. We hold leadership market share in the manual blades and razors market on a global basis and in almost all of the geographies in which we compete. Our global manual blades and razors market share is about 70%, primarily behind Mach3, Fusion, Venus and the Gillette franchise. Our electric hair removal devices and small home appliances are sold under the Braun brand in a number of markets around the world, where we compete against both global and regional competitors. Our primary focus in this area is in electric hair removal devices, such as electric razors and epilators, where we hold over 30% and over 50% of the male and female markets, respectively.
Grooming
Health and Well-Being
: We compete in oral care, feminine care, and pharmaceuticals and personal health. In oral care, there are several global competitors in the market, and we have the number two market share position at approximately 20% of the global market. We are the global market leader in the feminine care category with about one-third of the global market share. In pharmaceuticals and personal health, we have approximately one-third of the global bisphosphonates market for the treatment of osteoporosis under the Actonel brand. We are the market leader in nonprescription heartburn medications and in respiratory treatments behind Prilosec OTC and Vicks, respectively.
Health Care
: In snacks, we compete against both global and local competitors and have a global market share of approximately 10% in the potato chips market behind our Pringles brand. In pet care, we compete in several markets around the globe in the premium pet care segment, behind the Iams and Eukanuba brands. The vast majority of our pet care business is in North America, where we have about a 10% share of the market.
Snacks and Pet Care
Household Care
: This segment is comprised of a variety of fabric care products, including laundry cleaning products and fabric conditioners; home care products, including dish care, surface cleaners and air fresheners; and batteries. In fabric care, we generally have the number one or number two share position in the markets in which we compete and are the global market leader, with approximately one-third of the global market share. Our global home care market share is about 20% across the categories in which we compete. In batteries, we compete primarily behind the Duracell brand and have over 40% of the global alkaline battery market share.
Fabric Care and Home Care
: In baby care, we compete primarily in diapers, training pants and baby wipes, with over one-third of the global market share. We are the number one or number two baby care competitor in most of the key markets in which we compete, primarily behind Pampers, the Company's largest brand, with annual net sales of approximately $8 billion. Our family care business is predominantly a North American business comprised primarily of the Bounty paper towel and Charmin toilet tissue brands, with U.S. market shares of over 40% and over 25%, respectively.
Baby Care and Family Care
Global Operations
Market Development Organization
Our MDO is responsible for developing go-to-market plans at the local level. The MDO includes dedicated retail customer, trade channel and country-specific teams. It is organized along seven geographic regions: North America, Western Europe, Northeast Asia, Central & Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa, Latin America, ASEAN/Australia/India and Greater China. Throughout MD&A, we reference business results in developing markets, which we define as the aggregate of Central & Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa, Latin America, ASEAN/Australia/India and Greater China, and developed markets, which are comprised of North America, Western Europe and Northeast Asia.
Global Business Services
GBS provides technology, processes and standard data tools to enable the GBUs and the MDO to better understand the business and better serve consumers and customers. The GBS organization is responsible for providing world-class solutions at a low cost and with minimal capital investment.
Strategic Focus
P&G is focused on strategies that we believe are right for the long-term health of the Company and will increase returns for our shareholders. The Company's annual financial targets are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to achieve these targets, we focus on our core strengths of consumer understanding, branding, innovation, go-to-market capability and global scale and scope against the following growth areas:
 
 
 
To sustain consistent and reliable sales and earnings growth in line with our financial targets, we have identified four key enablers:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY OF 2008 RESULTS
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we delivered our seventh consecutive year of sales growth and free cash flow productivity at or above our stated targets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
We discuss expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and objectives, in annual and quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All such statements, except for historical and present factual information, are "forward-looking statements," and are based on financial data and our business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out-of-date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and investors must recognize that events could be significantly different from our expectations.
Ability to Achieve Business Plans. We are a consumer products company and rely on continued demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers and retail trade customers. Our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation with respect to both products and operations and on the continued positive reputations of our brands. This means we must be able to obtain patents and respond to technological advances and patents granted to competition. Our success is also dependent on effective sales, advertising and marketing programs in an increasingly fragmented media environment. Our ability to innovate and execute in these areas will determine the extent to which we are able to grow existing sales and volume profitably, especially with respect to the product categories and geographic markets (including developing markets) in which we have chosen to focus. There are high levels of competitive activity in the environments in which we operate. To address these challenges, we must respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives, trade terms and product initiatives. We must manage each of these factors, as well as maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, in order to effectively compete and achieve our business plans. Since our goals include a growth component tied to acquisitions, we must manage and integrate key acquisitions, such as the Gillette and Wella acquisitions, including achieving the cost and growth synergies in accordance with stated goals.
Cost Pressures. Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, cost of labor, foreign exchange and interest rates. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects, sourcing decisions and certain hedging transactions. We also must manage our debt and currency exposure, especially in volatile countries. We need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements. We must implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans, including our outsourcing projects and those related to general overhead and workforce rationalization.
Global Economic Conditions. Economic changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption, inflation, deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our significant geographic markets, as well as any political or economic disruption due to terrorist and other hostile activities.
Regulatory Environment. Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business. This includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements. Our ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property and competition law matters) and to resolve pending legal matters within current estimates may impact our results.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Net Sales
Net sales increased 9% in 2008 to $81.7 billion behind 4% unit volume growth, a favorable 5% foreign exchange impact and a positive 1% pricing impact. Favorable foreign exchange resulted primarily from the strengthening of European and other currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Price increases were taken across a number of our businesses primarily to offset higher commodity costs. Mix had a negative 1% impact on net sales primarily due to disproportionate growth in developing regions, where selling prices are below the Company average. Each reportable segment posted year-on-year volume growth, with mid-single-digit growth in Fabric Care and Home Care, Baby Care and Family Care, Grooming and Health Care and low-single-digit growth in Beauty and Snacks and Pet Care. Each geographic region posted year-on-year volume growth except Western Europe, which was down low-single digits due to the impact of divestitures. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, every geographic region delivered year-on-year volume growth. Volume grew primarily behind initiative activity on key brands and continued double-digit growth in developing regions. Organic sales increased 5% behind organic volume growth of 5%, which excludes the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. Each reportable segment posted year-on-year organic sales and organic volume growth.
Net sales increased 12% in 2007 to $74.8 billion. Sales were up behind 9% unit volume growth, including the impact of an extra three months of Gillette results in 2007. Organic volume increased 5%. Developing regions continued to lead the growth with double-digit increases for the year. All reportable segments increased organic volume for the year except the Snacks and Pet Care segment. Higher pricing, primarily in Grooming and Health Care, contributed 1% to sales growth. Product mix had a negative 1% impact on sales as a more premium product mix driven by the additional three months of Gillette results in 2007 was more than offset by the negative mix impact of disproportionate growth in developing markets, where the average unit sales price is lower than the Company average. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 3% to net sales growth. Organic sales increased 5% versus 2006 with all reportable segments posting year-on-year growth except the Snacks and Pet Care segment.
Operating Costs
Gross margin was down 70 basis points in 2008 to 51.6% of net sales. Commodity and energy cost increases had a negative impact on gross margin of about 200 basis points. These were largely offset by the benefits of scale leverage from volume growth and cost savings projects resulting from manufacturing efficiency improvements and product reformulations.
Gross margin was 52.3% in 2007, an increase of 50 basis points versus the prior year. Higher commodity and energy costs had a negative impact of approximately 60 basis points on gross margin. These were more than offset by scale leverage from organic volume growth, higher pricing and cost savings projects. The additional three months of the Gillette business in 2007, which has a higher gross margin than the base P&G business, drove additional gross margin improvement of approximately 30 basis points.
 
Total selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) increased 6% to $25.6 billion in 2008. The increase was driven by higher overhead and marketing spending to support business growth. SG&A as a percentage of net sales was down 110 basis points. Overhead spending was down as a percentage of net sales for the total Company and for each reportable segment primarily due to volume scale leverage, a focus on overhead productivity and incremental synergy savings from the Gillette acquisition. Marketing spending as a percentage of net sales was in line with previous year levels.
SG&A in 2007 increased 12%, or $2.5 billion, to $24.2 billion. SG&A increased primarily due to the additional three months of Gillette in 2007 and to support business growth, partially offset by overhead and media purchasing synergies from the Gillette integration. The additional three months of Gillette in 2007 accounted for approximately $1.1 billion of the increase, including approximately $160 million of incremental acquisition-related expenses. The incremental acquisition-related expenses were comprised of three additional months of intangible asset amortization resulting from revaluing intangible assets in the opening balance sheet of the acquired Gillette business, costs to restructure the business post-acquisition and other integration-related expenses. SG&A as a percentage of net sales was 32.3% in 2007, an improvement of 10 basis points versus 2006. Overhead expenses as a percentage of net sales were down due to volume scale leverage, overhead cost control and synergies from the Gillette integration. Marketing spending as a percentage of net sales in 2007 was roughly in line with prior year levels despite media purchasing synergies generated by the Gillette acquisition and a continued focus on marketing return-on-investment (ROI) programs.
Non-Operating Items
Non-operating items primarily include interest expense, divestiture gains and interest and investment income. Interest expense increased 13% to $1.5 billion in 2008 driven by a higher interest rate on our long-term borrowings and a higher debt level to fund the Company's previously announced share repurchase program. Under this share repurchase program, which began in July 2007, the Company plans to repurchase between $24 - $30 billion of P&G stock over a three-year period. In 2007, interest expense increased 17% to $1.3 billion due to the financing costs associated with the debt issued to fund the share repurchase program executed in conjunction with the acquisition of Gillette in October 2005. The repurchase program associated with Gillette was completed in July 2006.
Other non-operating income in 2008 decreased $103 million versus the prior year period primarily due to lower current period interest income. Interest income declined in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates and cash balances. Divestiture gains on the sale of minor brands in 2008 were in line with previous year levels. Other non-operating income increased $282 million in 2007 to $565 million primarily due to higher divestiture gains in 2007.
The effective tax rate from continuing operations declined in 2008 from 29.5% to 24.5%. Approximately 3 percentage points of this decline was due to discrete adjustments to reserves for previously existing uncertain tax positions in the U.S. and other countries. The balance of the decline was primarily driven by a more favorable geographic mix of earnings and a reduction in the German statutory tax rate, which reduced our deferred tax liabilities related to acquired intangible assets. The effective tax rate from continuing operations in 2007 was down 30 basis points versus 2006 primarily due to a more favorable country mix impact in 2007, partially offset by higher levels of reserve releases in 2006.
Net Earnings
Net earnings from continuing operations increased 17% to $11.8 billion in 2008 behind sales growth, a 40-basis point improvement in operating margin and a lower tax rate. Operating margin increased due to lower SG&A as a percentage of net sales which more than offset lower gross margin. Net earnings from continuing operations in 2007 increased 19% to $10.1 billion primarily behind sales growth, including the additional three months of Gillette results and operating margin expansion. Operating margin expanded 60 basis points primarily behind gross margin improvement.
Net earnings from discontinued operations in 2008 and 2007 were $277 million. Net earnings from discontinued operations increased $71 million in 2007 due to the negative impacts of Huricane Katrina in 2006 which reduced net sales and included incremental expenses in the coffee business.
Diluted net earnings per share in 2008 were up 20% versus the prior year to $3.64 per share, comprised of $3.56 per share from continuing operations and $0.08 per share from discontinued operations. Diluted net earnings per share growth exceeded net earnings growth due to share repurchase activity. Treasury shares in the amount of $10 billion were repurchased in 2008 under a previously announced share buyback program that started in July 2007. Gillette was modestly accretive to earnings per share results in 2008, compared to dilution of approximately $0.10 - $0.12 per share in 2007. The elimination of Gillette dilution on earnings per share drove approximately 4 percentage points of earnings per share growth in 2008. Diluted net earnings per share in 2007 increased 15% to $3.04 primarily behind earnings growth, partially offset by the impact of a net increase in the weighted average shares outstanding in 2007 versus 2006 resulting from the incremental shares issued in conjunction with the Gillette acquisition on October 1, 2005.
SEGMENT RESULTS
Results for the segments reflect information on the same basis we use for internal management reporting and performance evaluation. Within the Beauty GBU, we provide data for the Beauty and the Grooming reportable segments. In the Health and Well-Being GBU, we provide data for the Health Care and the Snacks and Pet Care reportable segments. In the Household Care GBU, we provide data for the Fabric Care and Home Care and the Baby Care and Family Care reportable segments. All references to net earnings throughout the discussion of segment results refer to net earnings from continuing operations.
The results of these reportable business segments do not include certain non-business unit specific costs such as interest expense, investing activities and certain restructuring costs. These costs are reported in our Corporate segment and are included as part of our Corporate segment discussion. Additionally, as described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have investments in certain companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control the financial and operating decisions and, therefore, do not consolidate them ("unconsolidated entities"). Since certain of these investments are managed as integral parts of the Company's business units, they are accounted for as if they were consolidated subsidiaries for management and segment reporting purposes. This means pretax earnings in the business units include 100% of each pretax income statement component. In
determining after-tax earnings in the business units, we eliminate the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to minority interest, and apply the statutory tax rates. Eliminations to adjust each line item to U.S. GAAP are included in our Corporate segment.
 
Sales percentage changes are approximations based on quantitative formulas that are consistently applied.
Beauty
Beauty
 
 
Beauty net sales increased 9% in 2008 to $19.5 billion behind 2% volume growth and 6% of favorable foreign exchange. Favorable product mix had a positive 1% impact on net sales primarily due to stronger growth in skin care and prestige fragrances, which have higher than segment average unit selling prices. This more than offset the impact of disproportionate growth in developing regions, which have lower selling prices than the segment average. Skin care volume was up mid-single digits driven by growth on Olay behind the Definity and Regenerist initiatives. Our global skin care market share was up slightly, driven primarily by about a 1 point increase in our US market share. Prestige fragrances volume was up low-single digits and organic volume was up high-single digits behind new product launches on Dolce & Gabbana and Hugo Boss. Retail hair care volume was up mid-single digits, led by high-single-digit growth in developing markets. Retail hair care volume in developed regions was flat as a double-digit volume increase on Head & Shoulders was offset by a double-digit volume decline on Pantene in North America. Hair color volume increased low-single digits as growth on Nice N Easy behind the Perfect 10 launch more than offset declines on other color brands. Professional hair care volume declined mid-single digits as growth from color was more than offset by declines in care and styling. Overall, global hair care market share was in line with the prior year level. Volume in deodorants was down low-single digits primarily due to competitive activity and market softness in Western Europe.
Net earnings in Beauty increased 5% to $2.7 billion in 2008 as the impact of higher sales was partially offset by a lower net earnings margin. Net earnings margin was down 60-basis points as lower gross margin and the impact of base period divestiture gains on minor brands more than offset the benefit of a lower tax rate due to geographic mix. Gross margin was down due to higher commodity costs, which more than offset the benefit of increased volume scale leverage and manufacturing cost savings projects. SG&A increased slightly as higher marketing spending as a percentage of net sales was partially offset by lower overhead spending as a percentage of net sales.
In 2007, Beauty net sales increased 7% to $17.9 billion behind 4% unit volume growth. Volume growth was driven by initiative activity across categories and continued expansion in developing regions, where volume increased high-single digits. Prestige fragrances volume was up double-digits behind The One, Boss Selection and Boss Femme fragrance initiatives and the addition of Dolce & Gabbana. Skin care volume was up high-single digits behind the Olay Definity and Regenerist product initiatives. Hair care volume grew mid-single digits as a result of product initiatives on Pantene, Head & Shoulders and Herbal Essences and continued expansion in developing regions. Beauty sales benefited from a 1% positive mix impact primarily due to disproportionate growth in prestige fragrances, which has a higher than segment average unit selling price. This was offset by higher levels of promotional activity, which resulted in a negative 1% pricing impact. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 3% to net sales. Net earnings increased 8% in 2007 to $2.6 billion primarily behind net sales growth. Earnings margin increased 15 basis points primarily due to lower SG&A as a percentage of net sales and divestiture gains on several minor Beauty brands, partially offset by the negative mix impact from lower SK-II shipments. SG&A improved as higher marketing spending as a percentage of net sales to support initiative activity was more than offset by lower overhead expenses as a percentage of net sales resulting from the benefit of volume scale leverage and Gillette-related synergy savings. SK-II shipments were down in 2007 due to the sales disruption in Asia resulting from the voluntary temporary suspension of SK-II shipments in China early in the 2007 fiscal year.
Grooming
 
 
Grooming net sales increased 11% to $8.3 billion in 2008. Net sales were up behind 5% volume growth, a 7% favorable foreign exchange impact and a 2% positive pricing impact driven by price increases on premium shaving systems. Product mix had a negative 3% impact on net sales as positive product mix from growth on the premium-priced Fusion brand was more than offset by the impact of disproportionate growth in developing regions, where selling prices are below the segment average. Blades and razors volume increased high-single digits behind double-digit growth in developing regions driven primarily by Fusion expansion and Prestobarba3 launch. In developed regions, blades and razors volume was down low-single digits as double-digit growth on Fusion was more than offset by lower shipments of legacy shaving systems. Fusion delivered more than $1 billion in net sales for 2008, making it the Company's 24th billion-dollar brand. Braun volume was down mid-single digits primarily due to supply constraints at a contract manufacturer, the announced exits of certain appliance businesses and the divestiture of the thermometer and blood pressure devices business.
Net earnings in Grooming were up 21% in 2008 to $1.7 billion behind net sales growth and a 170-basis point earnings margin expansion. Earnings margin improved behind lower SG&A as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by a reduction in gross margin. Gross margin declined due to higher costs incurred at a contract manufacturer on the Braun home appliance business, which more than offset benefits from higher pricing and volume scale leverage. SG&A as a percentage of net sales was down primarily due to lower overhead spending driven largely by synergies from the integration of Gillette into P&G's infrastructure.
In 2007, net sales in Grooming increased 45% to $7.4 billion on 36% unit volume growth, including the impact of the extra three months of Gillette results in fiscal 2007. Organic sales increased 6% during the year, with organic volume up 2%. Blades and razors organic volume was up mid-single digits primarily behind the continued expansion of the Fusion razor system and growth of Mach3 in countries where Fusion has not yet launched. Fusion was launched in North America in fiscal 2006 and expanded into other markets including Western Europe in fiscal 2007. In Braun, organic volume was down low-single digits as the impact of the launches of 360 Complete and Contour razors in North America and Pulsonic razors in Germany and Japan were more than offset by lower volume on household appliances in Europe. Favorable product mix, primarily behind the launch of the premium Fusion razors, contributed 3% to net sales. Price increases taken across most shaving systems added an additional 2% to net sales and favorable foreign exchange added an additional 4%. Net earnings increased 63% in 2007 to $1.4 billion. The extra three months of Gillette results in fiscal 2007 contributed 46% of the total earnings growth. The remaining growth was due to organic sales growth and integration-driven synergy savings, partially offset by higher marketing investment behind Fusion and incremental acquisition-related charges. We incurred approximately $40 million of incremental acquisition-related charges in fiscal 2007. The incremental acquisition-related charges are primarily comprised of amortization charges from revaluing intangible assets in the opening balance sheet, partially offset by base period product costs related to revaluing Gillette's opening inventory balance. Amortization charges were higher in fiscal 2007 due to the extra three months of Gillette results in the period.
Health and Well-Being
Health Care
 
 
Health Care net sales increased 9% in 2008 to $14.6 billion behind a 4% increase in unit volume. Foreign exchange had a positive 5% impact on net sales and price increases added 1% to net sales. Disproportionate growth in developing regions, which have selling prices below the segment average, resulted in a negative 1% mix impact. Feminine care volume increased mid-single digits and organic volume was up high-single digits behind double-digit growth on Naturella and high-single digit growth on Always, which more than offset a low-single digit decline on Tampax. Our global feminine care market share increased slightly in 2008 to about 38%. Oral care volume was up mid-single digits behind initiative-driven growth on Oral-B toothbrushes and Crest. U.S. market share on Crest dentifrice was in line with the previous year. Volume in pharmaceuticals and personal health was up low-single digits as the impact of adding the Swiss Precision Diagnostics business was largely offset by lower shipments of
Actonel, Prilosec OTC and PuR. The PuR decline was from adjustments to a Whirlpool water filters licensing agreement. Prilosec OTC volume began to decline in the third fiscal quarter of 2008 due to the recent loss of marketplace exclusivity and the entry of competing products into the market. This is expected to continue and to have an adverse effect on the results of the Health Care segment in future periods.
Net earnings in Health Care were up 12% in 2008 to $2.5 billion due to higher net sales and a 50-basis point improvement in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin increased as reduced SG&A as a percentage of net sales more than offset lower gross margin. Gross margin was down due to higher commodity costs and a less profitable mix driven primarily by disproportionate growth in developing regions and lower shipments of Prilosec OTC, which more than offset the benefit of increased volume scale leverage and manufacturing cost savings. SG&A improved primarily behind lower overhead spending as a percentage of net sales due to a focus on productivity improvement and Gillette synergy benefits.
Health Care net sales increased 13% in 2007 to $13.4 billion behind an 8% increase in unit volume. Sales and volume were up as a result of three additional months of Gillette oral care results in fiscal 2007 and growth on the base P&G business. Health Care organic sales increased 7% behind 5% organic volume growth. Oral care organic volume grew mid-single digits behind double-digit growth in developing regions, high-single-digit growth on Oral-B and the launch of Crest Pro-Health toothpaste in North America. Pharmaceuticals and personal health volume increased low-single digits behind growth on Prilosec OTC, partially offset by lower volume on Actonel due to strong competitive activity in the osteoporosis market. Our U.S. market share on Prilosec OTC increased about 1-point during the year. Feminine care volume was up high-single digits, led by double-digit growth in developing regions. Successful initiative activity in North America on the Always Clean and Fresh initiatives and product upgrades on Tampax Pearl more than offset the impact of strong competitive activity in Western Europe and Northeast Asia, resulting in a 1-point increase in our global feminine care market share. Pricing, primarily in pharmaceuticals and personal health, contributed 2% to segment net sales growth. A more premium product mix added an additional 1% to net sales as disproportionate growth on Crest Pro-Health in North America more than offset the negative impact from higher relative growth in developing regions. Foreign exchange had a positive 2% impact on net sales. Net earnings grew 22% to $2.2 billion in 2007 behind organic sales growth, the additional three months of Gillette oral care results and earnings margin expansion. Earnings margin increased 120 basis points behind increased gross margin on our base business and lower SG&A as a percentage of net sales. SG&A improved primarily due to lower overhead expenses as a percentage of net sales resulting from volume scale leverage, Gillette synergy savings and lower research and development costs in our pharmaceuticals business driven by further leveraging external R&D networks and higher clinical milestone payments in the base period.
Snacks and Pet Care
 
Snacks and Pet Care net sales increased 7% to $3.2 billion in 2008. Net sales grew behind a 3% volume increase, a positive 1% price impact resulting from price increases in pet care and a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact. Product mix had a negative 1% impact on net sales from an increase in snacks volume, which has lower selling prices than the segment average. Snacks volume was up high-single
digits behind the launch of Rice Infusion in Western Europe and Extreme Flavors and Pringles Stix in North America. In pet care, volume was down low-single digits due to negative impacts from the voluntary wet pet food recall in the U.S. in March 2007 that contributed to about a 1% decline in our U.S. market share.
Net earnings in Snacks and Pet Care were up 7% to $261 million in 2008 due to sales growth. Operating margin was consistent with the prior year as lower gross margin was offset by improved SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin was down as higher commodity costs across the segment more than offset price increases, base period pet food recall impacts and manufacturing cost savings. SG&A decreased as a percentage of net sales due to reductions in both overhead and marketing spending as a percentage of net sales.
Snacks and Pet Care net sales in 2007 remained consistent with the prior year at $3.0 billion on a 2 % decline in unit volume. Snacks volume was in line with the prior year. Pet care volume was down mid-single digits versus the year-ago period due to strong competitive activity and the impacts of a voluntary recall. In March 2007, we voluntarily recalled certain Iams and Eukanuba wet pet foods to help ensure maximum pet safety following the discovery of contaminated materials at a pet food supplier. Foreign exchange had a positive 2% impact on net sales. Net earnings in 2007 increased 5% to $244 million. Earnings increased primarily due to a lower tax rate. Operating margin was consistent with the prior year as lower gross margin from higher commodity cost was offset by reduced SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales.
Household Care
Fabric Care and Home Care
 
 
Fabric Care and Home Care net sales in 2008 increased 11% to $23.7 billion. Volume was up 6%, price increases added 1% and favorable foreign exchange added 5% to net sales growth. This was partially offset by a negative 1% mix impact primarily from disproportionate growth in developing regions and a shift toward large sizes in fabric care, both of which have selling prices below the segment average. Fabric care volume increased mid-single digits behind high-single-digit growth in developing regions and mid-single-digit growth in developed regions. Growth was driven by the liquid laundry detergent compaction launch in North America and initiative activity on Tide, Gain, Ariel and Downy. Home care volume was up mid-single digits due to double-digit growth in developing regions and high-teens growth on Febreze from the launch of Febreze Candles. Batteries volume was up mid-single digits behind double-digit growth in developing regions and mid-single-digit growth in developed regions.
Net earnings in Fabric Care and Home Care increased 9% to $3.4 billion in 2008 primarily behind higher net sales. Net earnings margin was down 20 basis points primarily due to lower gross margin, partially offset by a reduction in SG&A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin was down due to
higher commodity costs, which more than offset benefits from pricing, increased volume scale leverage and manufacturing cost savings projects. SG&A improved as a percentage of net sales due to lower overhead spending as a percentage of net sales resulting from a focus on overhead productivity improvements.
Fabric Care and Home Care net sales increased 14% in 2007 to $21.4 billion. Sales growth was driven by a 10% increase in volume, a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact and a 1% positive pricing impact. The extra three months of batteries results in fiscal 2007 contributed 3% to the segment's sales growth and 2% to segment volume growth. Volume was up high-single digits in both fabric care and home care led by double-digit growth in developing regions. In developed regions, fabric care volume grew mid-single digits and home care volume grew high-single digits behind product initiatives such as Tide Simple Pleasures, Gain Joyful Expressions, Febreze Noticeables, upgrades on Swiffer and the launch of Fairy auto-dishwashing in Western Europe. Our market share in both fabric care and home care increased by about 1 point globally during the year. In batteries, organic volume increased mid-single digits behind high-single-digit developing region growth from expanded distribution in high-frequency stores in Latin America. Net earnings in 2007 were up 20% to $3.1 billion behind organic sales growth, the additional three months of batteries results and an 80-basis point improvement in net earnings margin. Earnings margin improved behind higher gross margin and lower SG&A as a percentage of net sales. The gross margin improvement was driven by scale benefits of volume growth and cost savings projects that more than offset higher commodity costs. SG&A improved primarily behind lower overhead expenses as a percentage of net sales resulting from volume scale leverage and Gillette synergy savings.
Baby Care and Family Care
 
Baby Care and Family Care net sales increased 9% in 2008 to $13.9 billion. Volume was up 4%, including the impact of the Western European family care divestiture. Price increases contributed 1% to net sales and foreign exchange had a positive 4% impact on net sales. Organic volume and organic sales, which exclude the impacts of the Western European family care divestiture and foreign exchange, both grew 8%. Organic volume growth was balanced across the segment with high-single-digit growth in both baby care and family care. Baby care volume in developed regions was up mid-single digits behind growth on the Pampers Baby Stages of Development and on the Baby Dry Caterpillar Flex initiative. In developing regions, baby care volume was up double-digits behind continued growth on Pampers. Baby care market share in the U.S. was up nearly 1 point to about 29%. Family care volume was down low-single digits due to the divestiture of the Western European family care business but was up high-single digits on an organic basis behind the Bounty and Charmin product restages. U.S. market share on both Bounty and Charmin was up over 1 point to about 45% and 28%, respectively.
Net earnings in Baby Care and Family Care were up 20% to $1.7 billion in 2008 behind higher net sales and earnings margin expansion. Net earnings margin improved 110 basis points primarily behind higher gross margin and lower SG&A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin was up due to a more profitable product mix following the Western Europe family care divestiture, the benefit of increased
volume scale leverage, pricing and manufacturing cost savings projects, which more than offset higher commodity and energy costs. SG&A improved as a percentage of net sales due to lower overhead spending as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by higher marketing expenses as a percentage of net sales.
Baby Care and Family Care net sales increased 6% in 2007 to $12.7 billion behind 5% unit volume growth. Baby care volume grew mid-single digits with developing regions up double digits. In developed regions, baby care volume was up low-single digits as growth on Pampers Baby Stages of Development and Baby Dry Caterpillar Flex more than offset softness on Pampers in Western Europe and Luvs in North America from lower competitor pricing of both branded and private label products. Family care volume increased mid-single digits behind product performance upgrades on Bounty and continued growth on Bounty and Charmin Basic products. Disproportionate growth on baby care in developing regions and on the Basic tier products, which have a lower average selling price, led to a negative 1% mix impact. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 2% to sales growth. Net earnings in Baby Care and Family Care increased 11% to $1.4 billion in 2007 behind net sales growth and a 50-basis point improvement in net earnings margin. Earnings margin increased as lower SG&A as a percentage of net sales more than offset a reduction in gross margin. Gross margin was down slightly as manufacturing cost savings and volume scale leverage were more than offset by the impact of higher pulp costs and a less profitable product mix. SG&A improved as a percentage of net sales due to lower overhead expenses from volume scale leverage and a reduction in marketing expenses as a percentage of net sales.
Corporate
Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities not allocated to specific business units. These include: the incidental businesses managed at the corporate level; financing and investing activities; other general corporate items; the historical results of certain divested brands and categories, including certain Gillette brands that were divested as required by regulatory authorities in relation to the Gillette acquisition; and certain restructuring-type activities to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing and workforce rationalization. Corporate also includes reconciling items to adjust the accounting policies used in the segments to U.S. GAAP. The most significant reconciling items include income taxes (to adjust from statutory rates that are reflected in the segments to the overall Company effective tax rate), adjustments for unconsolidated entities (to eliminate sales, cost of products sold and SG&A for entities that are consolidated in the segments but accounted for using the equity method for U.S. GAAP) and minority interest adjustments for subsidiaries where we do not have 100% ownership. Since both unconsolidated entities and less than 100% owned subsidiaries are managed as integral parts of the Company, they are accounted for similar to a wholly owned subsidiary for management and segment purposes. This means our segment results recognize 100% of each income statement component through before-tax earnings in the segments, with eliminations for unconsolidated entities in Corporate. In determining segment after-tax net earnings, we apply the statutory tax rates (with adjustments to arrive at the Company's effective tax rate in Corporate) and eliminate the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to minority interest.
Corporate net sales primarily reflect the adjustment to eliminate the sales of unconsolidated entities included in business unit results. Net sales decreased $474 million primarily driven by higher adjustments to eliminate the impact of joint venture net sales for unconsolidated entities that are reflected as sales in the business segments. These adjustments increased due to sales growth of existing unconsolidated entities and the addition of the Swiss Precision Diagnostics business. In 2008, net earnings in Corporate increased $450 million. The increase was driven primarily by a lower tax rate resulting from the net benefits of adjustments to reserves for uncertain tax positions.
Corporate segment net earnings declined $230 million in 2007 primarily due to higher interest expenses and higher Gillette integration costs. Interest expense was up $185 million primarily due to the financing costs associated with the debt issued to fund the share repurchase program announced in conjunction with the Gillette acquisition.
FINANCIAL CONDITION
We believe our financial condition continues to be of high quality, as evidenced by our ability to generate substantial cash from operations and ready access to capital markets at competitive rates.
Operating cash flow provides the primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Excess operating cash is used first to fund shareholder dividends. Other discretionary uses include share repurchases and "tack-on" acquisitions to complement our portfolio of brands and geographies. As necessary, we may supplement operating cash flow with debt to fund these activities. The overall cash position of the Company reflects our strong business results and a global cash management strategy that takes into account liquidity management, economic factors and tax considerations.
Operating Activities
Operating cash flow was $15.0 billion in 2008, an increase of 12% over the prior year. Both operating cash flow and the increase in operating cash flow over the prior year resulted primarily from higher net earnings and non-cash charges (depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation and deferred income taxes). Working capital balances increased primarily to support business growth resulting in a net use of cash. Inventory days on hand increased by 8 days primarily due to foreign exchange and higher material costs, partially offset by accounts receivable and accounts payable impacts. Accounts payable days were up 4 days due to higher material values and increased capital expenditures in the fourth quarter. Accounts receivable days were down 2 days primarily due to the harmonization of Gillette trade terms, which historically carried longer payment terms than P&G. Cash flow from discontinued operations contributed $263 million to operating cash flow.
Operating cash flow in 2007 increased 18% to $13.4 billion. Operating cash flow increased as a result of higher net earnings, including the benefit of an additional three months of Gillette in 2007. Net earnings, adjusted for non-cash items (primarily depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation and deferred income taxes) was partially offset by cash used to fund working capital. Working capital increased in 2007 primarily to support business growth. Cash flow from discontinued operations contributed $303 million to operating cash flow.
Free Cash Flow. We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor impacting the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. It is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures and is one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and determine their at-risk compensation. In 2008, free cash flow was $12.0 billion, compared to $10.5 billion in 2007. Free cash flow increased primarily as a result of higher operating cash flow. Capital expenditures increased from $2.9 billion in 2007 to $3.0 billion in 2008 representing 3.7% of net sales. Free cash flow productivity, defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings, was 99% in 2008, ahead of the Company's 90% target.
In 2007, free cash flow was $10.5 billion, compared to $8.7 billion in 2006 as a result of higher operating cash flow. Free cash flow productivity was 101% in 2007.
Investing Activities
Net investing activities used $2.5 billion of cash in both 2008 and 2007.
Acquisitions. Acquisitions used $381 million of cash in 2008 primarily for the acquisition of Frederic Fekkai, a premium hair care brand, in Beauty. In 2007, acquisitions used $492 million of cash for several minor transactions, primarily in Beauty and Health Care, including the Swiss Precision Diagnostics business.
Capital Spending. We view capital spending efficiency as a critical component of our overall cash management strategy. Capital expenditures in 2008 were $3.0 billion, compared to $2.9 billion in 2007. Capital spending as a percentage of net sales was 3.7% in 2008, compared to 3.9% in 2007. Capital spending for the Company's discontinued coffee business was $30 million and $51 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Proceeds from Asset Sales. Proceeds from asset sales were $928 million in 2008 primarily behind the sale of our Western Europe family care business as well as several minor Beauty and Health Care divestitures. In 2007, proceeds from asset sales were $281 million primarily due to the divestitures of Pert in North America, Sure and several non-strategic minor Beauty brands.
Financing Activities
Dividend Payments. Our first discretionary use of cash is dividend payments. Dividends per common share increased 13% to $1.45 per share in 2008. This increase represents the 52nd consecutive fiscal year the Company has increased its common share dividend. Total dividend payments to both common and preferred shareholders were $4.7 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.7 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Long-Term and Short-Term Debt. We maintain debt levels we consider appropriate after evaluating a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for ongoing operations, investment and financing plans (including acquisitions and share repurchase activities) and the overall cost of capital. Total debt was $36.7 billion in 2008, $35.4 billion in 2007 and $38.1 billion in 2006. Debt increased in 2008 primarily to fund the Company's treasury share repurchase program discussed below. The decrease in debt in 2007 was primarily due to the utilization of operating cash flow to pay down existing balances.
Liquidity. Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated from operations. We believe internally generated cash flows adequately support business operations, capital expenditures and shareholder dividends, as well as a level of other discretionary cash uses (e.g., for minor acquisitions or share repurchases).
We are able to supplement our liquidity needs, as required, with broad access to financing in capital markets and four bank credit facilities. Broad access to financing includes commercial paper programs in multiple markets at favorable rates given our strong credit ratings (including separate U.S. dollar and Euro multicurrency programs).
We maintain four bank credit facilities: a $6 billion 364-day facility expiring in August 2008, a $6 billion 5-year facility expiring in August 2012, a $3 billion 5-year facility expiring in August 2012 and a $1.8 billion 364-day facility expiring in June 2009. The facility expiring in August 2008 is no longer needed and is not planned to be replaced. The remaining credit facilities are in place to support our ongoing commercial paper program and can be extended for certain periods of time as specified in, and in accordance with, the terms of each credit agreement. We anticipate that these facilities will remain largely undrawn for the foreseeable future. These credit facilities do not have cross-default or ratings triggers, nor do they have material adverse events clauses, except at the time of signing. In addition to these credit facilities, we have an automatically effective registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC that is available for registered offerings of short- or long-term debt securities.
The Company's Moody's and Standard & Poor's (S&P) short-term credit ratings are P-1 and A-1+, respectively. Our Moody's and S&P long-term credit ratings are Aa3 with a negative outlook and AA- with a stable outlook, respectively.
Treasury Purchases. Total share repurchases in 2008 were $10.0 billion, nearly all of which were made under our publicly announced share repurchase plan. Under this plan, which began in July 2007, the Company expects to repurchase $24 - 30 billion of Company shares at a rate of $8 - 10 billion per year. Total share repurchases in 2007 were $5.6 billion.
Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, which we believe could have a material impact on financial condition or liquidity.
Contractual Commitments. The following table provides information on our contractual commitments as of June 30, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
In preparing our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, there are certain accounting policies that are particularly important. These include revenue recognition, income taxes, certain employee benefits, acquisitions, and goodwill and intangible assets. We believe these accounting policies, and others set forth in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, should be reviewed as they are integral to understanding the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. In
the case of revenue recognition, these policies simply represent required accounting and there is minimal judgment or estimation involved. In other areas, they may represent a choice between acceptable accounting methods or may require substantial judgment or estimation in their application.
Due to the nature of our business, these estimates generally are not considered highly uncertain at the time of estimation, meaning they are not expected to result in changes that would materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in any given year.
The Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.
Revenue Recognition
Most of our revenue transactions represent sales of inventory, and we recognize revenue when title, ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which can be on the date of shipment or the date of receipt by the customer. The revenue recorded is presented net of sales and other taxes we collect on behalf of governmental authorities and includes shipping and handling costs, which generally are included in the list price to the customer. A provision for payment discounts and product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales within the same period that the revenue is recognized. We offer sales incentives to customers and consumers through various programs, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer coupons. The cost of these programs is recognized as incurred and recorded as a reduction of sales. Given the nature of our business, revenue recognition practices do not contain estimates that materially affect results of operations.
Income Taxes
Our annual tax rate is determined based on our income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. Tax law requires certain items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expenditures for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet been recognized in our financial statements or assets recorded at fair value in business combinations for which there was no corresponding tax basis adjustment.
Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Realization of certain deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction prior to the expiration of the carry-forward periods. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized.
We operate in multiple jurisdictions with complex regulatory environments subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. In certain of these jurisdictions we may take positions that management believes are supportable, but are potentially subject to successful challenge by the applicable taxing authority. We evaluate our tax positions and establish liabilities in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" (FIN 48). We review these tax uncertainties in light of the changing
facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, and adjust them accordingly. We have a number of audits in process in various jurisdictions. Although the resolution of these tax positions is uncertain, based on currently available information, we believe that the ultimate outcomes will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Because there are a number of estimates and assumptions inherent in calculating the various components of our tax provision, certain changes or future events such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings, completion of tax audits or earnings repatriation plans could have an impact on those estimates and our effective tax rate.
Employee Benefits
We sponsor various post-employment benefits throughout the world. These include pension plans, both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, and other post-employment benefit (OPEB) plans, consisting primarily of health care and life insurance for retirees. For accounting purposes, the defined benefit and OPEB plans require assumptions to estimate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations, including the following variables: discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; expected return on assets and health care cost trend rates. These and other assumptions affect the annual expense and obligations recognized for the underlying plans. Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and management's best judgment regarding future expectations. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the net amount by which actual results differ from our assumptions is deferred. If this net deferred amount exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the deferred amount is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes, such as increasing or decreasing benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost), is deferred and included in expense on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is important, since many of our defined benefit plans and our primary OPEB plan are funded. The process for setting the expected rates of return is described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 2008, the average return on assets assumption for pension plan assets and OPEB assets was 7.4% and 9.3%, respectively. A change in the rate of return of 0.5% for both pension and OPEB assets would impact annual benefit expense by less than $50 million after tax.
Since pension and OPEB liabilities are measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate is a significant assumption. Discount rates used for our U.S. defined benefit and OPEB plans are based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality bonds for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximate the estimated payouts of the plan. For our international plans, the discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment grade corporate bonds rated AA or better. The average discount rate on the defined benefit pension plans of 6.3% represents a weighted average of local rates in countries where such plans exist. A 0.5% change in the discount rate would impact annual after-tax benefit expense by less than $50 million. The rate on the OPEB plan of 6.9% reflects the higher interest rates generally applicable in the U.S., which is where a majority of the plan participants receive benefits. A 0.5% change in the discount rate would impact annual after-tax OPEB expense by less than $10 million.
Certain defined contribution pension and OPEB benefits in the U.S. are funded by the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP), as discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Acquisitions
We account for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method, our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the operations of an acquired business starting from the completion of the acquisition. In addition, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed must be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values, with any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired recorded as goodwill.
Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of intangible assets and in assigning their respective useful lives. Accordingly, we typically obtain the assistance of third-party valuation specialists for significant items. The fair value estimates are based on available historical information and on future expectations and assumptions deemed reasonable by management, but are inherently uncertain.
We typically use an income method to estimate the fair value of intangible assets, which is based on forecasts of the expected future cash flows attributable to the respective assets. Significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the valuations reflect a consideration of other marketplace participants, and include the amount and timing of future cash flows (including expected growth rates and profitability), the underlying product or technology life cycles, economic barriers to entry, a brand's relative market position and the discount rate applied to the cash flows. Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions.
Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. Certain brand intangibles are expected to have indefinite lives based on their history and our plans to continue to support and build the acquired brands. Other acquired brands are expected to have determinable useful lives. Our assessment as to brands that have an indefinite life and those that have a determinable life is based on a number of factors including competitive environment, market share, brand history, underlying product life cycles, operating plans and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brands are sold. Our estimates of the useful lives of determinable-lived intangibles, primarily including brands, technologies and customer relationships, are primarily based on these same factors. All of our acquired technology and customer-related intangibles are expected to have determinable useful lives.
Other significant estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions include exit costs. Provided certain criteria are met, exit costs related to acquired operations are treated as assumed liabilities. If those criteria are not met, the costs are treated as operating expenses of the combined company as incurred. Exit costs, consisting primarily of severance costs, facility closure and other exit costs related to redundant manufacturing, selling, general and administrative functions, are based upon plans that have been committed to by management but which are subject to refinement. Significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the calculation of exit costs relate to the number of employees that will be terminated, future costs to operate and eventually vacate duplicate facilities and costs to terminate agreements. These estimates and assumptions may change as we execute approved plans. Decreases to the estimated costs are generally recorded as an adjustment to goodwill. Increases to the estimates are generally recorded as an adjustment to goodwill during the purchase price allocation period (generally within one year of the acquisition date) and as operating expenses thereafter.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Acquired intangible assets may represent indefinite-lived assets (e.g., certain trademarks or brands), determinable-lived intangibles (e.g., certain trademarks or brands, customer relationships, patents and technologies) or residual goodwill. Of these, only the costs of determinable-lived intangibles are amortized to expense over their estimated life. The value of indefinite-lived intangible assets and residual goodwill is not amortized, but is tested at least annually for impairment. Our impairment testing for goodwill is performed separately from our impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangibles. We test goodwill for impairment, at least annually, by reviewing the book value compared to the fair
value at the reportable unit level. We test individual indefinite-lived intangibles at least annually by reviewing the individual book values compared to the fair value. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows to measure fair value. Assumptions used in the Company's impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and cost of capital, are consistent with internal projections and operating plans. We believe such assumptions and estimates are also comparable to those that would be used by other marketplace participants. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, indefinite-lived intangible assets may be reclassified to a determinable life asset and an additional impairment assessment may be performed. We did not recognize any material impairment charges for goodwill or intangible assets during the years presented.
The recorded value of goodwill and intangible assets from recently acquired businesses are derived from more recent business operating plans and macroeconomic environmental conditions and therefore are more susceptible to an adverse change that could require an impairment charge. Indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $27.9 billion at June 30, 2008, of which $24.7 billion represent recently acquired Gillette intangible assets. The Gillette indefinite-lived intangible assets were recorded at estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Total goodwill is $59.8 billion at June 30, 2008, of which $38.0 billion results from the Gillette acquisition. Such goodwill reflects the residual amount from a purchase price allocation as of the acquisition date. Because the Gillette intangible and goodwill amounts represent current values as of the relatively recent acquisition date, such amounts are more susceptible to an impairment risk if business operating results or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate.
New Accounting Pronouncements
As more fully discussed in Notes 1 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on July 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" (FIN 48). FIN 48 addresses the accounting and disclosure of uncertain tax positions. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The difference between the tax benefit recognized in the financial statements for a position in accordance with FIN 48 and the tax benefit claimed in the tax return is referred to as an unrecognized tax benefit.
As more fully discussed in Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we adopted SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)," (SFAS 158) at June 30, 2007. SFAS 158 requires companies to recognize the over-funded and under-funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as assets or liabilities on their balance sheets and to recognize previously unrecognized changes in that funded status, in the year in which changes occur, through other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity.
In September 2006 the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS 157). This standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The standard, as amended, is effective for the Company beginning July 1, 2008, for certain financial assets and liabilities and beginning July 1, 2009, for non-financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. We believe that the adoption of SFAS 157 will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised), "Business Combinations" (SFAS 141(R)) and SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51" (SFAS 160). SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 revise the method of accounting for a number of aspects of business combinations and noncontrolling interests, including acquisition costs, contingencies (including contingent assets, contingent liabilities and contingent purchase price), the impacts of partial and step-acquisitions (including the valuation of net assets attributable to non-acquired minority interests), and post acquisition exit activities of acquired businesses. SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will be effective for the Company during our fiscal year beginning July 1, 2009.
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133" (SFAS 161). SFAS 161 impacts disclosures only and will provide additional qualitative and quantitative information on the use of derivatives and their impact on an entity's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS 161 will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009.
No other new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the fiscal year has had or is expected to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
OTHER INFORMATION
Hedging and Derivative Financial Instruments
As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. To manage the volatility related to these exposures, we evaluate our exposures on a global basis to take advantage of the direct netting opportunities and of currency, interest rate and commodity correlations that exist within the portfolio. For the remaining exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions in accordance with the Company's hedging policies that are designed to partially, or entirely, offset changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes a detailed discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments.
Derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuation, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk modeling. The tests for interest rate, currency rate and commodity price exposures discussed below are based on the CorporateManager  value-at-risk model using a one-year horizon and a 95% confidence level. The model incorporates the impact of correlation (the degree to which exposures move together over time) and diversification (from holding multiple currency, commodity and interest rate instruments) and assumes that financial returns are normally distributed. Estimates of volatility and correlations of market factors are drawn from the RiskMetrics dataset as of June 30, 2008. In cases where data is unavailable in RiskMetrics, a reasonable proxy is included.
Our market risk exposures relative to interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices, as discussed below, have not changed materially versus the previous reporting period. In addition, we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would significantly impact such exposures in the near term.
Interest Rate Exposure on Financial Instruments. Interest rate swaps are used to hedge exposures to interest rate movement on underlying debt obligations. Certain interest rate swaps denominated in foreign currencies are designated to hedge exposures to currency exchange rate movements on our investments in foreign operations. These currency interest rate swaps are designated as hedges of the Company's foreign net investments.
Based on our overall interest rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2008, including derivative and other instruments sensitive to interest rates, we believe a near-term change in interest rates, at a 95% confidence level based on historical interest rate movements, would not materially affect our financial statements.
Currency Rate Exposure on Financial Instruments. Because we manufacture and sell products in a number of countries throughout the world, we are exposed to the impact on revenue and expenses of movements in currency exchange rates. The primary purpose of our currency hedging activities is to reduce the risk that our financial position will be adversely affected by short-term changes in exchange rates. Corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. We primarily use forward contracts and options with maturities of less than 18 months.
In addition, we enter into certain currency swaps with maturities of up to five years to hedge our exposure to exchange rate movements on intercompany financing transactions. We also use purchased currency options with maturities of generally less than 18 months and forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on intercompany royalties and to offset a portion of the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on income from international operations.
Based on our overall currency rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2008, we believe, at a 95% confidence level based on historical currency rate movements, the impact of a near-term change in currency rates on derivative and other instruments would not materially affect our financial statements.
Commodity Price Exposure on Financial Instruments. We use raw materials that are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. In addition to fixed price contracts, we use futures, options and swap contracts to manage the volatility related to the above exposures.
Based on our overall commodity price exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2008, we believe, at a 95% confidence level based on historical commodity price movements, the impact of a near-term change in commodity prices on derivative and other instruments would not materially affect our financial statements.
Measures Not Defined By U.S. GAAP
Our discussion of financial results includes several "non-GAAP" financial measures. We believe these measures provide our investors with additional information about our underlying results and trends, as well as insight to some of the metrics used to evaluate management. When used in MD&A, we have provided the comparable GAAP measure in the discussion. These measures include:
Organic Sales Growth. Organic sales growth measures sales growth excluding the impacts of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestitures from year-over-year comparisons. The Company believes this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying results and trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
The following table provides a numerical reconciliation of organic sales growth to reported net sales growth for fiscal 2008:
 
The following table provides a numerical reconciliation of organic sales growth to reported net sales growth for fiscal 2007:
 
Free Cash Flow. Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending. The Company views free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.
Free Cash Flow Productivity. Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. The Company's target is to generate free cash flow at or above 90% of net earnings. Free cash flow productivity is one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.
The following table provides a numerical reconciliation of free cash flow:
 

Exhibit 99.2
Revised Consolidated Financial Statements and Accompanying Footnotes
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Nature of Operations
The Procter & Gamble Company's (the "Company," "we" or "us") business is focused on providing branded consumer goods products of superior quality and value. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries primarily through retail operations including mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, salons and high-frequency stores. We have on-the-ground operations in approximately 80 countries.
Basis of Presentation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include The Procter & Gamble Company and its controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions are eliminated.
Use of Estimates
Preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions the Company may undertake in the future. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, consumer and trade promotion accruals, pensions, post-employment benefits, stock options, valuation of acquired intangible assets, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, future cash flows associated with impairment testing for goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets, deferred tax assets, uncertain income tax positions and contingencies. Actual results may ultimately differ from estimates, although management does not believe such differences would materially affect the financial statements in any individual year.
Revenue Recognition
Sales are recognized when revenue is realized or realizable and has been earned. Most revenue transactions represent sales of inventory. The revenue recorded is presented net of sales and other taxes we collect on behalf of governmental authorities and includes shipping and handling costs, which generally are included in the list price to the customer. Our policy is to recognize revenue when title to the product, ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which can be on the date of shipment or the date of receipt by the customer. A provision for payment discounts and product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales in the same period that the revenue is recognized.
Trade promotions, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer coupons, are offered through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales are recorded net of trade promotion spending, which is recognized as incurred, generally at the time of the sale. Most of these arrangements have terms of approximately one year. Accruals for expected payouts under these programs are included as accrued marketing and promotion in the accrued and other liabilities line item in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
Cost of Products Sold
Cost of products sold is primarily comprised of direct materials and supplies consumed in the manufacture of product, as well as manufacturing labor, depreciation expense and direct overhead expense necessary to acquire and convert the purchased materials and supplies into finished product. Cost of products sold also includes the cost to distribute products to customers, inbound freight costs, internal transfer costs, warehousing costs and other shipping and handling activity.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense is primarily comprised of marketing expenses, selling expenses, research and development costs, administrative and other indirect overhead costs, depreciation and amortization expense on non-manufacturing assets and other miscellaneous operating items. Research and development costs are charged to expense as incurred and were $2,212 in 2008, $2,100 in 2007 and $2,060 in 2006. Advertising costs, charged to expense as incurred, include worldwide television, print, radio, internet and in-store advertising expenses and were $8,583 in 2008, $7,850 in 2007 and $7,045 in 2006. Non-advertising related components of the Company's total marketing spending include costs associated with consumer promotions, product sampling and sales aids, all of which are included in SG&A expense, as well as coupons and customer trade funds, which are recorded as reductions to net sales.
Other Non-Operating Income, Net
Other non-operating income, net, primarily includes divestiture gains and interest and investment income.
Currency Translation
Financial statements of operating subsidiaries outside the United States of America (U.S.) generally are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Adjustments to translate those statements into U.S. dollars are recorded in other comprehensive income. Currency translation adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income were gains of $9,484 and $2,941 at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies, the U.S. dollar is the functional currency. Remeasurement adjustments for financial statements in highly inflationary economies and other transactional exchange gains and losses are reflected in earnings.
Cash Flow Presentation
The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect method, which reconciles net earnings to cash flow from operating activities. The reconciliation adjustments include the removal of timing differences between the occurrence of operating receipts and payments and their recognition in net earnings. The adjustments also remove cash flows from operating activities arising from investing and financing activities, which are presented separately from operating activities. Cash flows from foreign currency transactions and operations are translated at an average exchange rate for the period. Cash flows from hedging activities are included in the same category as the items being hedged. Cash flows from derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges are classified as financing activities. Realized gains and losses from non-qualifying derivative instruments used to hedge currency exposures resulting from intercompany financing transactions are also classified as financing activities. Cash flows from other derivative instruments used to manage interest, commodity or other currency exposures are classified as operating activities. Cash payments related to income taxes are classified as operating activities.
 
Cash Equivalents
Highly liquid investments with remaining stated maturities of three months or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents and recorded at cost.
Investments
Investment securities consist of readily marketable debt and equity securities. Unrealized gains or losses are charged to earnings for investments classified as trading and to shareholders' equity for investments classified as available-for-sale. Auction rate securities are classified as other noncurrent assets with unrealized losses charged to shareholders' equity unless an impairment is judged to be other than temporary, in which case it is charged to earnings.
Investments in certain companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control the financial and operating decisions, are accounted for as equity method investments. Other investments that are not controlled, and over which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value. Product-related inventories are primarily maintained on the first-in, first-out method. Minor amounts of product inventories, including certain cosmetics and commodities, are maintained on the last-in, first-out method. The cost of spare part inventories is maintained using the average cost method.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost reduced by accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense is recognized over the assets' estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Machinery and equipment includes office furniture and fixtures (15-year life), computer equipment and capitalized software (3- to 5-year lives) and manufacturing equipment (3- to 20-year lives). Buildings are depreciated over an estimated useful life of 40 years. Estimated useful lives are periodically reviewed and, when appropriate, changes are made prospectively. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, asset lives may be adjusted and an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
We have a number of acquired brands that have been determined to have indefinite lives due to the nature of our business. We evaluate a number of factors to determine whether an indefinite life is appropriate, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history, product life cycles, operating plans and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brands are sold. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, an impairment assessment is performed and indefinite-lived brands may be adjusted to a determinable life.
 
Goodwill and indefinite-lived brands are not amortized, but are evaluated annually for impairment or when indicators of a potential impairment are present. Our impairment testing of goodwill is performed separately from our impairment testing of individual indefinite-lived intangibles. The annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles is based on valuation models that incorporate assumptions and internal projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans. We believe such assumptions are also comparable to those that would be used by other marketplace participants.
The cost of intangible assets with determinable useful lives is amortized to reflect the pattern of economic benefits consumed, either on a straight-line or accelerated basis over the estimated periods benefited. Patents, technology and other intangibles with contractual terms are generally amortized over their respective legal or contractual lives. Customer relationships and other noncontractual intangible assets with determinable lives are amortized over periods generally ranging from 5 to 40 years. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, an impairment assessment is performed and lives of intangible assets with determinable lives may be adjusted.
Fair Values of Financial Instruments
Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. The estimated fair values of such financial instruments (including certain debt instruments, investment securities and derivatives) have been determined using market information and valuation methodologies, primarily discounted cash flow analysis. Changes in assumptions or estimation methods could affect the fair value estimates. However, we do not believe any such changes would have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Other financial instruments, including cash equivalents, other investments and short-term debt, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. The fair values of long-term debt and derivative instruments are disclosed in Note 5 and Note 6, respectively.
Reclassification
The Company has reclassified certain amounts in the Statements of Cash Flows. Realized gains and losses from non-qualifying derivative instruments used to hedge currency exposures resulting from intercompany financing transactions were reclassified from operating activities to financing activities, which is consistent with the use of the instruments and their related cash flows.
New Accounting Pronouncements and Policies
Other than as described below, no new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the fiscal year has had or is expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
ADOPTION OF FIN 48, "ACCOUNTING FOR UNCERTAINTY IN INCOME TAXES  AN INTERPRETATION OF FASB STATEMENT NO. 109"
On July 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" (FIN 48). FIN 48 addresses the accounting and disclosure of uncertain tax positions. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The difference between the tax benefit recognized in the financial statements for a position in accordance with FIN 48 and the tax benefit claimed in the tax return is referred to as an unrecognized tax benefit.
 
The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in a decrease to retained earnings as of July 1, 2007, of $232, which was reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, with a corresponding increase to the net liability for unrecognized tax benefits. The impact primarily reflects the accrual of additional statutory interest and penalties as required by FIN 48, partially offset by adjustments to existing unrecognized tax benefits to comply with FIN 48 measurement principles. The implementation of FIN 48 also resulted in a reduction in our net tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions related to prior acquisitions accounted for under purchase accounting, resulting in an $80 decrease to goodwill. Additionally, the Company historically classified unrecognized tax benefits in current taxes payable. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48, unrecognized tax benefits not expected to be paid in the next 12 months were reclassified to other noncurrent liabilities on a prospective basis.
The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of the adoption of FIN 48 at July 1, 2007, was $2,971, excluding any related accruals for interest and penalties. Included in this total was $1,893 that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate in future periods. We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Accrued interest and penalties as of July 1, 2007, were $589 and $128, respectively, on an after-tax basis. Refer to Note 10 for additional information regarding uncertain tax positions and related activity in the current year.
ADOPTION OF FASB STANDARD 158, "EMPLOYERS' ACCOUNTING FOR DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS-AN AMENDMENT OF FASB STATEMENTS NO. 87, 88, 106, AND 132(R)"
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans - an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires companies to recognize the over-funded and under-funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as assets or liabilities on their balance sheets. In addition, changes in the funded status must be recognized through other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity in the year in which the changes occur. We adopted SFAS 158 on June 30, 2007. In accordance with the transition rules in SFAS 158, this standard was adopted on a prospective basis. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in an adjustment to our balance sheet, but had no impact on our net earnings or cash flow, nor did it impact any debt covenants. SFAS 158 had no impact on our measurement date, which continues to be as of our fiscal year-end. Refer to Note 9 for additional information regarding our pension and postretirement plans.
 
The following table reflects the effect of the adoption of SFAS 158 on our Consolidated Balance Sheets:
 
FASB STANDARDS 141(R), "BUSINESS COMBINATIONS," AND 160, "NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS IN CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-AN AMENDMENT OF ARB NO. 51"
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised), "Business Combinations," (SFAS 141(R)) and SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements-an amendment of ARB No. 51" (SFAS 160). SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 revise the method of accounting for a number of aspects of business combinations and noncontrolling interests, including acquisition costs, contingencies (including contingent assets, contingent liabilities and contingent purchase price), the impacts of partial and step-acquisitions (including the valuation of net assets attributable to non-acquired minority interests) and post acquisition exit activities of acquired businesses. SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will be effective for the Company during our fiscal year beginning July 1, 2009. The Company believes that the adoption of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will not have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
FASB STANDARD 157, "FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS"
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS 157). This standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157, as amended, is effective for the Company beginning July 1, 2008, for certain financial assets and liabilities and beginning July 1, 2009, for non-financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The Company believes that the adoption of SFAS 157 will not have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
FASB STANDARD 161, "DISCLOSURES ABOUT DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES-AN AMENDMENT OF FASB STATEMENT NO. 133"
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities-An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133" (SFAS 161). SFAS 161 impacts disclosures only and will provide additional qualitative and quantitative information on the use of derivatives and their impact on an entity's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. SFAS 161 will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009.
 
NOTE 2 ACQUISITIONS
Gillette Acquisition
On October 1, 2005, we completed our acquisition of The Gillette Company. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, which provided for the exchange of 0.975 shares of The Procter & Gamble Company common stock, on a tax-free basis, for each share of The Gillette Company, we issued 962 million shares of The Procter & Gamble Company common stock. The value of these shares was determined using the average Company stock prices beginning two days before and ending two days after January 28, 2005, the date the acquisition was announced. We also issued 79 million stock options in exchange for Gillette's outstanding stock options. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total consideration was approximately $53.4 billion including common stock, the fair value of vested stock options and acquisition costs. This acquisition ultimately resulted in a new Grooming reportable segment. The Gillette oral care, batteries and personal care businesses were subsumed within the Health Care, Fabric Care and Home Care, and Beauty reportable segments, respectively. The operating results of the Gillette businesses are reported in our financial statements beginning October 1, 2005.
The Gillette Company was a market leader in several global product categories including blades and razors, oral care and batteries. Total sales for Gillette during its most recent pre-acquisition year ended December 31, 2004, were $10.5 billion.
In order to obtain regulatory approval of the transaction, we were required to divest certain overlapping businesses. We completed the divestiture of the Spinbrush toothbrush business, Rembrandt (a Gillette oral care product line), Right Guard and other Gillette deodorant brands during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006.
In connection with this acquisition, we also announced a share buyback plan, which we completed in July 2006, under which we acquired $20.1 billion of Company common shares either through the open market or from private transactions.
In conjunction with the acquisition of The Gillette Company, we recognized an assumed liability for Gillette exit costs of $1.2 billion, including $854 in separation costs related to approximately 5,500 people, $55 in employee relocation costs and $320 in other exit costs. These costs are primarily related to the elimination of selling, general and administrative overlap between the two companies in areas like Global Business Services, corporate staff and go-to-market support, as well as redundant manufacturing capacity. These activities are substantially complete as of June 30, 2008. Total integration plan charges against the assumed liability were $286, $438 and $204 for the years ended June 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A total of $121 of the liability was reversed, which resulted in a reduction to goodwill during the year ended June 30, 2008, related to underspending on a number of projects that were concluded during the period.
Other minor business purchases and intangible asset acquisitions totaled $418, $540 and $395 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
NOTE 3 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The change in the net carrying amount of goodwill by Global Business Unit (GBU) was as follows:
 
The increase in goodwill from June 30, 2007, is primarily due to currency translation.
The Snacks and Pet Care reportable segment includes goodwill attributed to our coffee business.
 
Identifiable intangible assets were comprised of:
 
The amortization of intangible assets for the years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $649, $640 and $587, respectively. Estimated amortization expense over the next five years is as follows: 2009 - $626; 2010 - $599; 2011 - $549; 2012 - $512; and 2013 - $489. Such estimates do not reflect the impact of future foreign exchange rate changes.
NOTE 4 SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Selected components of current and noncurrent liabilities were as follows:
 
 
NOTE 5 SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
 
The weighted average short-term interest rates were 2.7% and 5.0% as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, including the effects of interest rate swaps discussed in Note 6.
 
 
 
Long-term weighted average interest rates were 4.5% and 3.3% as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, including the effects of interest rate swaps and net investment hedges discussed in Note 6.
The fair value of the long-term debt was $23,276 and $23,122 at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Long-term debt maturities during the next five years are as follows: 2009 - $1,746; 2010 - $5,508; 2011 - $43; 2012 - $1,643; and 2013 - $2,240.
The Procter & Gamble Company fully and unconditionally guarantees the registered debt and securities issued by its 100% owned finance subsidiaries.
NOTE 6 RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks, such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. To manage the volatility related to these exposures, we evaluate exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of logical exposure netting and correlation. For the remaining exposures, we enter into various financial transactions, which we account for under SFAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended and interpreted. The utilization of these financial transactions is governed by our policies covering acceptable counterparty exposure, instrument types and other hedging practices. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes.
At inception, we formally designate and document qualifying instruments as hedges of underlying exposures. We formally assess, both at inception and at least quarterly on an ongoing basis, whether the financial instruments used in hedging transactions are effective at offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposure. Fluctuations in the value of these instruments generally are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the underlying exposures being hedged. This offset is driven by the high degree of effectiveness between the exposure being hedged and the hedging instrument. Any ineffective portion of a change in the fair value of a qualifying instrument is immediately recognized in earnings.
Credit Risk
We have counterparty credit guidelines and normally enter into transactions with investment grade financial institutions. Counterparty exposures are monitored daily and downgrades in credit rating are reviewed on a timely basis. Credit risk arising from the inability of a counterparty to meet the terms of our financial instrument contracts generally is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparty's obligations exceed our obligations to the counterparty. We have not incurred and do not expect to incur material credit losses on our risk management or other financial instruments.
Interest Rate Management
Our policy is to manage interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. To manage this risk in a cost-efficient manner, we enter into interest rate swaps in which we agree to exchange with the counterparty, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount.
 
Interest rate swaps that meet specific criteria under SFAS 133 are accounted for as fair value and cash flow hedges. There were no fair value hedging instruments at June 30, 2008, or June 30, 2007. For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument is reported in other comprehensive income (OCI) and reclassified into interest expense over the life of the underlying debt. The ineffective portion, which is not material for any year presented, is immediately recognized in earnings. The fair value of these cash flow hedging instruments was a liability of $17 and an asset of $53 at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the next 12 months, $4 of the June 30, 2008 OCI balance will be reclassified to earnings consistent with the timing of the underlying hedged transactions.
Foreign Currency Management
We manufacture and sell our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The purpose of our foreign currency hedging program is to reduce the risk caused by short-term changes in exchange rates.
To manage this exchange rate risk, we primarily utilize forward contracts and options with maturities of less than 18 months and currency swaps with maturities up to five years. These instruments are intended to offset the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on forecasted sales, inventory purchases, intercompany royalties and intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies and are therefore accounted for as cash flow hedges. The fair value of these instruments at June 30, 2008 and 2007, was $4 and $34 in assets and $37 and $2 in liabilities, respectively. The effective portion of the changes in fair value of these instruments is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line item and in the same period or periods during which the related hedged transactions affect earnings. The ineffective portion, which is not material for any year presented, is immediately recognized in earnings.
Certain instruments used to manage foreign exchange exposure of intercompany financing transactions, income from international operations and other balance sheet items subject to revaluation do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. In these cases, the change in value of the instruments is designed to offset the foreign currency impact of the related exposure. The fair value of these instruments at June 30, 2008 and 2007, was $190 and $110 in assets and $33 and $78 in liabilities, respectively. The change in value of these instruments is immediately recognized in earnings. The net impact of such instruments, included in selling, general and administrative expense, was $1,397, $56 and $87 of gains in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which substantially offset foreign currency transaction and translation losses of the exposures being hedged.
Net Investment Hedging
We hedge certain net investment positions in major foreign subsidiaries. To accomplish this, we either borrow directly in foreign currency and designate all or a portion of foreign currency debt as a hedge of the applicable net investment position or enter into foreign currency swaps that are designated as hedges of our related foreign net investments. Under SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of these instruments are immediately recognized in OCI to offset the change in the value of the net investment being hedged. Currency effects of these hedges reflected in OCI were after-tax losses of $2,951 and $835 in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Accumulated net balances were $5,023 and $2,072 after-tax losses as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
Commodity Price Management
Certain raw materials utilized in our products or production processes are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. To manage the volatility related to anticipated purchases of certain of these materials, we use futures and options with maturities generally less than one year and swap contracts with maturities up to five years. These market instruments generally are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. The effective portion of the changes in fair value for these instruments is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line item and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. The ineffective and non-qualifying portions, which are not material for any year presented, are immediately recognized in earnings. The fair value of these cash flow hedging instruments was an asset of $229 and $70 at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the next 12 months, $126 of the June 30, 2008 OCI balance will be reclassified to earnings consistent with the timing of the underlying hedged transactions.
Insurance
The Company purchases limited discretionary insurance to cover catastrophic property damage, business interruption and liability risk of loss exposures. Deductibles and loss sharing will likely increase over time, recognizing the Company's ability to cost-effectively fund losses from internal cash flow generation and access to capital markets.
NOTE 7 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Net earnings less preferred dividends (net of related tax benefits) are divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year to calculate basic net earnings per common share. Diluted net earnings per common share are calculated to give effect to stock options and other stock-based awards (see Note 8) and assume conversion of preferred stock (see Note 9).
 
Net earnings and common shares used to calculate basic and diluted net earnings per share were as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 8 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
We have stock-based compensation plans under which we annually grant stock option and restricted stock awards to key managers and directors. Exercise prices on options granted have been and continue to be set equal to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of the grant. The key manager stock option awards granted since September 2002 are vested after three years and have a 10-year life. The key manager stock option awards granted from July 1998 through August 2002 vested after three years and have a 15-year life. Beginning in 2008, key managers were given the alternative to elect up to 50% of the value of their option award in restricted stock units (RSUs). Key manager RSUs are vested and settled in shares of common stock five years from the grant date. The awards provided to the Company's directors are in the form of restricted stock and RSUs. In addition to our key manager and director grants, we make other minor stock options and RSU grants to employees for which the terms are not substantially different.
 
A total of 229 million shares of common stock were authorized for issuance under stock-based compensation plans approved by shareholders in 2001 and 2003, of which 50 million remain available for grant. An additional 20 million shares of common stock available for issuance under a plan approved by Gillette shareholders in 2004 were assumed by the Company in conjunction with the acquisition of The Gillette Company in October 2005. A total of 12 million of these shares remain available for grant under this plan. There were also 5 million shares available for grant under the Future Shares Plan approved by the Board of Directors 1997. This plan was terminated in October 2007.
Total stock-based compensation expense for stock option grants was $522, $612 and $526 for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for these stock-based compensation arrangements was $141, $163 and $140 for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Total compensation cost for restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based grants, was $33, $56 and $59 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
In calculating the compensation expense for options granted, we utilize a binomial lattice-based model for the valuation of stock option grants. Assumptions utilized in the model, which are evaluated and revised, as necessary, to reflect market conditions and experience, were as follows:
 
Because lattice-based option valuation models incorporate ranges of assumptions for inputs, those ranges are disclosed in the preceding table. Expected volatilities are based on a combination of historical volatility of our stock and implied volatilities of call options on our stock. We use historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination patterns within the valuation model. The expected term of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the average period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The interest rate for periods within the contractual life of the options is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
 
A summary of options outstanding under the plans as of June 30, 2008, and activity during the year then ended is presented below:
 
The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted was $15.91, $17.29 and $16.30 per share in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $1,129, $894 and $815 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total grant-date fair value of options that vested during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $532, $552 and $388, respectively. We have no specific policy to repurchase common shares to mitigate the dilutive impact of options; however, we have historically made adequate discretionary purchases, based on cash availability, market trends and other factors, to satisfy stock option exercise activity.
At June 30, 2008, there was $565 of compensation cost that has not yet been recognized related to stock awards. That cost is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average period of 1.9 years.
Cash received from options exercised was $1,837, $1,422 and $1,229 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled $318, $265 and $242 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
NOTE 9 POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN
We offer various postretirement benefits to our employees.
Defined Contribution Retirement Plans
We have defined contribution plans which cover the majority of our U.S. employees, as well as employees in certain other countries. These plans are fully funded. We generally make contributions to participants' accounts based on individual base salaries and years of service. The primary U.S. defined contribution plan (the U.S. DC plan) comprises the majority of the balances and expense for the Company's defined contribution plans. For the U.S. DC plan, the contribution rate is set annually. Total contributions for this plan approximated 15% of total participants' annual wages and salaries in 2008, 2007 and 2006.
We maintain The Procter & Gamble Profit Sharing Trust (Trust) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) to provide a portion of the funding for the U.S. DC plan, as well as other retiree benefits. Operating details of the ESOP are provided at the end of this Note. The fair value of the ESOP Series A shares allocated to participants reduces our cash contribution required to fund the U.S. DC plan. Total defined contribution expense was $290, $273, and $249 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Defined Benefit Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits
We offer defined benefit retirement pension plans to certain employees. These benefits relate primarily to local plans outside the U.S., and to a lesser extent, plans assumed in the Gillette acquisition covering U.S. employees. These acquired Gillette plans were frozen effective January 1, 2008.
We also provide certain other retiree benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, for the majority of our U.S. employees who become eligible for these benefits when they meet minimum age and service requirements. Generally, the health care plans require cost sharing with retirees and pay a stated percentage of expenses, reduced by deductibles and other coverages. These benefits are primarily funded by ESOP Series B shares, as well as certain other assets contributed by the Company.
 
Obligation and Funded Status. We use a June 30 measurement date for our defined benefit retirement plans and other retiree benefit plans. The following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of these plans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The underfunding of pension benefits is primarily a function of the different funding incentives that exist outside of the U.S. In certain countries, there are no legal requirements or financial incentives provided to companies to pre-fund pension obligations. In these instances, benefit payments are typically paid directly from the Company's cash as they become due.
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit retirement pension plans was $8,750 and $8,611 at June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2007, respectively. Pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets consist of the following:
 
 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost. Components of the net periodic benefit cost were as follows:
 
Pursuant to plan revisions adopted during 2007, Gillette's U.S. defined benefit retirement pension plans were frozen effective January 1, 2008, at which time Gillette employees in the U.S. moved into the P&G defined contribution Profit Sharing Trust and Employee Stock Ownership Plan. This revision resulted in a $154 curtailment gain for the year ended June 30, 2007.
Amounts expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net period benefit cost during the year ending June 30, 2009, are as follows:
 
 
Assumptions. We determine our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis. These assumptions are weighted to reflect each country that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. The weighted average assumptions for the defined benefit and other retiree benefit calculations, as well as assumed health care trend rates, were as follows:
 
 
 
Several factors are considered in developing the estimate for the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets. For the defined benefit retirement plans, these include historical rates of return of broad equity and bond indices and projected long-term rates of return obtained from pension investment consultants. The expected long-term rates of return for plan assets are 8%-9% for equities and 5%-6% for bonds. For other retiree benefit plans, the expected long-term rate of return reflects the fact that the assets are comprised primarily of Company stock. The expected rate of return on Company stock is based on the long-term projected return of 9.5% and reflects the historical pattern of favorable returns.
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the other retiree benefit plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
 
Plan Assets. Our target asset allocation for the year ended June 30, 2008, and actual asset allocation by asset category as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, were as follows:
 
 
Our investment objective for defined benefit retirement plan assets is to meet the plans' benefit obligations, while minimizing the potential for future required Company plan contributions. The investment strategies focus on asset class diversification, liquidity to meet benefit payments and an appropriate balance of long-term investment return and risk. Target ranges for asset allocations are determined by matching the actuarial projections of the plans' future liabilities and benefit payments with expected long-term rates of return on the assets, taking into account investment return volatility and correlations across asset classes. Plan assets are diversified across several investment managers and are generally invested in liquid funds that are selected to track broad market equity and bond indices. Investment risk is carefully controlled with plan assets rebalanced to target allocations on a periodic basis and continual monitoring of investment managers' performance relative to the investment guidelines established with each investment manager.
Cash Flows. Management's best estimate of cash requirements for the defined benefit retirement plans and other retiree benefit plans for the year ending June 30, 2009, is $575 and $22, respectively. For the defined benefit retirement plans, this is comprised of $180 in expected benefit payments from the
 
Company directly to participants of unfunded plans and $395 of expected contributions to funded plans. For other retiree benefit plans, this is comprised of expected contributions that will be used directly for benefit payments. Expected contributions are dependent on many variables, including the variability of the market value of the plan assets as compared to the benefit obligation and other market or regulatory conditions. In addition, we take into consideration our business investment opportunities and resulting cash requirements. Accordingly, actual funding may differ significantly from current estimates.
Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which include payments funded from the Company's assets, as discussed above, as well as payments paid from the plans, are as follows:
 
Employee Stock Ownership Plan
We maintain the ESOP to provide funding for certain employee benefits discussed in the preceding paragraphs.
The ESOP borrowed $1.0 billion in 1989 and the proceeds were used to purchase Series A ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the U.S. DC plan. Principal and interest requirements of the borrowing were paid by the Trust from dividends on the preferred shares and from advances provided by the Company. The original borrowing of $1.0 billion has been repaid in full, and advances from the Company of $197 remain outstanding at June 30, 2008. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was equal to the common stock dividend of $1.45 per share. The liquidation value is $6.82 per share.
In 1991, the ESOP borrowed an additional $1.0 billion. The proceeds were used to purchase Series B ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of retiree health care benefits. These shares, net of the ESOP's debt, are considered plan assets of the Other Retiree Benefits plan discussed above. Debt service requirements are funded by preferred stock dividends, cash contributions and advances provided by the Company, of which $194 is outstanding at June 30, 2008. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was equal to the common stock dividend of $1.45 per share. The liquidation value is $12.96 per share.
As permitted by SOP 93-6, "Employers Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans," we have elected, where applicable, to continue our practices, which are based on SOP 76-3, "Accounting Practices for Certain Employee Stock Ownership Plans." ESOP debt, which is guaranteed by the Company, is recorded as debt (see Note 5) with an offset to the Reserve for ESOP debt retirement, which is presented within Shareholders' Equity. Advances to the ESOP by the Company are recorded as an increase in the Reserve for ESOP Debt Retirement. Interest incurred on the ESOP debt is recorded as interest expense. Dividends on all preferred shares, net of related tax benefits, are charged to retained earnings.
 
The series A and B preferred shares of the ESOP are allocated to employees based on debt service requirements, net of advances made by the Company to the Trust. The number of preferred shares outstanding at June 30 was as follows:
 
For purposes of calculating diluted net earnings per common share, the preferred shares held by the ESOP are considered converted from inception.
In connection with the Gillette acquisition, we assumed the Gillette ESOP, which was established to assist Gillette employees in financing retiree medical costs. These ESOP accounts are held by participants and must be used to reduce the Company's other retiree benefit obligations. Such accounts reduced our obligation by $201 at June 30, 2008.
NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES
Under SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," income taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable for the current year and for the impact of deferred tax liabilities and assets, which represent future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the financial statements than for tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are established using the enacted statutory tax rates and are adjusted for any changes in such rates in the period of change.
Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes consisted of the following:
 
 
The provision for income taxes on continuing operations consisted of the following:
 
A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to our actual income tax rate on continuing operations is provided below:
 
Income tax reserve adjustments represent changes in estimated exposures related to prior year tax positions.
As discussed in Note 1, on July 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" (FIN 48). The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in a decrease to retained earnings as of July 1, 2007, of $232, which was reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, with a corresponding increase to the net liability for unrecognized tax benefits. The impact primarily reflects the accrual of additional statutory interest and penalties as required by FIN 48, partially offset by adjustments to existing unrecognized tax benefits to comply with FIN 48 measurement principles. The implementation of FIN 48 also resulted in a reduction in our net tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions related to prior acquisitions accounted for under purchase accounting, resulting in an $80 decrease to goodwill. Additionally, the Company historically classified unrecognized tax benefits in current taxes payable. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48, unrecognized tax benefits not expected to be paid in the next 12 months were reclassified to other noncurrent liabilities.
"
 
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 
Included in the total unrecognized tax benefits is $1,563 that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate in future periods.
We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Accrued interest and penalties as of June 30, 2008, were $656 and $155, respectively, and are not included in the above table. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we recognized $213 and $35 in interest and penalties, respectively.
The Company is present in over 140 taxable jurisdictions, and at any point in time, has 30-40 audits underway at various stages of completion. We evaluate our tax positions and establish liabilities for uncertain tax positions that may be challenged by local authorities and may not be fully sustained, despite our belief that the underlying tax positions are fully supportable. Uncertain tax positions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, including progress of tax audits, developments in case law and closing of statute of limitations. Such adjustments are reflected in the tax provision as appropriate. The Company has made a concerted effort to bring its audit inventory to a more current position. We have done this by working with tax authorities to conduct audits for several open years at once. We have tax years open ranging from 1997 and forward. We have $318 related to uncertain tax positions classified as current, for which we expect settlement to be made in the next 12 months. For the remaining uncertain tax positions, it is difficult at this time to estimate the timing of the resolution. In addition, we are generally not able to reliably estimate the ultimate settlement amounts until the close of the audit. While we do not expect material changes, it is possible that the amount of unrecognized benefit with respect to our uncertain tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months related to the audits described above. At this time we are not able to make a reasonable estimate of the range of impact on the balance of unrecognized tax benefits or the impact on the effective tax rate related to these items.
Tax benefits credited to shareholders' equity totaled $1,823 and $1,066 for the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These primarily relate to the tax effects of net investment hedges, excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options and the impacts of certain adjustments to pension and other retiree benefit obligations recorded in shareholders' equity, including the impact of adopting SFAS 158 in 2007.
We have undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of approximately $21 billion at June 30, 2008, for which deferred taxes have not been provided. Such earnings are considered indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiaries. If such earnings were repatriated, additional tax expense may result, although the calculation of such additional taxes is not practicable.
 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were comprised of the following:
 
Net operating loss carryforwards were $1,515 and $1,442 at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. If unused, $629 will expire between 2009 and 2028. The remainder, totaling $886 at June 30, 2008, may be carried forward indefinitely.
NOTE 11 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Guarantees
In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures, we may provide routine indemnifications (e.g., indemnification for representations and warranties and retention of previously existing environmental, tax and employee liabilities) of which terms range in duration and in some circumstances are not explicitly defined. The maximum obligation under some indemnifications is not explicitly stated and, as a result, the overall amount of these obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, we have not made significant payments for these indemnifications. We believe that if we were to incur a loss on any of these matters, the loss would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In certain situations, we guarantee loans for suppliers and customers. The total amount of guarantees issued under such arrangements is not material.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, under FIN 46(R), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," that have a material impact on our financial statements.
Purchase Commitments
We have purchase commitments for materials, supplies, services and property, plant and equipment as part of the normal course of business. Commitments made under take-or-pay obligations are as follows: 2009 - $1,205; 2010 - $917; 2011 - $745; 2012 - $688; 2013 - $408; and $363 thereafter. Such amounts represent future purchases in line with expected usage to obtain favorable pricing. Approximately 35% of our purchase commitments relate to service contracts for information technology, human resources management and facilities management activities that were outsourced in recent years. Due to the proprietary nature of many of our materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early termination. We do not expect to incur penalty payments under these provisions that would materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Operating Leases
We lease certain property and equipment for varying periods. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases are as follows: 2009 - $299; 2010 - $288; 2011 - $240; 2012 - $196; 2013 - $185; and $448 thereafter. Operating lease obligations are shown net of guaranteed sublease income.
Litigation
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business which cover a wide range of matters such as governmental regulations, antitrust and trade regulations, product liability, patent and trademark matters, income taxes and other actions.
Recently, the Company became subject to a variety of investigations into potential competition law violations in the European Union, including investigations initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 by the European Commission with the assistance of the national authorities from a variety of countries. We believe these matters involve a number of other consumer products companies and/or retail customers. The Company's policy is to comply with all laws and regulations, including all antitrust and competition laws. Competition and antitrust law inquiries often continue for several years and, if violations are found, can result in substantial fines. At this point, no significant formal claims have been made against the Company or any of our subsidiaries in connection with any of the above inquiries. We cannot at this time predict the final financial impact of these competition law issues. However, the ultimate resolution of these matters could result in fines or other costs that could materially impact future results. As these matters evolve we will, if necessary, recognize the appropriate reserves.
With respect to other litigation and claims, while considerable uncertainty exists, in the opinion of management and our counsel, the ultimate resolution of the various lawsuits and claims will not materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
We are also subject to contingencies pursuant to environmental laws and regulations that in the future may require us to take action to correct the effects on the environment of prior manufacturing and waste disposal practices. Based on currently available information, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of environmental remediation will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
NOTE 12 SEGMENT INFORMATION
Effective July 1, 2007, we made a number of changes to our organizational structure and certain of our key leadership positions. These resulted in changes to our Global Business Units (GBU) and reporting segment structure. The following discussion and segment information reflect the organizational changes for all periods presented. We are organized under three Global Business Units as follows:
 
 
 
Under U.S. GAAP, we have six reportable segments: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. The accounting policies of the businesses are generally the same as those described in Note 1. Differences between these policies and U.S. GAAP primarily reflect: income taxes, which are reflected in the businesses using applicable blended statutory rates; the recording of fixed assets at historical exchange rates in certain high-inflation economies; and the treatment of certain unconsolidated investees. Certain unconsolidated investees are managed as integral parts of our business units for management reporting purposes. Accordingly, these partially owned operations are reflected as consolidated subsidiaries in segment results, with 100% recognition of the individual income statement line items through before-tax earnings. Eliminations to adjust these line items to U.S. GAAP are included in Corporate. In determining after-tax earnings for the businesses, we eliminate the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to minority interest, and apply statutory tax rates. Adjustments to arrive at our effective tax rate are also included in Corporate.
Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities that are not reflected in the operating results used internally to measure and evaluate the businesses, as well as eliminations to adjust management reporting principles to U.S. GAAP. Operating activities in Corporate include the results of incidental businesses managed at the corporate level along with the elimination of individual revenues and expenses generated by certain unconsolidated investees discussed in the preceding paragraph over which we exert significant influence, but do not control. Operating elements also comprise certain employee benefit costs, the costs of certain restructuring-type activities to maintain a competitive cost
 
structure including manufacturing and workforce rationalization and other general corporate items. The non-operating elements primarily include interest expense, divestiture gains and interest and investing income. In addition, Corporate includes the historical results of certain divested businesses, including certain Gillette brands that were divested in 2006 as required by the regulatory authorities in relation to the Gillette acquisition. Corporate assets primarily include cash, investment securities and all goodwill.
We had net sales in the U.S. of $31.3 billion, $30.3 billion and $28.0 billion for the years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Assets in the U.S. totaled $73.8 billion and $73.5 billion as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for 15% of consolidated net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006.
 
 
 
 
NOTE 13 SUBSEQUENT EVENT
In November 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of its coffee business through the merger of its Folgers coffee subsidiary into The J.M. Smucker Company (Smucker) in an all-stock reverse Morris Trust transaction. In connection with the merger, 38.7 million shares of common stock of the Company were tendered by shareholders and exchanged for all shares of Folgers common stock, resulting in an increase of treasury stock of $2,466. Pursuant to the merger, a Smucker subsidiary merged with and into Folgers and Folgers became a wholly owned subsidiary of Smucker. The Company recorded an after tax gain on the transaction of $2,011, or $0.63 per share.
The coffee business had historically been part of the Company's Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care reportable segment, as well as the coffee portion of the P&G Professional (PGP) business which is included in the Fabric Care and Home Care segment. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets", the historical results of Folgers are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all years presented. Following is selected financial information included in net earnings from discontinued operations for the coffee business:
 
NOTE 14 QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 
 
FINANCIAL SUMMARY (UNAUDITED)
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Updated Report of the Independent Registered Public Accountant
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
The Procter & Gamble Company
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Shareholders' Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2008. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at June 30, 2008 and 2007, and the results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109," effective July 1, 2007. Also, as discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)," effective June 30, 2007.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2008, based on the criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 12, 2008, not included herein, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Internal ControlIntegrated Framework
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cincinnati, Ohio
August 12, 2008 (February 10, 2009 as to the effects of the coffee business divestiture described in Note 13)

Exhibit 23
Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following documents of our report dated August 12, 2008 (February 10, 2009 as to the effects of the coffee business divestiture described in Note 13), relating to the financial statements of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the adoption of (1) FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" and (2) SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132 (R)"), appearing in this report on Form 8-K of The Procter & Gamble Company and subsidiaries dated February 10, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cincinnati, Ohio
February 10, 2009


