FILE:PG/PG-8K-20090130082959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
   BY:
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
/S/ E. J. WUNSCH _________
   
 
E. J. Wunsch
Assistant Secretary
January 30, 2009
 
 
 
99. 
   
News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated January 30, 2009.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CINCINNATI, Jan. 30, 2009 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) announced diluted net earnings per share of $1.58, a 61 percent increase for the October - December quarter.  Earnings per share include a $0.63 gain from the Folgers transaction completed during the quarter.  Consistent with the Companys guidance for the quarter, organic sales were up two percent on price increases and positive product mix.  Net sales were three percent below the year-ago quarter at $20.4 billion primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange and lower volume.
As expected, this was a particularly challenging quarter, said Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer A.G. Lafley.  Despite this, we grew organic sales two percent and delivered against our going in EPS guidance.  We expect the environment will remain difficult and highly volatile - at least in the near term.  We are focused on the fundamentals that are critical to success in our business.  We will continue to build brands that deliver better value for consumers by leading innovation and managing cost and productivity programs with discipline.  Our efforts in these areas give me confidence that P&G will continue to grow profitably and generate attractive returns for shareholders over the long-term.
Executive Summary
- More - -
Key Financial Highlights
Net sales for the quarter decreased three percent to $20.4 billion.  Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net sales by five percent as the U.S. dollar appreciated versus the euro, British pound and Canadian dollar.  Volume declined three percent for the quarter driven primarily by trade inventory reductions and consumption declines.  Price increases added four percent and product mix added one percent to net sales.  Organic sales increased two percent for the quarter led by the Baby Care and Family Care segment and the Snacks and Pet Care segment.
Net earnings increased 53 percent for the quarter to $5.0 billion and diluted net earnings per share increased 61 percent to $1.58.  Net earnings from continuing operations declined seven percent to $3.0 billion due to lower net sales and operating margin.  Net earnings from discontinued operations were $2.0 billion for the quarter consisting primarily of the gain from the Folgers transaction completed in the quarter.  Net sales and earnings of the Folgers business, which was divested on November 8, 2008, have been removed from continuing operations and are now reported as discontinued operations in current and prior period results.
Operating margin was down 90 basis points for the quarter primarily due to higher commodity costs and Folgers-related restructuring charges.  Gross margin declined by 70 basis points to 51.6 percent as higher commodity and energy costs of about 300 basis points were largely offset by the impact of price increases and manufacturing cost savings.  Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses as a percentage of net sales were up 20 basis points to 30.7 percent.  The savings from overhead productivity programs and marketing spending efficiencies offset the de-leveraging impact of lower net sales.  Folgers-related restructuring charges, mainly in SG&A, lowered operating margins by about 40 basis points for the quarter.
Operating cash flow was $2.2 billion for the quarter.  Free cash flow, defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, was $1.5 billion.  Capital expenditures were 3.5 percent of net sales during the quarter.
Business Segment Discussion for the Quarter
The following provides perspective on the Companys October - December quarter results by business segment.
Beauty GBU
Health & Well-Being GBU
Household Care GBU
Fiscal Year and January  March Quarter Guidance
For the 2009 fiscal year, the Company expects organic sales to grow by two to five percent.  The combination of pricing and product mix is expected to impact sales growth by a positive four to five percent.  Organic volume is expected to be flat to down two percent.  Foreign exchange remains highly volatile and is expected to reduce sales by about five percent.  The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures is estimated to be flat to negative one percent.  Total sales growth is expected to be flat to negative four percent.
The Company also stated that it is comfortable with analysts current consensus earnings per share estimate of $4.29.  This approximates the mid-point of the Companys revised Fiscal 2009 guidance range of $4.20 to $4.35 per share.  The Company modified the guidance range to reflect the high level of market volatility and uncertainty that exists today.  Operating margin, which includes the impact of incremental Folgers-related restructuring charges, is expected to be consistent with the prior fiscal year.  The Companys tax rate on continuing operations is expected to be between 27 and 28 percent.
For the January - March quarter, organic sales are expected to grow two to five percent.  The combination of pricing and product mix is expected to contribute between five and seven percent to sales growth.  Organic volume is expected to decline two to three percent.  Foreign exchange is estimated to reduce net sales by high-single-digits, and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures is expected to be neutral to net sales growth for the quarter.  Total sales are expected to be down two to seven percent.
The Company expects earnings per share to be in the range of $0.78 to $0.86 for the quarter, including incremental Folgers-related restructuring charges.  Operating margin is expected to decline modestly, as Folgers-related restructuring charges, higher commodity costs and volume de-leveraging should be largely offset by productivity improvements and manufacturing cost savings programs.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this release, are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on financial data, market assumptions and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete.  We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors.  Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could differ significantly from our expectations.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties noted in this release, there are certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These include: (1) the ability to achieve business plans, including growing existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity, especially with respect to the product categories and geographical markets (including developing markets) in which the Company has chosen to focus; (2) the ability to successfully execute, manage and integrate key acquisitions and mergers and to achieve the cost and growth synergies in accordance with the stated goals of these transactions; (3) the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (4) the ability to maintain key manufacturing and supply sources (including sole supplier and plant manufacturing sources); (5) the ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property, and competition law matters), and to resolve pending matters within current estimates; (6) the ability to successfully implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans in manufacturing and overhead areas, including the Company's outsourcing projects; (7) the ability to successfully manage currency (including currency issues in volatile countries), debt, interest rate and commodity cost exposures and significant credit or liquidity issues; (8) the ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in the Company's significant geographical markets, as well as any political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions due to a global or regional credit crisis or terrorist and other hostile activities; (9) the ability to successfully manage competitive factors, including prices, promotional incentives and trade terms for products; (10) the ability to obtain patents and respond to technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to competitors; (11) the ability to successfully manage increases in the prices of raw materials used to make the Company's products; (12) the ability to stay close to consumers in an era of increased media fragmentation; and (13) the ability to stay on the leading edge of innovation and maintain a positive reputation on our brands.  For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected herein, please refer to our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports.
 
About Procter & Gamble
Three billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Actonel, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 138,000 employees working in over 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570
:
P&G Investor Relations Contacts
Mark Erceg, 513.983.2414
John Chevalier, 513.983.9974
The Procter & Gamble Company
 
Exhibit 1: Non-GAAP Measures
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings release and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.
  Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons.  We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
Organic Sales Growth:
The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales in the October  December quarter is as follows:
 
  Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.  We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment.  Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.
Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


