FILE:PG/PG-8K-20100813155549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02(e) COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
 
On August 10, 2010, The Procter & Gamble Companys (Company) Compensation & Leadership Development Committee (Committee) of the Board of Directors terminated its long-term incentive compensation plan for its senior executives and adopted a new long-term incentive compensation plan.
 
The Committee adopted its current long-term incentive compensation plan, a three-year plan called the Business Growth Plan (BGP), on September 22, 2008. The Committee determined that it was in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to terminate BGP one year early and adopt a new long-term incentive program that better supports the Companys business strategies and reinforces the principle of paying for performance.  The new plan, called the Performance Stock Program (PSP), will continue to focus on the four performance categories that were included in BGP and that the Committee believes are the most critical for creating long-term shareholder value (organic sales, core earnings per share growth, before tax operating profit growth and free cash flow productivity). It also  ;includes several new features that are more consistent with the Committees principles and objectives of paying for performance, supporting the business strategy and driving superior business results.  These new features include: annual grants with overlapping performance periods, the elimination of interim payments, payment entirely in performance-vested equity rather than cash, and more precise performance goals tied to our performance
versus peer companies.  The PSP is also better aligned with the best practices of our peer companies as most have similar long-term incentive programs.
 
Under the PSP, the Committee will grant each participant performance share units (PSUs) that will be earned over a three-year performance period which begins each year on July 1, with the first period beginning July 1 2010. The number of PSUs granted to each participant will be based on the target long-term incentive compensation for individuals in similar positions at peer group companies after adjusting for the Companys other long-term incentive programs. The PSUs will vest at the end of the performance period, and the number of PSUs that vest will range from 0-200% of the initial PSU grant based on the Companys results against performance goals in each of the four categories listed above. Once vested, PSUs will be paid in shares of the Companys common stock distributed to participants following the performance period.  A summary of the PSP approved by the Committee is attached as Exhibit 99.
st
st
 
In conjunction with the termination of BGP, the Committee approved the final payment under that program based upon the shortened performance period ending on June 30, 2010. Since the program was terminated one year early, the Committee calculated the final payment by (1) reducing each participants BGP target award by 1/3; (2) applying the previously approved BGP sliding scale to establish a payout factor for each performance category based on results achieved as of June 30, 2010; and (3) subtracting the value of any interim payments received. This compensates participants consistent with the orig inal objectives of BGP while avoiding any possibility of double payment under BGP and PSP for the current fiscal year. The final payment will be made in RSUs that will be paid in shares of the Companys common stock in September 2011, the same date on which each participant would have received the final BGP payment had the Committee not elected to change the plan.  The total payout under BGP was 42% of the reduced target, more than half of which had already been paid to executives pursuant to interim payments. The final payment received by each named executive officer will be as follows: Mr. McDonald - $646,000, Mr. Moeller  $204,000, Mr. Geissler  $295,800, Mr. Panayotopoulos - $309,400, Mr. Shirley - $251,600, and Mr. Steele - $295,800.
rd
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
 
 BY:  
   
   
   
   
/s/ E. J. W UNSCH
   
   
   
   
  E. J. Wunsch
   
   
   
   
  Assistant Secretary
   
   
   
   
  August 13, 2010
   
   
   
   
 
EXHIBIT(S)
 

 
Ex. 99 - - PSP Summary
 
The Performance Stock Program (PSP) is a part of The Procter & Gamble Companys (the Company) long-term incentive compensation and is designed to provide additional focus on key Company measures for top executives with senior management responsibility for total Company results.  Awards granted under the PSP (PSP Awards) are made pursuant to authority delegated to the Compensation & Leadership Development Committee (the C&LD Committee) by the Board of Directors for determining compensation for the Companys principal officers and for making awards under the Procter & Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2009 Plan) or any successor stock plan approved in accordance with applicable listing standards.  To the extent awarded under the 2009 Plan, the PSP Awards are Performance Awards (as defined in the 2009 Plan).
 
I.           
ELIGIBILITY
 
The Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and those principal officers at Band 7 or above recommended by management and approved by the C&LD Committee are eligible to participate (Participants).
 
II.           
OVERVIEW
 
PSP rewards Participants for Company performance against certain three-year performance goals in categories established by the C&LD Committee.  The C&LD Committee sets these performance goals for each three-year period that begins on July 1 and ends on June 30 three years later (Performance Period).  In the first year of each Performance Period, the C&LD Committee grants Performance Stock Units (PSUs) to Participants that will vest at the end of the Performance Period based on the Companys performance relative to the pre-established performance goals (Initial PSU Grant).  The number of PSUs that vest at the end of the Performance Period depends on the Companys performance against the pre-established performance goals.  Vested PSUs a re converted into shares of the Companys common stock (Common Stock) delivered to the applicable Participant within 60 days following the end of the Performance Period, or such later date as may be elected by the Participant in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 409A).
 
III.           
THE INITIAL PSU GRANT
 
The C&LD Committee has the sole discretion to establish the target award (PSP Target) for each Participant.  The PSP Target will be a cash amount and will be the basis for the Initial PSU Grant.  The C&LD Committee will make the Initial PSU Grant on the last business date in February (Grant Date) following the beginning of each Performance Period.  The Initial PSU Grant will set forth a target and maximum number of PSUs.  The Initial PSU Grant target will be determined by dividing the PSP Target by the price of the Companys Common Stock as determined by the Regulations of the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee for the 2009 Plan, rounding to the nearest whole unit.  The Initial PSU Grant maximum will be two times the Initial PSU Gran t target.
 
 
The PSP Award is based on the Companys performance in each of the following categories (each a Performance Category):
 
 
Within the first 90 days of each Performance Period, the C&LD Committee sets three-year performance goals (Performance Goals) for each Performance Category for such Performance Period and establishes a sliding scale to measure the Companys performance against each Performance Goal in each Performance Category.  The C&LD Committee uses the sliding scale to establish a payout factor between 0% and 200% for each Performance Category  ( a Sales Factor, Profit Factor,  EPS Factor and Cash Flow Factor, collectively, Performance Factors).
 
In all cases, the C&LD Committee retains the discretion to include or exclude certain of the Performance Categories for purposes of determining the PSP Award.  The C&LD Committee may reduce or eliminate any payment if it determines that such payout is inconsistent with long-term shareholders interests.
 
V.           
PSU VESTING AND PAYMENT
 
After the Performance Period is complete, the C&LD Committee will establish the Payout Factors for each of the Performance Categories based on the Companys results versus the pre-established Performance Goals.  The number of PSUs that vest will be determined by multiplying the average of the Performance Factors by the number of PSUs in the Initial PSU Grant target, rounding up to the nearest whole number.  The number of PSUs that vest may be equal to, above or below the Initial PSU Grant target depending on the Companys performance in the Performance Categories, but in no event more than the Initial PSU Grant maximum.  Vested PSUs are converted into shares of Common Stock delivered to the applicable Participant within 60 days following the end of the Performance Period, or such later date as may be elected by the Participant in accordance with Section 409A.
 
           
VI.
SEPARATION FROM THE COMPANY
(Defined terms shall have the meaning designated in the 2009 Plan or related award documents)
 
 
 
VII.           
CHANGE IN CONTROL
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if there is a Change in Control, all outstanding PSP Awards will vest at 100% of the Initial PSU Grant target (or 100% of the PSP Target if the Change in Control occurs prior to the Initial PSU Grant) and be shall paid in shares of Common Stock at the time of such Change in Control to the extent permitted by Section 409A (and otherwise according to the terms and conditions set forth herein).  Change in Control shall have the same meaning as defined in the 2009 Plan or any successor stock plan approved in accordance with applicable listing standards.
 
VIII.           
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 
It shall be understood that the PSP does not give to any officer or employee any contract rights, express or implied, against any Company for any PSP Award, or for compensation in addition to the salary paid to him or her, or any right to question the action of the Board of Directors or the C&LD Committee.
 
Each PSP Award made to an individual at Band 7 and above is subject to the Senior Executive Recoupment Policy adopted by the C&LD Committee in December 2006.
 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that the PSP comply with the provisions of Section 409A.  The PSP will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent.  Neither a Participant nor any of a Participants creditors or beneficiaries will have the right to subject any deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) payable under the PSP to any anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment or garnishment.  Except as permitted under Section 409A, any deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) payable to a Participant under the PSP may not be reduced by, or offset against, any amount owing by a Participant to the Company.
 
This program document may be amended at any time by the C&LD Committee.
 
August 10, 2010


