FILE:PG/PG-8K-20101027080335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
 
 
    BY:   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH
   
 
 E. J. Wunsch
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
 Assistant Secretary
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
 October 27, 2010
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
 
 
 
 
99.
   
News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated October 27, 2010.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CINCINNATI, Oct. 27, 2010 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) reported first quarter diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.02 per share, an increase of five percent and above the Companys guidance range of $0.97 to $1.01.   Net sales increased two percent to $20.1 billion behind broad-based volume growth.  Organic sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange, grew four percent.  The Company continued to deliver broad-based volume and market share growth, with all regions growing.
Our first quarter was a good start to the fiscal year.  We maintained our top-line momentum and delivered profitable market share growth, said Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald.  We are confident that our Purpose-inspired growth strategy  to touch and improve the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world, more completely will continue to drive growth and create value for shareholders.  While the macroeconomic environment remains challenging, the solid first quarter results demonstrate that our strategy is working.
Executive Summary
 
 
July - September Quarter Discussion
Net sales increased two percent to $20.1 billion in the July - September quarter.  Organic sales grew four percent.  Volume increased eight percent, with growth in all major geographic regions and five of six business segments.  Unit volume was up double digits in developing regions and mid-single digits in developed regions.  Key initiatives for the quarter included the North American launches of Tide with Acti-Lift, Crest Pro-Health Clinical, Gain dishwashing liquid, Febreze Set n Refresh and Gucci Guilty; brand restages of Pantene in Asia and Downy in North America; an upgrade to Charmin and expansions of Pampers Dry Max to additional countries in Western Europe and Central & Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa (CEEMEA).  Pric ing reduced net sales by one percent, while geographic and product mix reduced net sales by two percent.  Unfavorable foreign exchange negatively impacted net sales growth by three percent.  Reflecting continued strong innovation activity, global market share increased in all regions.
Operating margin declined 10 basis points for the first fiscal quarter as lower gross margin was largely offset by lower selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) as a percentage of net sales.  Gross margin contracted 70 basis points due mainly to higher commodity costs.  SG&A as a percentage of net sales declined 60 basis points behind improved productivity, lower foreign currency exchange costs related to the Companys operations in Venezuela and reduced overhead spending, partially offset by higher marketing investments to support product initiatives and build brand equity.
Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations and Core EPS were $1.02, an increase of five percent for each measure.  Diluted net earnings per share declined four percent due to the divestiture of the global pharmaceuticals business completed in October 2009.  Net earnings from continuing operations increased two percent to $3.1 billion.
Operating cash flow was $2.5 billion for the quarter, while free cash flow, which is operating cash flow less capital spending, was $1.9 billion.  Free cash flow productivity, which is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings, was 63 percent.  The Company repurchased $3.0 billion of shares during the quarter and returned another $1.4 billion of cash to shareholders as dividends.
Business Segment Discussion
Beauty GBU
Health & Well-Being GBU
Household Care GBU
Fiscal Year 2011 Guidance
Net sales are expected to increase three to five percent in fiscal 2011.  Organic sales are estimated to grow four to six percent.  Unfavorable foreign exchange is expected to reduce net sales growth by approximately one to two percent.  The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures is expected to be a neutral to one percent addition to net sales.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations and Core EPS are expected to be in the range of $3.91 to $4.01, up 11 to 14 percent on a continuing operations basis and up seven to nine percent on a core basis.
October - December 2010 Quarter Guidance
For the October - December quarter, net sales growth is estimated to be two to four percent.  Organic sales are expected to grow three to five percent, reflecting continued, strong volume momentum, partially offset by mix and pricing.  Unfavorable foreign exchange is expected to reduce net sales growth by about two percent.  Acquisition and divestiture activity is expected to add one percent to net sales growth for the quarter.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations and Core EPS are expected to be in the range of $1.05 to $1.11, up four to 10 percent on a continuing operations basis and down five to up one percent versus prior year Core EPS of $1.10.  The outlook for lower Core EPS is due mainly to higher year-on-year commodity costs and higher marketing spending as a percentage of sales.
Forward-Looking Statements
All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this release or presentation, are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on financial data, market assumptions and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could differ significantly from our expectations. In addition to the risks and uncertainties noted in this release or presentation, there are certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipa ted by some of the statements made. These include: (1) the ability to achieve business plans, including growing existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity and an increasingly volatile economic environment, especially with respect to the product categories and geographical markets (including developing markets) in which the Company has chosen to focus; (2) the ability to successfully manage ongoing acquisition and divestiture activities to achieve the cost and growth synergies in accordance with the stated goals of these transactions without impacting the delivery of base business objectives; (3) the ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational changes designed to support our growth strategies, while successfully identifying, developing and retaining key employees, especially in key growth markets where the depth of skilled employees is limited; (4) the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (5) the ability to maintain key manufacturing and su pply sources (including sole supplier and plant manufacturing sources); (6) the ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal requirements and matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property, competition law matters, and tax policy), and to resolve pending matters within current estimates; (7) the ability to successfully implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans in manufacturing and overhead areas, including the Company's outsourcing projects; (8) the ability to successfully manage currency (including currency issues in certain countries, such as Venezuela, China and India), debt, interest rate and commodity cost exposures and significant credit or liquidity issues; (9) the ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in the Company's significant geographical markets, as well as any political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions due to a global or regional credit crisis or terrorist and other hostile act ivities; (10) the ability to successfully manage competitive factors, including prices, promotional incentives and trade terms for products; (11) the ability to obtain patents and respond to technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to competitors; (12) the ability to successfully manage increases in the prices of raw materials used to make the Company's products; (13) the ability to stay close to consumers in an era of increased media fragmentation; (14) the ability to stay on the leading edge of innovation and maintain a positive reputation on our brands; and (15) our ability to rely on and maintain key information technology systems, including the transition of our ordering, shipping and billing systems in North America and Western Europe to a new system.  For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected herein, please refer to our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports.
About Procter & Gamble
Four billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 127,000 employees working in about 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570
:
P&G Investor Relations Contact
John Chevalier, 513.983.9974
 
 
 
 
The Procter & Gamble Company
 
Exhibit 1: Non-GAAP Measures
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings release and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.
Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons.  We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
Organic Sales Growth:
The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales is as follows:
*Acquisition/Divestiture Impact includes rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales.
             This is a measure of the Companys diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges for pending European legal matters and a charge related to a tax provision for retiree healthcare subsidy payments in the recently enacted U.S. healthcare reform legislation.  We do not view these items to be part of our sustainable results.  We believe the Core EPS measure provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides a more comparable measure of year-on-year earnings per share growth.  The table below provides a reconciliation of reported diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations to Co re EPS:
Core EPS:
Note  All reconciling items are presented net of tax.  Tax effects are calculated consistent with the nature of the underlying transaction.  The entire amount of the charge for taxation of retiree healthcare subsidy is tax expense.  There is no tax impact on EPS due to the charges for pending European legal matters.
  Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.  We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment.  Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.
Free Cash Flow:
Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.  The Companys long-term target is to generate free cash at or above 90 percent of net earnings.  Free cash flow productivity is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management.  We believe this provides a better perspective of our underlying liquidity trends.  The reconciliation of free cash flow productivity is provided below (amounts in millions):
Free Cash Flow Productivity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


