FILE:PG/PG-8K-20100803081114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
 BY:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH
   
 
   
   
E. J. Wunsch
    
    
    
    
    
   
Assistant Secretary
August 3, 2010
 
 
 
99.
   
News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated August 3, 2010.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CINCINNATI, Aug. 3, 2010 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) net sales grew five percent to $18.9 billion for the fourth quarter and three percent to $78.9 billion for fiscal 2010.  Organic sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange, grew four percent for the quarter and three percent for the fiscal year.  Unit volume accelerated throughout the fiscal year and was up eight percent in the fourth quarter driven by growth in all business segments, regions, and key countries. The company grew global market share for the quarter, with all regions holding or growing share.
Diluted net earnings per share were $0.71 for the fourth quarter and $4.11 for the fiscal year, near the top end of the Companys guidance range of $4.06 to $4.12.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased four percent in fiscal 2010 to $3.53.  Core EPS, which represents diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items, was up six percent to $3.67 for the fiscal year driven by sales growth and operating margin expansion.  The Company generated record adjusted free cash flow of $14 billion in fiscal 2010.
We are executing on all three dimensions of our growth strategy  touching and improving more consumers lives, in more parts of the world, more completely, said Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald.  Our results in fiscal 2010 were ahead of our original expectations, and we are pleased with the trend of the business.  The investments weve made in innovation, marketing support and consumer value have delivered accelerating unit volume and profitable market share growth throughout the year, which are clear indications that our strategy is working.
-
Executive Summary
April - June Quarter Discussion
Volume growth accelerated to eight percent, the fastest pace of organic growth in 22 quarters.  Growth was broad-based, with mid-single-digit or higher growth in all reportable segments and regions, led by double-digit growth in developing regions.  Net sales for the fourth fiscal quarter increased five percent to $18.9 billion driven by new product innovation, increased marketing spending and incremental merchandising support.  Global market share growth was positive with all regions flat or growing share for the first time in 11 quarters.  Key initiatives for the quarter include the launches of Gillette Fusion ProGlide, Olay Regenerist Micro-Sculpting Serum and Gucci by Gucci Pour Homme Sport, major brand restage of Pantene in North America, an u pgrade to Bounty and expansions of Pampers Dry Max to Western Europe and Fairy dish care into Turkey.  Favorable foreign exchange also contributed to net sales growth, adding one percent.  Pricing lowered net sales by one percent.  Mix reduced net sales by three percent due mainly to negative geographic mix impacts behind disproportionate growth in developing markets, which have lower than company average selling prices.  Organic sales grew four percent for the quarter.
Operating margin declined 310 basis points for the quarter behind higher selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by higher gross margin.  SG&A as a percentage of net sales increased 360 basis points mainly behind increased marketing investments to support key initiative launches. Gross margin expanded 50 basis points driven by manufacturing cost savings, partially offset by unfavorable product mix and higher commodity costs.
Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations and Core EPS were $0.71, representing declines of five and nine percent, respectively.  Net earnings from continuing operations were down six percent to $2.2 billion for the quarter as increased sales and a lower tax rate were more than offset by lower operating margin.  The tax rate on continuing operations decreased mainly due to favorable impacts of a foreign audit resolution and other tax items and tax benefits related to exercising the call option on an outstanding bond.
Fiscal Year Discussion
Net sales increased three percent to $78.9 billion for fiscal 2010 behind accelerating volume growth of four percent.  All geographic regions contributed to volume growth, led by high-single-digits growth in the Asia and Central & Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa (CEEMEA) regions.  Unit volume increased in five of six reportable segments behind key initiative launches: Head & Shoulders Scalp Care, restages of Pantene, Pantene Protect & Care, Olay Regenerist Eye Roller, Olay Men Solutions, Gillette Fusion ProGlide, Gillette ProSeries, Crest 3D White, Oral-B Pro Health toothpaste, Always Simply Fits, Tampax Pearl Adaptive Protection, Tide Stain Release, Ariel with Actilift, Bounce Dryer Bar, Tide Naturals, Sarasa, Febreze Home Collections, Bounty and Charmin Upgrades, Pampers Dry Max and Pampers Simply D ry.  Price increases of one percent were offset by negative geographic and product mix impacts.  Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net sales by one percent.  Organic sales grew three percent.
Operating margin increased 30 basis points for the year due to gross margin expansion, mostly offset by higher SG&A as a percentage of net sales.  Gross margin expanded 250 basis points to 52.0 percent of net sales behind manufacturing cost savings, commodity and energy cost reductions and price increases.  SG&A increased 220 basis points to 31.7 percent of net sales mainly due to increased marketing spending.  Advertising spending, which is the majority of total marketing expense, increased more than $1 billion versus the prior fiscal year to $8.6 billion, or 10.9 percent of net sales.
Net earnings from continuing operations increased two percent driven by sales growth and operating margin expansion, partially offset by a higher tax rate.  The tax rate on continuing operations increased mainly due to significant tax benefits in the base period related to adjustments to tax reserves.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased four percent to $3.53 in fiscal 2010 driven by sales growth, operating margin expansion and share repurchases, partially offset by a higher tax rate.  Core EPS grew six percent for the fiscal year.
Diluted net earnings per share declined four percent to $4.11 for the fiscal year due to the loss of contribution from discontinued operations and lower current year gains on the sale of discontinued operations, partially offset by higher earnings from continuing operations.  Diluted net earnings per share from discontinued operations were $0.87 in fiscal year 2009 and $0.58 in fiscal year 2010.
Operating cash flow increased eight percent in fiscal 2010 to $16.1 billion.  Adjusted free cash flow was $14.0 billion, an all time record and 125 percent of net earnings excluding the impacts of the global pharmaceuticals divestitures.  Capital expenditures were 3.9 percent of net sales.  The Company repurchased $6.0 billion of P&G stock in fiscal 2010 and increased its quarterly dividend by 9.5 percent in April.
Fiscal Year Business Segment Discussion
Beauty GBU
Health & Well-Being GBU
Household Care GBU
Fiscal Year 2011 Guidance
Net sales are expected to increase two to four percent in fiscal 2011.  Organic sales are estimated to grow four to six percent.  Unfavorable foreign exchange is expected to reduce net sales growth by approximately three percent.  The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures is estimated to contribute one percent to net sales growth.  Diluted net earnings from continuing operations and Core EPS are expected to be in the range of $3.91 to $4.01, up 11 to 14 percent on a continuing operations basis and up seven to nine percent on a core basis.
July - September 2010 Quarter Guidance
For the July - September quarter, net sales growth is estimated to be one to three percent.  Organic sales are expected to grow three to five percent, reflecting continued, strong volume momentum, partially offset by mix and pricing.  Unfavorable foreign exchange is expected to reduce net sales growth by approximately three percent.  Acquisition and divestiture activity is expected to contribute one percent to net sales for the quarter.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operating and Core EPS are expected to be in the range of $0.97 to $1.01, in line to up four percent versus prior year Core EPS of $0.97, reflecting the companys plans to continue strong investment levels in innovation and marketing support.
Forward-Looking Statements
All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this release or presentation, are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on financial data, market assumptions and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could differ significantly from our expectations. In addition to the risks and uncertainties noted in this release or presentation, there are certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipa ted by some of the statements made. These include: (1) the ability to achieve business plans, including growing existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity and an increasingly volatile economic environment, especially with respect to the product categories and geographical markets (including developing markets) in which the Company has chosen to focus; (2) the ability to successfully manage ongoing acquisition and divestiture activities to achieve the cost and growth synergies in accordance with the stated goals of these transactions without impacting the delivery of base business objectives; (3) the ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational changes designed to support our growth strategies, while successfully identifying, developing and retaining key employees, especially in key growth markets where the depth of skilled employees is limited; (4) the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (5) the ability to maintain key manufacturing and su pply sources (including sole supplier and plant manufacturing sources); (6) the ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal requirements and matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property, competition law matters, and tax policy), and to resolve pending matters within current estimates; (7) the ability to successfully implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans in manufacturing and overhead areas, including the Company's outsourcing projects; (8) the ability to successfully manage currency (including currency issues in certain countries, such as Venezuela, China and India), debt, interest rate and commodity cost exposures and significant credit or liquidity issues; (9) the ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in the Company's significant geographical markets, as well as any political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions due to a global or regional credit crisis or terrorist and other hostile act ivities; (10) the ability to successfully manage competitive factors, including prices, promotional incentives and trade terms for products; (11) the ability to obtain patents and respond to technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to competitors; (12) the ability to successfully manage increases in the prices of raw materials used to make the Company's products; (13) the ability to stay close to consumers in an era of increased media fragmentation; (14) the ability to stay on the leading edge of innovation and maintain a positive reputation on our brands; and (15) our ability to rely on and maintain key information technology systems, including the transition of our ordering, shipping and billing systems in North America and Western Europe to a new system.  For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected herein, please refer to our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports.
About Procter & Gamble
Four billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 127,000 employees working in about 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570
:
P&G Investor Relations Contact
John Chevalier, 513.983.9974
 
 
 
The Procter & Gamble Company
 
Exhibit 1: Non-GAAP Measures
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings release and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.
Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons.  We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
Organic Sales Growth:
The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales is as follows:
*Acquisition/Divestiture Impact includes rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales.
                    This is a measure of the Companys diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges for pending European legal matters, a charge related to a tax provision for retiree healthcare subsidy payments in the recently enacted U.S. healthcare reform legislation and incremental Corporate restructuring charges incurred in fiscal 2009 versus 2008 to offset the dilutive impact of the Folgers divestiture.  We do not view these items to be part of our sustainable results.  We believe the Core EPS measure provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides a more comparable meas ure of year-on-year earnings per share growth.  The table below provides a reconciliation of reported diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations to Core EPS:
Core EPS:
Note  All reconciling items are presented net of tax.  Tax effects are calculated consistent with the nature of the underlying transaction.  The tax impacts on the incremental Folgers-related restructuring charges are ($0.02) for AMJ 2009 and ($0.02) for FY 2009.  The entire amount of the charge for taxation of retiree healthcare subsidy is tax expense.  There is no tax impact on EPS due to the charges for pending European legal matters.
  Adjusted free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending and the after-tax impacts of the global pharmaceuticals divestitures.  We exclude the after-tax impacts of the global pharmaceuticals divestitures from adjusted free cash flow because we do not view these impacts to be part of our underlying business results.  We view adjusted free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment.  Adjusted free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow:
Adjusted free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings excluding the gains on the divestiture of the global pharmaceuticals business, including Actonel in Japan.  Given the size of these gains and our view that they are not part of our sustainable business, we have excluded the gains from our calculation.  The Companys long-term target is to generate free cash at or above 90 percent of net earnings.  Adjusted free cash flow productivity is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management.  We believe this provides a better perspective of our underlying liquidity trends.  The reconciliation of adjusted free cash flow productivity i s provided below (amounts in millions):
Adjusted Free Cash Flow Productivity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


