FILE:PG/PG-8K-20100420161433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM 5.02(b)    DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS
 
On April 19, 2010, Charles R. Lee and Ralph Snyderman retired from The Procter & Gamble Company (the "Company") Board of Directors (the "Board") in accordance with the Board's customary retirement age for directors as set forth in the Board's Corporate Governance Guidelines.  As a result of these retirements, the Board has designated Patricia A. Woertz as the new Chair of the Audit Committee and Scott D. Cook as the new Chair of the Innovation & Technology Committee.
 
The Company is filing this 8-K pursuant to Item 5.02(b), "Departure of Directors."
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
BY:  
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH
   
   
   
   
 E. J. Wunsch
 Assistant Secretary
 April 20, 2010
 
 
99. News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated April 20, 2010.
   
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CINCINNATI, April 20, 2010  The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) announced today that Charles R. Lee and Ralph Snyderman M.D, in accordance with the company's customary retirement age for directors, retired from the board effective at the conclusion of the April 19, 2010 meeting of P&G's Board of Directors. Mr. Lee has been a Director since 1994 and Dr. Synderman has been a Director since 1995.  They both celebrated their 70 birthdays recently.
th
Chuck and Ralph have served P&Gs board with distinction for more than 15 years.  Their insights, counsel and leadership have been invaluable, said Bob McDonald, P&Gs chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer.  We will miss them both but wish them continued success.
Mr. Lee was Chair of P&Gs Audit Committee as well as a member of the Compensation & Leadership Development Committee.   He is the retired Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer of Verizon Communications Inc.  He is also a Director of The DIRECTV Group, Marathon Oil Corporation, United Technologies Corporation and U.S. Steel Corporation.
Dr. Snyderman was Chair of P&Gs Innovation & Technology Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.  He is Chancellor Emeritus, James B. Duke Professor of Medicine at Duke University. He is also a Director of Targacept Inc. and a Venture Partner of New Enterprise Associates.
Current Director, Patricia A. Woertz, has been designated Chair of P&Gs Audit Committee while Chair of P&G's Innovation & Technology Committee will be taken by current Director, Scott D. Cook.
About Procter & Gamble
Four billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 135,000 employees working in about 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465
P&G Media Contact:  


