FILE:PG/PG-8K-20110504100901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
On May 4, 2011, The Procter & Gamble Company (the Company) announced that Edward D. Shirley will leave his current position as Vice Chairman- Beauty & Grooming effective July 1, 2011, in anticipation of retiring from the Company on January 1, 2012.
 
The Company is filing this 8-K pursuant to Item 5.02(b), "Departure of Certain Officers."
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
BY:  
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH
   
   
   
   
 E. J. Wunsch
 Assistant Secretary
 May 4, 2011
 
99. News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated May 4, 2011.
   

 
 
 
 
CINCINNATI, May 4, 2011 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) today announced the following organizational changes:
 
 
 
Mr. Shirleys career began with The Gillette Company where he held positions of growing importance culminating in being appointed President of International Commercial Operations prior to the acquisition of the Gillette business by P&G in 2005.   He was appointed Group President of P&Gs North American business following the acquisition and promoted to the role of Vice Chairman, Beauty and Grooming in 2008.
 
Ed has had an outstanding career, said P&G Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Robert A. McDonald.  He was one of the most respected leaders at Gillette and he played a pivotal role in ensuring the success of the Gillette integration into P&G.  He continued that inspirational leadership of our North American operations and then as Vice Chairman provided the strategic vision to energize the growth of our Beauty and Grooming global businesses.
 
As part of this management change, P&G will move its two Global Business Units (GBUs) - Beauty & Grooming and Household Care - under the leadership of Dimitri Panayotopoulos.
 
Dimitri is another outstanding leader whose vision will continue to help drive our growth strategy. This new structure is the right one for the business at this point in time.  This evolution of our structure is normal business practice for us and may evolve further in the future as our strategy and business conditions create new needs and opportunities, added Mr. McDonald.
 
 
About Procter & Gamble
Four billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 127,000 employees working in about 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
 
:
P&G Media Contact
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465


