FILE:PG/PG-8K-20110805080034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
 BY:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
/s/ SUSAN S. WHALEY
   
 
    
Susan S. Whaley
Assistant Secretary
August 5, 2011
 
 
 
99.
   
News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated August 5, 2011.

 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CINCINNATI, Aug. 5, 2011 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) net sales grew 10 percent to $20.9 billion for the fourth quarter and five percent to $82.6 billion for fiscal 2011.  Organic sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange, grew five percent for the quarter and four percent for the fiscal year.  Unit volume was up three percent in the fourth quarter and six percent for the fiscal year, where volume grew in all business segments, all geographic regions, and in 15 of 17 key countries.
Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.84, an increase of 18 percent for the fourth quarter driven by sales growth and operating margin expansion; and $3.93, an increase of 11 percent for the fiscal year driven by sales growth and a lower effective tax rate.
We are pleased with the strong top- and bottom-line performance in the quarter, said Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald.  We delivered organic sales growth of five percent and earnings per share growth of 18 percent in a challenging environment, driven by our ongoing commitment to make a difference in the everyday lives of the worlds consumers.
Executive Summary
April - June Quarter Discussion
Net sales increased 10 percent to $20.9 billion. Organic sales grew five percent on three percent unit volume growth.  Volume growth was broad-based, with organic growth in five of six reportable segments, led by high single-digit growth in Baby Care & Family Care.  All geographic regions maintained or grew volume.  Favorable foreign exchange contributed to net sales growth, adding five percent.  Pricing increased net sales by three percent while unfavorable product and geographic mix reduced net sales by one percent.
Operating margin increased 10 basis points for the quarter behind lower selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by a lower gross margin.  SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased 130 basis points due to high base period advertising expenses, productivity savings and current year sales leverage.  Gross margin decreased by 120 basis points driven by higher commodity costs and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by manufacturing cost savings and pricing.
Diluted net earnings per share and Core EPS were $0.84, an increase of 18 percent.  Net earnings from continuing operations increased by 15 percent to $2.5 billion for the quarter behind increased sales, a 10-basis-point improvement in operating margin, and gains on minor brand divestitures, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate.  The tax rate on continuing operations was 21.7 percent, comparing to a base period rate of 16.5 percent which included benefits from several foreign tax audit resolutions and other discrete items.
Fiscal Year Discussion
Net sales increased five percent to $82.6 billion for fiscal 2011 behind volume growth of six percent.  All geographic regions contributed to volume growth, led by double-digit growth in Asia.  Unit volume increased in all reportable segments behind investments in innovation and market expansions, such as Olay and Head & Shoulders in Brazil, Gillette Guard in India, Downy fabric enhancers in Indonesia, Fusion ProGlide expansion in Western Europe, and Gain hand dishwashing liquid in the U.S.  Unfavorable geographic and product mix reduced sales growth by two percent.  Organic sales grew four percent.
Operating margin decreased 110 basis points for the year due to gross margin contraction, partially offset by lower SG&A as a percentage of net sales.  Gross margin contracted 140 basis points to 50.6 percent of net sales due to higher commodity costs and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by manufacturing cost savings.  SG& decreased 30 basis points to 31.4 percent of net sales due to overhead sales leverage and productivity savings, partially offset by an increase in marketing spending.  Advertising spending, which is the majority of total marketing expense, increased more than $700 million versus the prior fiscal year to $9.3 billion, or 11.3 percent of net sales.
A
Net earnings from continuing operations increased eight percent driven by sales growth and a lower tax rate, partially offset by operating margin contraction.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 11 percent to $3.93 in fiscal 2011 driven by sales growth, a lower tax rate and share repurchases, partially offset by a lower gross margin.  Core EPS grew eight percent for the fiscal year.
Operating cash flow in fiscal 2011 was $13.2 billion, while adjusted free cash flow was $9.9 billion.  Capital expenditures were 4 percent of net sales.  The Company repurchased $7 billion of P&G stock in fiscal 2011 and increased its quarterly dividend by nine percent in April, paying $5.8 billion in dividends to shareholders in fiscal 2011.
April - June Quarter Business Segment Discussion
Fiscal Year 2012 Guidance
Net sales are expected to increase five to nine percent in fiscal 2012.  Organic sales are estimated to grow three to six percent.  Favorable foreign exchange is expected to positively impact net sales growth by two to three percent.  Pricing is expected to add three to four percent to sales while unfavorable product and geographic mix is expected to reduce sales by one to two percent.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations and Core EPS are expected to be in the range of $4.17 to $4.33, up six to 10 percent.
July - September 2011 Quarter Guidance
For the July - September quarter, net sales growth is estimated to be six to nine percent.  Organic sales are expected to grow two to four percent, reflecting modest volume growth with favorable pricing and mix.  Favorable foreign exchange is expected to add four to five percent to net sales growth.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations and Core EPS are expected to be in the range of $1.00 to $1.04, a decrease of two percent to an increase of two percent versus prior year, reflecting commodity cost increases, which will not yet be fully offset by pricing.
Forward-Looking Statements
All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this release or presentation, are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on financial data, market assumptions and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could differ significantly from our expectations. In addition to the risks and uncertainties noted in this release or presentation, there are certain factors that could cause actual results for any quarter or annual period to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These include: (1) the ability to achieve business plans, including growing existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity and an increasing volatile economic environment, especially with respect to the product categories and geographical markets (including developing markets) in which the Company has chosen to focus; (2) the ability to successfully manage ongoing acquisition and divestiture activities to achieve the cost and growth synergies in accordance with the stated goals of these transactions without impacting the delivery of base business objectives; (3) the ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational changes designed to support our growth strategies, while successfully identifying, developing and retaining key employees, especially in key growth markets where the depth of skilled employees is limited; (4) the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (5) the ability to maintain key manufacturing and supply sources (including sole supplier and plant manufacturing sources); (6) the ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal requirements and matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property, and tax policy), and to resolve pending matters within current estimates; (7) the ability to resolve the pending competition law inquiries in Europe within current estimates; (8) the ability to successfully implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans in manufacturing and overhead areas, including the Company's outsourcing projects; (9) the ability to successfully manage currency (including currency issues in certain countries, such as Venezuela, China and India), debt, interest rate and commodity cost exposures and significant credit or liquidity issues; (10) the ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in the Company's significant geographical markets, due  to terrorist and other hostile activities or natural disasters (including the civil unrest in the Middle East and the Japan earthquake and tsunami) and/or disruptions to credit markets resulting from a global, regional or national credit crisis; (11) the ability to successfully manage competitive factors, including prices, promotional incentives and trade terms for products; (12) the ability to obtain patents and respond to technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to competitors; (13) the ability to successfully manage increases in the prices of raw materials used to make the Company's products; (14) the ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs; (15) the ability to stay on the leading edge of innovation, maintain a positive reputation on our brands and ensure trademark protection; and (16) the ability to rely on and maintain key information technology systems (including Company and third-party systems). For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected herein, please refer to our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports.
About Procter & Gamble
P&G serves approximately 4.4 billion people around the world with its brands. The Company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Fairy, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun, Fusion, Ace, Febreze, and Ambi Pur. The P&G community includes operations in about 80 countries worldwide. Please visit for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
http://www.pg.com
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570
:
P&G Investor Relations Contact
John Chevalier, 513.983.9974
 
 
 
The Procter & Gamble Company
 
Exhibit 1: Non-GAAP Measures
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings release and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.
Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons.  We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
Organic Sales Growth:
The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales is as follows:
Fiscal Year 2011
*Acquisition/Divestiture Impact includes rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales.
                        This is a measure of the Companys diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding a charge related to a tax provision for retiree healthcare subsidy payments in the U.S. healthcare reform legislation in the prior year period, charges related to pending European legal matters for current and prior years, and a significant settlement from U.S. tax litigation related to the valuation of technology donations in prior years.  We do not view these items to be part of our sustainable results.  We believe the Core EPS measure provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides a more comparable measure of year-on-year earnings per share growth.  Core EPS is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The table below provides a reconciliation of diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations to Core EPS:
Core EPS:
Note  All reconciling items are presented net of tax.  Tax effects are calculated consistent with the nature of the underlying transaction.  The charge for taxation of retiree healthcare subsidy and significant settlement from U.S. tax litigation are tax expense.
  Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.  We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment.  Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The reconciliation of free cash flow is provided below (amounts in millions):
Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


