FILE:PG/PG-8K-20110201102623.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
On February 1, 2011, The Procter & Gamble Company (the Company) announced that Robert A. Steele will leave his current position as Vice Chairman-Global Health and Well-Being effective February 1, 2011, in anticipation of retiring from the Company on September 1, 2011.
 
The Company is filing this 8-K pursuant to Item 5.02(b), "Departure of Certain Officers."
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
BY:  
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH
   
   
   
   
 E. J. Wunsch
 Assistant Secretary
 February 1, 2011
 
99. News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated February 1, 2011.
   

 
CINCINNATI, Feb. 1, 2011 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) announced today that Robert A. Steele, Vice Chairman  Global Health and Well-Being, responsible for Oral Care, Feminine Care, Personal Health Care, Pet Care and Snacks, will retire from P&G, effective September 1, 2011, after 35 years of service. Effective February 1, Mr. Steele will serve as Vice Chairman  Health Care Strategy, reporting to P&G Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Robert A. McDonald.
 
His career has included introducing several successful new P&G brands, including Swiffer, designing and leading P&Gs North American Market Development Organization, leading P&Gs Family Care, Coffee, Pet Care and Snacks businesses, and leading the strategy for P&Gs consumer health care business, including the divestiture of pharmaceuticals.
 
Rob has been and remains an outstanding leader whose impact on P&G stretches across the Company and will endure for decades to come, said P&G Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Robert A. McDonald.  He led P&Gs North America business from 2000 to 2006, delivering six consecutive years of value- share growth, and he played a pivotal role in the successful integration of Gillettes North America Commercial Operations.  More recently, he has revitalized our Global Health and Well-Being strategy and portfolio, focusing on businesses where P&G can win long term.
 
As part of this management change, P&G will consolidate its current three Global Business Units (GBUs) into two:  Beauty & Grooming and Household Care.  The Oral Care and Feminine Care businesses will become part of P&Gs Beauty and Grooming GBU.  The Personal Health Care, Pet Care and Snacks businesses will become part of P&Gs Household Care GBU. These moves will help ensure each of these businesses continues to get the full investment required for growth globally while benefitting from synergies with P&Gs larger businesses.
 
Effective February 1, 2011, Charlie E. Pierce, Group President  Global Oral Care and Steve Bishop, Group President  Global Feminine Care will report to Ed Shirley.  Tom Finn, President  Global Health Care and Dan Rajczak, Senior Vice President  Global Snacks and Pet Care will report to Dimitri Panayotopoulos.
 
About Procter & Gamble
Four billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 127,000 employees working in about 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
 
P&G Media Contacts:
Paul Fox, Corporate Media Relations, 513-884-2592
 
 


