FILE:PG/PG-8K-20110428080116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
 BY:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
/s/ E. J. WUNSCH
   
 
   
   
E. J. Wunsch
    
    
    
    
    
   
Assistant Secretary
April 28, 2011
 
 
 
99.
   
News Release by The Procter & Gamble Company dated April 28, 2011.

 
 
 
CINCINNATI, Apr. 28, 2011 - The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG) announced third quarter diluted net earnings from continuing operations of $0.96 per share, an increase of 16 percent.  Core EPS was up eight percent, within the Companys guidance range.
 
The Company continued to deliver broad-based volume and market share growth.  Volume was up five percent behind growth in all six business segments, 16 of 17 top countries, and 20 of 24 billion-dollar brands.  Market share was up in all geographic regions and flat or higher in 14 of the top 17 countries and for 18 of 24 billion-dollar brands.  Businesses representing about two-thirds of net sales maintained or grew market share.
 
Net sales increased five percent to $20.2 billion driven by five percent volume growth, as well as favorable pricing and foreign exchange, partially offset by geographic and product mix.  Organic sales, which exclude the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures, and foreign exchange, grew four percent.
 
 The growth fundamentals of our business are strong, said Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald.  We delivered broad-based volume, sales, and market share growth, and grew EPS in a very difficult operating environment.  We increased our dividend for the 55 consecutive year, by 9 percent.  We continue to advance our Purpose-inspired growth strategy of improving the lives of more consumers, in more parts of the world, more completely.
th
 
Executive Summary
 
January - March Quarter Discussion
 
Net sales increased five percent to $20.2 billion on five percent unit volume growth.  Organic sales were up four percent.  Volume growth was broad based, with growth in all major geographic regions, 16 of 17 top countries, all six business segments and 20 of 24 billion-dollar brands.  Volume increased high single digits in developing regions and low single digits in developed regions.  Positive pricing and favorable foreign exchange each contributed one percentage point to net sales growth.  Negative product and geographic mix reduced net sales growth by two percentage points.
 
Market share continued to grow behind the Companys innovation and expansion plans.  Share was up in all geographic regions and flat or higher in 14 of 17 top countries, 5 of 6 reporting segments and 18 of 24 billion-dollar brands.  Global market share is up versus the prior three, six and 12 month periods.
 
Operating margin contracted 210 basis points primarily driven by lower gross margin.  Gross margin declined 140 basis points due to higher commodity costs and unfavorable geographic and product mix, which more than offset manufacturing cost savings, pricing and volume scale leverage.  Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) as a percentage of net sales increased 70 basis points behind foreign currency impacts and investments to support the Companys innovation and market expansion plans, partially offset by a reduction in overhead spending as a percentage of sales.
 
Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.96, an increase of 16 percent driven by a reduction in the current year effective tax rate, base period income tax charges related to U.S. healthcare legislation, and a reduction in shares outstanding.  Core EPS was $0.96, an increase of eight percent.
 
Operating cash flow was $4.1 billion for the quarter, while free cash flow, which is operating cash flow less capital spending, was $3.2 billion and 113 percent of net earnings.  The Company repurchased $1.0 billion of shares during the quarter and returned another $1.4 billion of cash to shareholders as dividends.
 
Earlier this month P&G announced a nine percent increase to its quarterly dividend.  This is the 121st consecutive year since P&G was incorporated in which the Company has paid a dividend; and the 55th consecutive year that the dividend has increased.
 
Business Segment Discussion
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2011 Guidance
 
Net sales are expected to increase four to five percent in fiscal 2011.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to be in the range of $3.89 to $3.94, and guidance for Core EPS is $3.91 to $3.96, an increase of seven to eight percent.
 
April - June 2011 Quarter Guidance
 
For the April - June quarter, net sales growth is estimated to be eight to 10 percent.  Organic sales are expected to grow four to six percent, reflecting solid volume growth and improving pricing trends.  Foreign exchange is expected to add about four percent to net sales growth.  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations and Core EPS are expected to be in the range of $0.80 to $0.85, an increase of 13 to 20 percent on a core basis and a continuing operations basis.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this release or presentation, are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on financial data, market assumptions and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could differ significantly from our expectations. In addition to the risks and uncertainties noted in this release or presentation, there are certain factors that could cause actual results for any quarter or annual period to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These include: (1) the ability to achieve business plans, including growing existing sales and volume profitably despite high levels of competitive activity and an increasing volatile economic environment, especially with respect to the product categories and geographical markets (including developing markets) in which the Company has chosen to focus; (2) the ability to successfully manage ongoing acquisition and divestiture activities to achieve the cost and growth synergies in accordance with the stated goals of these transactions without impacting the delivery of base business objectives; (3) the ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational changes designed to support our growth strategies, while successfully identifying, developing and retaining key employees, especially in key growth markets where the depth of skilled employees is limited; (4) the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (5) the ability to maintain key manufacturing and supply sources (including sole supplier and plant manufacturing sources); (6) the ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal requirements and matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property, and tax policy), and to resolve pending matters within current estimates; (7) the ability to resolve the pending competition law inquiries in Europe within current estimates; (8) the ability to successfully implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans in manufacturing and overhead areas, including the Company's outsourcing projects; (9) the ability to successfully manage currency (including currency issues in certain countries, such as Venezuela, China and India), debt, interest rate and commodity cost exposures and significant credit or liquidity issues; (10) the ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in the Company's significant geographical markets, as well as any political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions due to a global or regional credit crisis, or terrorist and other hostile activities or natural disasters (including the civil unrest in the Middle East and the Japan crisis); (11) the ability to successfully manage competitive factors, including prices, promotional incentives and trade terms for products; (12) the ability to obtain patents and respond to technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to competitors; (13) the ability to successfully manage increases in the prices of raw materials used to make the Company's products; (14) the ability to stay close to consumers in an era of increased media fragmentation; (15) the ability to stay on the leading edge of innovation and maintain a positive reputation on our brands; and (16) the ability to rely on and maintain key information technology systems, including the transition of our ordering, shipping and billing systems in North America and Western Europe to a new system.  For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected herein, please refer to our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports.
 
About Procter & Gamble
Four billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. The Company has one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Pampers, Tide, Ariel, Always, Whisper, Pantene, Mach3, Bounty, Dawn, Gain, Pringles, Charmin, Downy, Lenor, Iams, Crest, Oral-B, Duracell, Olay, Head & Shoulders, Wella, Gillette, Braun and Fusion. The P&G community includes approximately 127,000 employees working in about 80 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and in-depth information about P&G and its brands.
 
 
:
P&G Media Contacts
Paul Fox, 513.983.3465
Jennifer Chelune, 513.983.2570
 
:
P&G Investor Relations Contact
John Chevalier, 513.983.9974
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Procter & Gamble Company
 
Exhibit 1: Non-GAAP Measures
 
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings release and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.
 
Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons.  We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.  Organic sales is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.
Organic Sales Growth:
 
The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales is as follows:
*Acquisition/Divestiture Impact includes rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales.
 
             This is a measure of the Companys diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding a charge related to a tax provision for retiree healthcare subsidy payments in the U.S. healthcare reform legislation in the prior year period, charges related to pending European legal matters for current and prior years, and a significant adjustment to an income tax reserve related to the deductibility of technology donations in prior years.  We do not view these items to be part of our sustainable results.  We believe the Core EPS measure provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides a more comparable measure of year-on-year earnings per share growth.  Core EPS is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The table below provides a reconciliation of diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations to Core EPS:
Core EPS:
 
 
 
 
Note  All reconciling items are presented net of tax.  Tax effects are calculated consistent with the nature of the underlying transaction.  The charge for taxation of retiree healthcare subsidy and significant adjustment to an income tax reserve are tax expense.  There are no tax impacts on EPS due to the charges for pending European legal matters.
 
  Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.  We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment.  Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The reconciliation of free cash flow is provided below (amounts in millions):
Free Cash Flow:
 
  Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.  The Companys long-term target is to generate free cash flow at or above 90 percent of net earnings.  Free cash flow productivity is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management.  We believe this provides a better perspective of our underlying liquidity trends.  The reconciliation of free cash flow productivity is provided below (amounts in millions):
Free Cash Flow Productivity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


