FILE:PG/PG-8K-20120427100136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
 
 
BY:
 
/s/ Susan S. Whaley           
   
   
   
           Susan S. Whaley
           Assistant Secretary
           April 27, 2012
99.    Informational Slides Provided by The Procter & Gamble Company dated April 27, 2012.

 
 
 
 
 
The Procter & Gamble Company: Reg G Reconciliation of Non-GAAP measures
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings call and slides with the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.  The measures provided are as follows:
 
1. Organic Sales Growth:
Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons.  We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.  Organic sales is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Acquisition/Divestiture Impact includes rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales.
 
 
  This is a measure of the Companys diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items that are not judged to be part of the Companys sustainable results or trends.  This includes current year impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, current year charges related to incremental restructuring charges due to increased focus on productivity and cost savings, a significant benefit in FY 2011 from the settlement of U.S. tax litigation primarily related to the valuation of technology donations, charges in FYs 2012, 2011 and 2010 related to European legal matters, a FY 2010 charge related to a tax provision for retiree healthcare subsidy payments in the U.S. healthcare reform legislation, incremental restructuring charges in FY 2009 to offset the dilutive impact of the Folgers divestiture, and significant adjustments to tax reserves in FY 2008.  We believe the Core EPS measure provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides a more comparable measure of year-on-year earnings per share growth.  Core EPS is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The tables below provide a reconciliation of diluted net earnings per share to Core EPS:
2. Core EPS:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note  All reconciling items are presented net of tax.  Tax effects are calculated consistent with the nature of the underlying transaction.  The charge for the significant settlement from U.S. tax litigation is tax expense.
 
 
3. Core Operating Margin:
This is a measure of the Companys operating margin adjusted for current year charges related to incremental restructuring charges due to increased focus on productivity and cost savings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Core Gross Margin:
This is a measure of the Companys Gross Margin adjusted for the current year charges related to incremental restructuring charges due to increased focus on productivity and cost savings:
 
 
 
5. Core SG&A as a % of Net Sales:
This is a measure of the Companys SG&A as a % of Net Sales adjusted for the current year charges related to incremental restructuring charges due to increased focus on productivity and cost savings:
 
 
 
6. Core Operating Profit Growth:
This is a measure of the Companys operating profit growth adjusted for the current year impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, current year charges related to incremental restructuring charges due to increased focus on productivity and cost savings, and charges in current and prior year related to the European legal matters:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Core Effective Tax Rate:
This is a measure of the Companys effective tax rate adjusted for current year impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets and charges in current and prior year related to the European legal matters.  The table below provides a reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the Core tax rate:
 
 
 
8. Free Cash Flow:
Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.  We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment.  Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The reconciliation of free cash flow is provided below (amounts in millions):
 
 
 
9. Free Cash Flow Productivity:
Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.  The Companys long-term target is to generate free cash flow at or above 90 percent of net earnings.  Free cash flow productivity is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The reconciliation of free cash flow productivity is provided below (amounts in millions):
 
 
 


