FILE:PG/PG-8K-20120504161053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the quarter ended March 31, 2012, the Procter & Gamble Company (the Company) began presenting its Snacks business as a discontinued operation.  During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, the Company changed its segment reporting structure and presentation of the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  This Form 8-K provides pro forma historical Consolidated Statements of Earnings and segment results for the three months ended September 30, 2011, December 31, 2011, and June 30, 2011, as well as for the twelve months ended June 30, 2011.  This information in no way revises or restates the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Shareholders Equity or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Company and consolidated subsidiaries for any period.
 
Presentation of the Snacks Business as Discontinued Operations
Effective during the quarter ended March 31, 2012, we reported the Snacks business as discontinued operations due to the agreement that was announced in February 2012 to divest the Snacks business to The Kellogg Company.  Therefore, Snacks sales and earnings are no longer included in the results of the continuing operations of the Company.  The transaction is expected to close by the end of the current fiscal year, subject to necessary regulatory approvals.  Additionally, as a result of this change the Pet Care business is now included in the Fabric Care and Home Care segment effective in the January  March 2012 quarter.
 
Fiscal Year 2012 Changes to Global Business Unit (GBU) Structure
Effective during the quarter ended December 31, 2011, we implemented a number of changes to our organization structure within the Beauty & Grooming GBU, which resulted in changes to the components of the Beauty reportable segment and Grooming reportable segment.  These two segments transitioned from consumer-oriented to product-oriented segment breakouts.  As a result, female blades and razors transitioned from the Beauty reporting segment to the Grooming reporting segment, while male personal care products such as Old Spice and Gillette, moved from the Grooming reporting segment to the Beauty reporting segment.
 
Presentation of the Consolidated Statements of Earnings
Effective during the quarter ended December 31, 2011, we elected to revise our Consolidated Statements of Earnings to present separately the expense for net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. As previously disclosed, this expense has not historically been presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings due to immateriality, but has been reflected within other non-operating income/(expense). The historical Consolidated Statements of Earnings have been revised to conform to the new presentation.
 
 
This document provides pro forma historical segment and consolidated earnings information reflecting these changes for the three months ended September 30, 2011, December 31, 2011, and June 30, 2011, as well as for the twelve months ended June 30, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This 8-K is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


