FILE:PG/PG-8K-20120523130407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 BY:
 
/s/ Susan S. Whaley           
   
   
   
                                                   
  Susan S. Whaley
   
   
   
                                                   
  Assistant Secretary
   
   
   
                                                   
  May 23, 2012
   
   
   
99.    Presentation Slides Provided by The Procter & Gamble Company dated May 23, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
The Procter & Gamble Company: Reg G Reconciliation of Non-GAAP measures
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings call and slides with the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.  The measures provided are as follows:
 
 
1. Organic Sales Growth:
 
Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons.  We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.  Organic sales is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales is as follows:
 
 
*Acquisition/Divestiture Impact includes rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales.
 
 
2. Core Operating Profit Growth:
 
This is a measure of the Companys operating profit growth adjusted for the current year impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, current year charges related to incremental restructuring charges due to increased focus on productivity and cost savings, and charges in current and prior year related to the European legal matters:
 
 


