FILE:PG/PG-8K-20120906081921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 6, 2012, The Procter & Gamble Company (the Company) participated in the Barclays Back to School Consumer Conference. Pursuant to Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure, the Company is furnishing on this Form 8-K a series of slides referenced in the Companys remarks at the conference. Presentation slides are also posted on the Companys website.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Presentation Slides Provided by The Procter & Gamble Company dated September 6, 2012.
99.
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Procter & Gamble Company: Reg G Reconciliation of Non-GAAP measures
 
In accordance with the SECs Regulation G, the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the earnings call and slides with the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measure.  The measures provided are as follows:
 
1. Organic Sales Growth:
Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons.  We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.  Organic sales is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The reconciliation of reported sales growth to organic sales is as follows:
 
 
*Acquisition/Divestiture Impact includes rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales.
 
 
 
 
 
  This is a measure of the Companys diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items that are not judged to be part of the Companys sustainable results or trends.  This includes impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in FY 2012, charges related to incremental restructuring charges due to increased focus on productivity and cost savings in FY 2012, a significant benefit in FY 2011 from the settlement of U.S. tax litigation primarily related to the valuation of technology donations, charges in FYs 2012, 2011 and 2010 related to European legal matters, a FY 2010 charge related to a tax provision for retiree healthcare subsidy payments in the U.S. healthcare reform legislation, and incremental restructuring charges in FY 2009 to offset the dilutive impact of the Folgers divestiture.  We believe the Core EPS measure provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides a more comparable measure of year-on-year earnings per share growth.  Core EPS is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The tables below provide a reconciliation of diluted net earnings per share to Core EPS:
2. Core EPS:
 
 
3. Free Cash Flow / Adjusted Free Cash Flow:
Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.  Adjusted free cash flow is free cash flow adjusted for after-tax impacts of major divestitures.  We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment.  Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The reconciliation of free cash flow is provided below (amounts in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Adjusted Free Cash Productivity:
Adjusted free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings excluding the gains from major divestitures.  Given the size of these gains and our view that they are not part of our sustainable results, we have excluded gains from our calculation.    We believe this provides a better perspective of our underlying liquidity trends.  The Companys long-term target is to generate free cash flow at or above 90 percent of net earnings.  Adjusted free cash flow productivity is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation.  The reconciliation of adjusted free cash flow productivity is provided below (amounts in millions):
 
 
 


