Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW The following overview is a top level discussion of our operating results as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10 K, including in the Business section and the Risk Factors above, the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute interactive software games that are playable by consumers on home video game consoles (such as the Sony PlayStation 2, Microsoft Xbox and Xbox 360tm, and Nintendo GameCubetm), personal computers, mobile platforms (including cellular handsets and hand held game players such as the Nintendo DStm and the PlayStation Portable PSPtm) and online, over the Internet and other proprietary online networks. Some of our games are based on content that we license from others (e.g., Madden NFL Football, The Godfather and FIFA Soccer), and some of our games are based on our own wholly owned intellectual property (e.g., The Simstm, Need for Speedtm and BLACKtm). Our goal is to publish titles with mass market appeal, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in non English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game franchises that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property. Examples of this franchise approach are the annual iterations of our sports based products (e.g., Madden NFL Football, NCAA Football and FIFA Soccer), wholly owned properties that can be successfully sequeled (e.g., The Sims, Need for Speed and Battlefield) and titles based on long lived literary movie properties (e.g. Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter). Overview of Financial Results Total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 was $2.951 billion, down 6 percent as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. Total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 was driven by sales of Need for Speedtm Most Wanted, Madden NFL 06, FIFA 06, The Simstm 2, and Harry Potter and the Goblet of Firetm. Four titles sold more than five million units in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006: Need for Speed Most Wanted, Madden NFL 06, FIFA 06, and The Sims 2. Net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 was $236 million as compared to $504 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. Diluted net income per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 was $0.75 as compared to $1.59 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. We generated $596 million in cash from operating activities during the year ended March 31, 2006 as compared to generating $634 million for year ended March 31, 2005. The decrease in cash generated from operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in our net revenue and an increase in our operating expenses primarily to support the development of next generation console games. This decrease was partially offset by a lower accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2006 compared to March 31, 2005, resulting from a higher percentage of revenue recognized in the first two months of our fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, which allowed us to collect a higher percentage of our revenue during the quarter. Managements Overview of Historical and Prospective Business Trends Transition to Next Generation Consoles. Our industry is cyclical and in the midst of a transition stage heading into the next cycle. During the three months ended December 31, 2005, Microsoft launched the Xbox 360, and Sony and Nintendo have both announced their intention to introduce new video game consoles in the coming months. We expect that, as the current generation of consoles continue to progress 33 Table of Contents and eventually reach the end of their commercial life cycle and next generation consoles are introduced into the market, sales of video games for current generation consoles will continue to decline as consumers replace their current generation consoles with next generation consoles, or defer game software purchases until they are able to purchase a next generation console. This pattern is referred to in our industry as a transition to next generation consoles. During this transition, we intend to continue to develop new titles for current generation video game consoles while we also continue to make significant investments in the development of products for next generation consoles. We expect the average selling prices and the number of units of our titles for current generation consoles to continue to decline as more value oriented consumers purchase current generation consoles, a greater number of competitive titles are published at reduced price points, and consumers defer purchases in anticipation of next generation consoles. We expect our gross margins to be negatively impacted by (1) a decrease in average selling prices of titles for current generation platforms, (2) higher license royalty rates, and (3) amortization of our newly acquired intangible assets. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, higher costs during this transition to next generation consoles. Moreover, we expect development costs for next generation video games to be greater on a per title basis than development costs for current generation video games. We also expect our operating expenses to increase for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007 as compared to prior fiscal years, primarily as a result of (1) the recognition of stock based compensation due to our adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS No. 123R), and (2) higher expenditures for research and development due to our investment in next generation consoles, online and mobile platforms. As we move through the life cycle of current generation consoles, we will continue to devote significant resources to the development of current generation titles while at the same time continuing to invest heavily in tools, technologies and titles for the next generation of platforms and technology. We expect our operating results to continue to be volatile and difficult to predict, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. Expansion of Mobile Platforms. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving platforms for on the go interactive entertainment that appeal to a broader demographic of consumers. Our efforts to capitalize on the growth in mobile interactive entertainment are focused in two broad areas packaged goods games for handheld game systems and downloadable games for cellular handsets. We have developed and published games for a variety of handheld platforms, including the Nintendo Gameboy and Gameboy Advance, for several years. The introductions of the Sony PSP and the Nintendo DS, with their richer graphics, deeper gameplay, and online functionality, provide a richer mobile gaming experience to consumers. As a result, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, an increase in demand for our games for handheld platforms. In fiscal 2006, our net revenue from handheld platforms increased 217 percent over fiscal 2005 to $374 million. As cellular handsets become more and more commonplace and wireless technology advances to include high resolution color displays, increased processing power and improved audio capabilities, we expect sales of games for cellular handsets to become an increasingly important part of our business worldwide. To accelerate our position in this growing segment, in February 2006, we acquired JAMDAT Mobile Inc. (JAMDAT), a global publisher of wireless games and other wireless entertainment applications. As a result of this acquisition, in fiscal 2007, we expect our net revenue from games for cellular handsets to increase significantly from $19 million in fiscal 2006. Likewise, the acquisition, along with the additional investment required to grow this portion of our business globally, will result in increased development and operating expenses. As mobile technology continues to evolve and the installed base of both handheld game systems and cellular phones expands, we expect that sales of our titles for mobile platforms for both handhelds and cellular handsets will become an increasingly important part of our business. Investment in Online. Today, we generate net revenue from a variety of online products and services, including casual games and downloadable content marketed under our Pogo brand, persistent state world 34 Table of Contents games such as Ultima Onlinetm, PC based downloadable content and online enabled packaged goods. As the nature of online game offerings expands and evolves, we anticipate long term opportunities for growth in this business. For example, we expect that consumers will take advantage of the online connectivity of next generation consoles at a much higher rate than they have so far on current generation consoles, allowing more consumers to enhance their gameplay experience through multiplayer activity, community building and downloading content. We also plan to increase the amount of content available for download on the PC and consoles, and to enable entire PC based games to be downloaded electronically. In addition, we plan to expand our casual game offerings internationally and to invest in growing genres such as advanced casual games. Although we intend to make significant investments in online products, infrastructure and services and believe that online gameplay will become an increasingly important part of our business in the long term, we do not expect revenue from persistent state world games or online gameplay and distribution to be significant in fiscal 2007. International Expansion. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 46 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal 2006. We expect international sales to remain a fundamental part of our business. We believe that in order to succeed in Asia, it is important to locally develop content that is specifically directed toward Asian cultures and consumers. As such, we expect to continue to devote resources to hiring local development talent and expanding our infrastructure outside of North America, most notably, through the expansion and creation of local studio facilities in Asia. In addition, we are in the process of establishing online game marketing, publishing and distribution functions in China. Further, we are planning to expand our development and publishing activities in the cellular handset games business in Europe and Asia. As part of our international expansion strategy, we may seek to partner with established local companies through acquisitions, joint ventures or other similar arrangements. Sales of Hit Titles. Sales of hit titles, several of which were top sellers in a number of countries, contributed significantly to our net revenue. Our top selling titles across all platforms worldwide during the year ended March 31, 2006 were Need for Speed Most Wanted, Madden NFL 06, FIFA 06, The Sims 2, and Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Hit titles are important to our financial performance because they benefit from overall economies of scale. We have developed, and it is our objective to continue to develop, many of our hit titles to become franchise titles that can be regularly iterated. Increasing Licensing Costs. We generate a significant portion of our net revenue and operating income from games based on licensed content such as Madden NFL Football, FIFA Soccer, Harry Potter and ESPN. We have recently entered into new licenses and renewed older licenses, some of which contain higher royalty rates than similar license agreements we have entered into in the past. We believe these licenses, and the product franchises they support, will continue to be important to our future operations, but the higher costs of these licenses will negatively impact our gross margins. International Foreign Exchange Impact. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 46 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal 2006 and approximately 47 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal 2005. Our international net revenue was primarily driven by sales in Europe and, to a lesser extent, in Asia. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on our net revenue of $36 million, or 1 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2006 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. Acquisitions, Investments and Strategic Transactions. We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including (1) acquisitions of companies, businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets, and (2) investments in new interactive entertainment businesses (for example, online and mobile games). In fiscal 2006, we acquired JAMDAT as part of our efforts to accelerate our growth in mobile gaming, and in fiscal 2005 we acquired Criterion Software Group, Ltd. (Criterion), and took a controlling interest in Digital Illusions C.E. (DICE). We signed an agreement to fully merge DICE into EA, which will allow DICE to become an integrated studio. The merger is expected to be completed during our fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2006. 35 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation. On April 2, 2006, the first day of our current fiscal year, we adopted SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payment, which requires us to recognize compensation expense for all stock based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, beginning with our first quarter of fiscal 2007, our operating results will contain a charge for stock based compensation related to the equity based compensation we provide to our employees, as well as stock purchases under our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. This expense will be in addition to the stock based compensation expense we have recognized in prior periods related to restricted stock unit grants, acquisitions and other grants. The stock based compensation charges we incur will depend on the number of equity based awards we grant, the number of shares of common stock we sell under our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as well as a number of estimates and variables such as estimated forfeiture rates, the trading price and volatility of our common stock, the expected term of our options, and interest rates. As a result, our stock based compensation charges can vary significantly from period to period. The expensing of stock based compensation will have a material adverse impact on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and may not be similar to our pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123, as amended. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We principally derive revenue from sales of packaged interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PlayStation 2, Xbox, Xbox 360 and Nintendo GameCube), PCs and mobile platforms including handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP, Nintendo DS and Nintendo Game Boy Advance) and cellular handsets. We evaluate the recognition of revenue based on the criteria set forth in Statement of Position (SOP) 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98 9, Modification of SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions and Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, as revised by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition. We evaluate revenue recognition using the following basic criteria and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement: Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products must be present in order to recognize revenue. Delivery: Delivery is considered to occur when the products are shipped and risk of loss and reward have been transferred to the customer. For online games and services, revenue is recognized as the service is provided. Fixed or determinable fee: If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize that amount as revenue when the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable: At the time of the transaction, we conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection). Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. For 36 Table of Contents example, for multiple element arrangements, we must make assumptions and judgments in order to: (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services; (3) determine whether vendor specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) exists for each undelivered element; and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver. Changes to any of these assumptions or judgments, or changes to the elements in a software arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors (channel partners), is recognized when the above criteria are met. We reduce product revenue for estimated future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. In certain countries, we have stock balancing programs for our PC and video game system products, which allow for the exchange of these products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange products or give credits, rather than give cash refunds. In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for both our PC and video game system products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell through of distributor and retailer inventory of our products, current trends in the video game market and the overall economy, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing products. For example, the risk of product returns and or price protection for our products may continue to increase as the PlayStation 2, Xbox and Nintendo GameCube consoles move through their lifecycles and an increasing number and aggregate amount of competitive products heighten pricing and competitive pressures. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates changed, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our reported total net revenue. Significant judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers and (3) co publishing and or distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for delivery of product. Royalty based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty based obligations are generally expensed to cost of goods sold generally at the greater of the contractual rate or 37 Table of Contents an effective royalty rate based on expected net product sales. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for hit based titles is particularly difficult due to the inherent risk of such titles. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co publishing affiliates are generally in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed as research and development as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of goods sold generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on expected net product sales. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no significant performance remains with the licensor. When significant performance remains with the licensor, we record royalty payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than upon execution of the contract. Minimum royalty payment obligations are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next twelve months. As of March 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately $9 million and $51 million, respectively, of minimum guaranteed royalty obligations had been recognized. Each quarter, we also evaluate the future realization of our royalty based assets as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments determined post launch are charged to cost of goods sold. In either case, we rely on estimated revenue to evaluate the future realization of prepaid royalties and commitments. If actual sales or revised revenue estimates fall below the initial revenue estimate, then the actual charge taken may be greater in any given quarter than anticipated. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, we recorded impairment charges of $16 million, $8 million and $2 million, respectively. Valuation of Long Lived Assets We evaluate both purchased intangible assets and other long lived assets in order to determine if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in value exists. This evaluation requires us to estimate, among other things, the remaining useful lives of the assets and future cash flows of the business. These evaluations and estimates require the use of judgment. Our actual results could differ materially from our current estimates. Under current accounting standards, we make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets and other long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management makes various assumptions about the future value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated cash flows. Our future net cash flows are primarily dependent on the sale of products for play on proprietary video game consoles, handheld game players, PCs and cellular handsets (platforms). The success of our products is affected by our ability to accurately predict which platforms and which products we develop will be successful. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. Due to product sales shortfalls, we may not realize the future net cash flows necessary to recover our long lived assets, which may result in an impairment charge being recorded in the future. We did not record any asset impairment charges in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2004, we recognized less than $1 million of asset impairment charges. 38 Table of Contents Income Taxes In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our current tax exposures in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues, require extended periods of time to resolve, and require us to make judgments, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. We are also required to make determinations of the need to record deferred tax liabilities and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance is established to the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely based on our estimation of future taxable income in each jurisdiction. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate and result in a variance between the projected effective tax rate for any quarter and the final effective tax rate for the fiscal year. With respect to our projected annual effective income tax rate at the end of each quarter prior to the end of a fiscal year, we are required to make a projection of several items, including our projected mix of full year income in each jurisdiction in which we operate and the related income tax expense in each jurisdiction. This projection is inherently uncertain and can fluctuate throughout the fiscal year. The projected annual effective income tax rate may also be adjusted for taxes related to certain anticipated changes in how we do business. Significant non recurring charges are taken in the quarter incurred. The actual results could and often does vary from those projections, and as such, the overall effective income tax rate for a fiscal year could be different from that previously projected for the full year. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 or 53 week period that, historically, has ended on the final Saturday of March in each year. Beginning with the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, we end our fiscal year on the Saturday nearest March 31. As a result, fiscal 2006 contains 53 weeks with the first quarter containing 14 weeks. Our results of operations for the fiscal years March 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 contain the following number of weeks: Fiscal Years Ended Number of Weeks Fiscal Period End Date March 31, 2007 52 weeks March 31, 2007 March 31, 2006 53 weeks April 1, 2006 March 31, 2005 52 weeks March 26, 2005 March 31, 2004 52 weeks March 27, 2004 For simplicity of presentation, all fiscal periods are treated as ending on a calendar month end. Comparison of Fiscal 2006 to Fiscal 2005 Net Revenue We principally derive net revenue from sales of packaged interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PlayStation 2, Xbox, Xbox 360 and Nintendo GameCube), PCs and mobile platforms which include handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP, Nintendo DS and Nintendo Game Boy Advance) and cellular handsets. We also derive net revenue from selling services to some of our online games, programming third party web sites with our game content, allowing other 39 Table of Contents companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and selling advertisements on our online web pages. From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase/ % 2006 2005 (Decrease) Change North America $ 1,584 54 % $ 1,665 53 % $ (81 ) (5 %) Europe 1,174 40 % 1,284 41 % (110 ) (9 %) Asia 193 6 % 180 6 % 13 7 % International 1,367 46 % 1,464 47 % (97 ) (7 %) Total Net Revenue $ 2,951 100 % $ 3,129 100 % $ (178 ) (6 %) North America For fiscal 2006, net revenue in North America was $1,584 million, driven primarily by sales of (1) Madden NFL 06, Need for Speed Most Wanted, NBA LIVE 06, NCAA Football 06 and The Sims 2, (2) titles for the PSP, which was launched in North America in March 2005, and (3) titles for the Xbox 360, which launched in November 2005. Overall, net revenue decreased $81 million, or 5 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. As noted in the Overview section above, our industry is in the midst of a transition from current generation to next generation consoles. Our net revenue was adversely impacted by this transition in fiscal 2006 as overall net revenue from sales of our titles for the PlayStation2, Xbox and Nintendo GameCube decreased. While sales of titles for the PSP and the Xbox 360 helped to mitigate the impact of the transition in fiscal 2006, they were not enough to offset the overall decrease in net revenue in North America. As the transition to next generation consoles continues in fiscal 2007, we expect net revenue from sales of titles for current generation consoles to further decline. From a title and franchise perspective, the decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our NFL Street, NBA Street, Def Jam and The Urbztm franchises as there were no corresponding titles released during fiscal 2006, and (2) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings franchise which was released on multiple platforms during fiscal 2005 as compared to two platforms, the PSP and PC, during fiscal 2006. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by (1) sales of Battlefield 2tm on the PC which was released during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and Battlefield 2: Modern Combattm on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox released during the third quarter of fiscal 2006, (2) increased net revenue from our Madden franchise primarily resulting from the release of Madden NFL 06 on the Xbox 360 and PSP in fiscal 2006, and (3) increased net revenue from our Burnout franchise primarily resulting from the release of Burnouttm Revenge on the Xbox 360 and Burnouttm Legends on the PSP in fiscal 2006. Europe For fiscal 2006, net revenue in Europe was $1,174 million, driven primarily by sales of Need for Speed Most Wanted, FIFA 06, The Sims 2, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, as well as sales of titles for the PSP and Xbox 360 which were both introduced in Europe during fiscal 2006. Overall, net revenue declined $110 million, or 9 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro and the British pound sterling) decreased reported European net revenue by approximately $36 million, or 3 percent, net of realized gains from hedging activities, for the fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that European net revenue decreased by approximately $74 million, or 6 percent, for fiscal 2006. Our net revenue in Europe was adversely impacted by the transition to next generation consoles in fiscal 2006 as overall net revenue from sales of our titles for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and Nintendo GameCube decreased. Sales of titles for the PSP, Nintendo DS, and the Xbox 360, however, were enough to offset the overall decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for current generation consoles. 40 Table of Contents From a title and franchise perspective, the overall decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings and The Sims franchises, (2) the release of The Urbztm: Sims in the Citytm during the three months ended December 31, 2004 as there was no corresponding title released during fiscal 2006, and (3) higher fiscal 2005 sales of UEFA Euro 2004tm, which was released in the three months ended June 30, 2004 in conjunction with the UEFA Euro 2004 football tournament held in Europe. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by increased net revenue from our Battlefield franchise due to the release of multiple titles during fiscal 2006 and our FIFA Street franchise due to the initial release of FIFA Street late in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 which benefited fiscal 2006 and the release of FIFA Street 2 earlier in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. Asia For fiscal 2006, net revenue in Asia increased by $13 million, or 7 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. The increase in net revenue for fiscal 2006 was driven primarily by sales of titles for the PSP, which launched in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. We estimate that the foreign exchange rate impact on Asia net revenue was not material for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. Our total net revenue by product line for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase/ % 2006 2005 (Decrease) Change Consoles PlayStation 2 $ 1,127 38 % $ 1,330 43 % $ (203 ) (15 %) Xbox 400 13 % 516 16 % (116 ) (22 %) Xbox 360 140 5 % 140 N/M Nintendo GameCube 135 5 % 212 7 % (77 ) (36 %) Other consoles 1 10 (9 ) (90 %) Total Consoles 1,803 61 % 2,068 66 % (265 ) (13 %) PC 418 14 % 531 17 % (113 ) (21 %) Mobility PSP 252 9 % 18 1 % 234 1,300 % Nintendo DS 67 2 % 23 1 % 44 191 % Game Boy Advance and Game Boy Color 55 2 % 77 2 % (22 ) (29 %) Cellular Handsets 19 1 % 19 N/M Total Mobility 393 14 % 118 4 % 275 233 % Co publishing and Distribution 213 7 % 283 9 % (70 ) (25 %) Internet Services, Licensing and Other Subscription Services 61 2 % 55 2 % 6 11 % Licensing, Advertising and Other 63 2 % 74 2 % (11 ) (15 %) Total Internet Services, Licensing and Other 124 4 % 129 4 % (5 ) (4 %) Total Net Revenue $ 2,951 100 % $ 3,129 100 % $ (178 ) (6 %) PlayStation 2 For fiscal 2006, net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2 was $1,127 million, driven primarily by sales of Need for Speed Most Wanted, Madden NFL 06, FIFA 06, NCAA Football 06 and NBA LIVE 06. We released 28 titles for the PlayStation 2 during fiscal 2006, as compared to 27 titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, PlayStation 2 net revenue decreased $203 million, or 15 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. As noted above, we believe the transition to next generation consoles adversely impacted our net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2 in fiscal 2006. We expect net revenue from sales of titles for the 41 Table of Contents PlayStation 2 to continue to decrease in fiscal 2007 as we move through the transition to next generation consoles. From a title and franchise perspective, the decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings, The Urbz, Def Jam, NFL Street and NBA Street franchises, none of which had fiscal 2006 releases, and (2) lower sales of fiscal 2006 releases from our Need for Speed and Bond franchises as well as lower sales of our Fight Night franchise from which two titles were released in fiscal 2005 as compared to one title in fiscal 2006. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by the releases of The Godfathertm The Game, BLACKtm, Medal of Honor European Assaulttm, and Battlefield 2: Modern Combat none of which had a corresponding release in fiscal 2005. Xbox For fiscal 2006, net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox was $400 million, driven primarily by sales of Madden NFL 06, Need for Speed Most Wanted, NCAA Football 06 and Burnout Revenge. We released 28 titles for the Xbox during fiscal 2006, as compared to 26 titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, Xbox net revenue decreased $116 million, or 22 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. We believe the transition to next generation consoles, particularly the launch of the Xbox 360 during the last half of fiscal 2006, adversely impacted our net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox in fiscal 2006. We expect net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox to continue to decrease in fiscal 2007 as we move through the transition and the Xbox 360 installed base grows. From a title and franchise perspective, the decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings, NFL Street, Def Jam, NBA Street and The Urbz franchises, none of which had fiscal 2006 releases, and (2) lower sales of fiscal 2006 releases from our Need for Speed and Bond franchises as well as lower sales of our Fight Night franchise from which two titles were released in fiscal 2005 as compared to one title in fiscal 2006. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by the release of Battlefield 2: Modern Combat, BLACK and The Godfather The Game, none of which had a corresponding release in fiscal 2005. Xbox 360 The Xbox 360 was launched in North America, Europe and Japan during the three months ended December 31, 2005, and in the rest of Asia during the three months ended March 31, 2006. As of March 31 2006, the installed base of the Xbox 360 continued to be small compared to the installed base of the Xbox. Net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360 was $140 million for fiscal 2006, driven by sales of Need for Speed Most Wanted, Madden NFL 06 and EA SPORTStm Fight Night Round 3. We released seven titles for the Xbox 360 in fiscal 2006. We expect net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360 to increase in fiscal 2007 as the installed base grows and we release more titles. Nintendo GameCube For fiscal 2006, net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo GameCube was $135 million, driven primarily by sales of Need for Speed Most Wanted, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and Madden NFL 06. We released 14 titles for the Nintendo GameCube during fiscal 2006, as compared to 20 titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, Nintendo GameCube net revenue decreased $77 million, or 36 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005, consistent with the percentage decline in the number of titles we released for this platform. We believe the transition to next generation consoles adversely impacted our net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo GameCube in fiscal 2006. We expect net revenue from sales of titles for the GameCube to continue to decrease in fiscal 2007 as we move through the transition to next generation consoles. From a title and franchise perspective, the decrease in net revenue in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings, The Urbz, NBA Street, NFL Street and Def Jam franchises, none of which had fiscal 2006 releases, and (2) lower sales of fiscal 2006 releases from our Need for Speed and Bond franchises. PC For fiscal 2006, net revenue from sales of titles for the PC was $418 million, driven primarily by sales of titles from The Sims franchise and Battlefield 2. We released 22 titles for the PC during fiscal 2006, as 42 Table of Contents compared to 21 titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, PC net revenue decreased $113 million, or 21 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily due to (1) significantly higher fiscal 2005 sales of The Sims 2, (2) lower sales from our Medal of Honortm franchise as there were no corresponding titles released during fiscal 2006, and (3) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings franchise. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by current year sales of products from our Battlefield franchise. On January 27, 2005, we began consolidating the financial results of Digital Illusion C.E. (a game development company based in Sweden of which we are the majority owner) into our financial statements, and, therefore, have characterized Battlefield 2 PC based revenue as part of our PC product line. Prior to consolidating DICEs financial results, we classified revenue from the Battlefield franchise as co publishing and distribution revenue. Mobile Platforms Net revenue from mobile products consisting of packaged goods games for handheld systems and downloadable games for cellular handsets increased from $118 million in fiscal 2005 to $393 million in fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily due to sales of titles released in fiscal 2006 for the PSP, and the Nintendo DS, both of which were launched in fiscal 2005 in certain countries. We released 16 titles for the PSP during fiscal 2006, as compared to three titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, PSP net revenue increased $234 million, driven primarily by sales of titles from our Need for Speed, FIFA, Burnout and Madden franchises. We released ten titles for the Nintendo DS during fiscal 2006, as compared to three titles in fiscal 2005. Nintendo DS net revenue increased $44 million, driven primarily by sales of titles from our Need for Speed, The Sims and Madden franchises. The increase in PSP and Nintendo DS net revenue was partially offset by lower sales of titles for the Game Boy Advance. We expect mobile platform revenue to continue to increase in fiscal 2007, driven primarily by anticipated growth in our cellular handset games business. Co Publishing and Distribution Net revenue from co publishing and distribution products decreased from $283 million in fiscal 2005 to $213 million in fiscal 2006. The decrease was primarily due to (1) the change in our classification of sales of products from our Battlefield franchise, which, as discussed above, we no longer classify as co publishing and distribution revenue, and (2) overall higher fiscal 2005 sales of various co publishing and distribution titles. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by sales of Half Life 2 in fiscal 2006. Subscription Services Net revenue from subscription services increased from $55 million in fiscal 2005 to $61 million in fiscal 2006. The increase in net revenue was primarily due to an increase in the number of paying subscribers to Club Pogotm, partially offset by a decrease in net revenue from Ultima Online. Licensing, Advertising and Other Net revenue from licensing, advertising and other decreased from $74 million in fiscal 2005 to $63 million in fiscal 2006. The decrease in net revenue was primarily due to Nokia N Gage license revenue in fiscal 2005. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for our packaged goods business consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, and (7) operations expenses. Volume discounts are generally recognized upon achievement of milestones and vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is 43 Table of Contents recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online products consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our web sites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third party properties. Cost of goods sold for our web site advertising business primarily consists of ad serving costs. Cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue % Change $1,181 40.0% $ 1,197 38.2% (1.3%) In fiscal 2006, cost of goods sold as a percentage of total net revenue increased 1.8 percent from 38.2 percent to 40.0 percent. As a percentage of total net revenue, the increase was primarily due to an increase in our license royalties associated with new license agreements for our football titles. We expect cost of goods sold as a percentage of total net revenue to increase during fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. Although there can be no assurance, and our actual results could differ materially, we expect gross margin pressure as a result of (1) a decrease in average selling prices of titles for current generation platforms, (2) higher license royalty rates, and (3) amortization of our newly acquired intangible assets. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel related costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of advertising expense reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $431 15% $ 391 13% $40 10% Marketing and sales expenses increased by $40 million, or 10 percent, in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $30 million in our marketing and advertising, promotional and related contracted service expenses as a result of increased advertising to support our titles, and (2) an increase of $11 million in personnel related costs resulting from an increase in facilities and headcount related expenses in support of our marketing and sales functions worldwide. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $41 million and $42 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect marketing and sales expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2007 primarily due to our adoption of SFAS No. 123R, which will require us to expense stock based compensation. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $215 7% $ 221 7% $ (6 ) (3%) General and administrative expenses decreased by $6 million, or 3 percent, in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 primarily due to a decrease in employee related costs resulting from charges taken in connection with certain employee related litigation matters in fiscal 2005. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in personnel related expenses due to an increase in headcount costs as well as an increase in professional and contracted services to support our business. 44 Table of Contents We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2007 primarily due to our adoption of SFAS No. 123R, which will require us to expense stock based compensation. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel related costs, consulting, equipment depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre launch products. Research and development expenses for our online business include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of web site content, network infrastructure direct expenses, software licenses and maintenance, and network and management overhead. Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $758 26% $ 633 20% $ 125 20% Research and development expenses increased by $125 million, or 20 percent, in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The increase is primarily due to an increase of $124 million in personnel related costs resulting from an increase in employee headcount in our Canadian and European studios as we increased our internal development efforts and invested in next generation tools, technologies and titles, as well as consolidation of DICE. To a lesser extent, these increases were also due to higher facilities related costs offset by lower third party development costs. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2007 primarily as a result of (1) our recognition of stock based compensation, and (2) our investment in next generation consoles, online and mobile platforms. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $7 $3 $4 133% For fiscal 2006, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, Criterion and others. For fiscal 2005, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisition of Criterion and others. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. We expect amortization of intangible expenses to increase in fiscal 2007 primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to JAMDAT. Acquired In process Technology Acquired in process technology charges for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $8 $13 1% $ (5 ) (38%) The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal 2006 was primarily the result of our acquisition of JAMDAT. The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal 2005 was the result of our acquisitions of Criterion, and a majority stake of the outstanding shares of DICE. Acquired in process technology includes the value of products in the development stage that are not considered to have reached technological feasibility or have an alternative future use. Accordingly, upon consummation of these acquisitions, we incurred a charge for the acquired in process technology, as reflected in our 45 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $26 1% $2 $24 1,200% In November 2005, we announced plans to establish an international publishing headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. Since that time and through the six months ending September 30, 2006, we expect to continue to relocate certain current employees to our new facility in Geneva, close certain facilities in the U.K., and make other related changes in our international publishing business. During fiscal 2006, restructuring charges were approximately $14 million, of which $8 million was for the closure of certain U.K. facilities, $3 million for employee related expenses, and $3 million in other costs relating to our international publishing reorganization. In fiscal 2007, we expect to incur between $15 million and $20 million of restructuring costs. Overall, including fiscal 2006, we expect to incur between $40 million and $50 million of restructuring costs, substantially all of which will result in cash expenditures by 2017. These restructuring costs will consist primarily of employee related relocation assistance (approximately $28 million), facility exit costs (approximately $10 million), as well as other reorganization costs (approximately $8 million). While we may incur severance costs paid to terminating employees in connection with the reorganization, we do not expect these costs to be significant. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we aligned our resources with our product plan for fiscal 2007 and strategic opportunities with next generation consoles, online and mobile platforms. As part of this alignment we recorded a total pre tax restructuring charge of $10 million consisting entirely of one time benefits related to headcount reductions which are included in restructuring charges in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $64 2% $56 2% $8 14% For fiscal 2006, interest and other income, net, increased by $8 million, or 14 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005 primarily due to an increase of $31 million in interest income as a result of higher yields on our cash, cash equivalent and short term investment balances, partially offset by a net loss of $22 million in investments and foreign currency activities. Income Taxes Income taxes for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, Effective March 31, Effective 2006 Tax Rate 2005 Tax Rate % Change $ 147 37.6% $ 221 30.5% (33%) Our effective income tax rates were 37.6 percent and 30.5 percent for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. For fiscal 2006, our effective income tax rate is higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent for fiscal 2006 due to a number of factors, including the repatriation of foreign earnings in connection with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act), as discussed below, and additional charges resulting from certain intercompany transactions during the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006, which were partially offset by other items. 46 Table of Contents We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. With the exception of taking advantage of the one time opportunity afforded to us by the Jobs Act, we currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. In July 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an exposure draft of a proposed interpretation of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes which addresses the accounting for uncertain tax positions. Including subsequent updates issued by the FASB, the proposed interpretation provides that the best estimate of the impact of a tax position would be recognized in an entitys financial statements only if it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit based solely on its technical merits. This proposed interpretation also would provide guidance on recognition and measurement, balance sheet presentation, disclosure, accrual of interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and transition. We cannot predict what actions the FASB will take or how any such actions might ultimately affect our financial position or results of operations. In January 2006, the FASB announced that companies would not have to apply the proposed interpretation until fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2006. An exposure draft of proposed amendments to SFAS No. 109 is expected in the third quarter of calendar year 2006. Our effective income tax rates for fiscal 2007 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors. For example, changes in our business, including acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, as well as changes in, or termination of, our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate for future fiscal years. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our consolidated income. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre tax income than higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre tax income, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. Net Income Net income for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $236 8% $ 504 16% $(268) (53%) Reported net income decreased by $268 million, or 53 percent, in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in our net revenue and growth in our operating expenses. The growth in our operating expenses was primarily driven by an increase in research and development expenses as we increased our internal development efforts and invested in next generation tools, technologies and titles, while at the same time we continued to support current generation product development. We expect our net income to decline in fiscal 2007 as a result of (1) the effect of stock based compensation charges required by our adoption of SFAS No. 123R, and (2) our continued support of current generation product development while at the same time making significant investments in next generation consoles, online and mobile platforms. 47 Table of Contents Comparison of Fiscal 2005 to Fiscal 2004 Net Revenue From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, % 2005 2004 Increase Change North America $ 1,665 53 % $ 1,610 54 % $ 55 3 % Europe 1,284 41 % 1,180 40 % 104 9 % Asia 180 6 % 167 6 % 13 8 % International 1,464 47 % 1,347 46 % 117 9 % Total Net Revenue $ 3,129 100 % $ 2,957 100 % $ 172 6 % North America For fiscal 2005, net revenue in North America increased by 3 percent as compared to fiscal 2004. From a franchise perspective, the net revenue increase was primarily due to higher sales of products in our Need for Speed franchise. The net revenue increase was also driven by sales of titles in our Fight Night and Burnout franchises, neither of which had corresponding titles released in fiscal 2004. Together, these items resulted in a net revenue increase of $180 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was partially offset by lower sales of products in our Medal of Honor, SSXtm and Lord of the Rings franchises, which reduced net revenue by $135 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004. As part of this overall increase in net revenue, we benefited from the launch of the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP in November 2004 and March 2005, respectively. Europe For fiscal 2005, net revenue in Europe increased by 9 percent as compared to fiscal 2004. We estimate foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro and the British pound sterling) strengthened reported European net revenue by approximately $86 million, or 7 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that European net revenue increased by approximately $18 million, or 2 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2005. From a franchise perspective, the net revenue increase was primarily due to (1) higher sales of products in our Need for Speed and The Sims franchises, (2) sales of products in our Burnout franchise which did not have a corresponding title release in fiscal 2004 and (3) sales of UEFA Euro 2004, which was released during the three months ended June 30, 2004 in conjunction with the UEFA Euro 2004 football tournament held in Europe. Together, these items resulted in a net revenue increase of $241 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was partially offset by lower sales of products in our Medal of Honor, Final Fantasy, SSX and Lord of the Rings franchises, which reduced net revenue by $143 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004. Asia For fiscal 2005, net revenue from sales in Asia increased by 8 percent as compared to fiscal 2004. The increase in net revenue was driven primarily by higher sales of products in our Need for Speed franchise and sales of products in our Burnout franchise, which did not have a corresponding title release in fiscal 2004, partially offset by declines in our Medal of Honor franchise. We estimate foreign exchange rates strengthened reported Asia net revenue by approximately $9 million, or 5 percent, for the fiscal year ended 48 Table of Contents March 31, 2005. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that Asia net revenue increased by approximately $4 million, or 3 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. Our total net revenue by product line for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase/ % 2005 2004 (Decrease) Change Consoles PlayStation 2 $ 1,330 43 % $ 1,315 44 % $ 15 1 % Xbox 516 16 % 384 13 % 132 34 % Nintendo GameCube 212 7 % 200 7 % 12 6 % Other consoles 10 30 1 % (20 ) (67 %) Total Consoles 2,068 66 % 1,929 65 % 139 7 % PC 531 17 % 470 16 % 61 13 % Mobility Game Boy Advance and Game Boy Color 77 2 % 78 3 % (1 ) (1 %) Nintendo DS 23 1 % 23 N/M PSP 18 1 % 18 N/M Total Mobility 118 4 % 78 3 % 40 51 % Co publishing and Distribution 283 9 % 398 13 % (115 ) (29 %) Internet Services, Licensing and Other Subscription Services 55 2 % 49 2 % 6 12 % Licensing, Advertising and Other 74 2 % 33 1 % 41 124 % Total Internet Services, Licensing and Other 129 4 % 82 3 % 47 57 % Total Net Revenue $ 3,129 100 % $ 2,957 100 % $ 172 6 % PlayStation 2 Net revenue from PlayStation 2 products increased from $1,315 million in fiscal 2004 to $1,330 million in fiscal 2005. As a percentage of total net revenue, sales of PlayStation 2 products decreased by 1 percent in fiscal 2005. Xbox Net revenue from Xbox products increased from $384 million in fiscal 2004 to $516 million in fiscal 2005. As a percentage of total net revenue, sales of Xbox products increased by 3 percent in fiscal 2005. The increase in net revenue was primarily due to the continued growth in the Xbox installed base driven by Microsofts price reductions in the U.S. in March 2004 and in Europe in August 2004, as well as the overall greater demand for our products. Nintendo GameCube Net revenue from Nintendo GameCube products increased from $200 million in fiscal 2004 to $212 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in net revenue was primarily due to growth in the installed base of the Nintendo GameCube. PC Net revenue from PC based products increased from $470 million in fiscal 2004 to $531 million in fiscal 2005. As a percentage of total net revenue, sales of PC products increased by 1 percent in fiscal 2005. The 49 Table of Contents increase in PC net revenue was primarily due to higher sales of products in The Sims, Lord of the Rings and Need for Speed franchises, partially offset by a decrease in sales of products in our Command and Conquertm and SimCitytm franchises. Mobility Net revenue from mobile products increased from $78 million in fiscal 2004 to $118 million in fiscal 2005. Mobile products include all mobile devices such as handhelds and cellular handsets. The increase in mobility net revenue was primarily due to the release of titles in conjunction with the launch of the Nintendo DS and PSP platforms in North America and Japan. Co Publishing and Distribution In fiscal 2005, net revenue from co publishing and distribution products decreased by $115 million to $283 million as compared to fiscal 2004. The decrease was primarily due to a significant decrease in the number of co publishing and distribution titles we released in fiscal 2005. We released six co publishing titles in fiscal 2005 as compared to 11 titles in fiscal 2004. Subscription Services In fiscal 2005, net revenue from subscription services products increased by $6 million to $55 million as compared to fiscal 2004. The increase in net revenue was primarily due to an increase in the number of paying subscribers to Club Pogo, partially offset by a decrease in subscription net revenue from Earth & Beyondtm and The Simstm Online subscription services. Licensing, Advertising and Other In fiscal 2005, net revenue from licensing, advertising and other products increased by $41 million to $74 million as compared to fiscal 2004. The increase was primarily due to licensing revenue related to the Nokia N Gage platform. Cost of Goods Sold Costs of goods sold for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2005 Revenue 2004 Revenue % Change $ 1,197 38.2% $ 1,103 37.3% 8.5% In fiscal 2005, cost of goods sold as a percentage of total net revenue increased 0.9 percent from 37.3 percent to 38.2 percent. As a percentage of total net revenue, the increase was primarily due to a 2.3 percent increase for: (1) pricing actions taken in both North America and Europe due to higher than anticipated channel inventory, (2) inventory related costs due to a one year rebate agreement across several titles, and (3) incremental costs incurred to produce our titles for the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP. In addition, warranty and online costs increased by 0.8 percent. Offsetting these increases was a decrease of 2.2 percent, primarily the result of lower co publishing and distribution royalties due to the lower mix of co publishing and distribution net revenue during the year ended March 31, 2005 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2005 Revenue 2004 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 391 13% $ 370 13% $ 21 6% 50 Table of Contents Marketing and sales expenses increased by 6 percent, but remained flat as a percentage of net revenue, in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 primarily due to: An increase of $21 million in headcount and facilities related expenses, both to help support the growth of our marketing and sales functions worldwide. An increase of $12 million in marketing related costs to support our fiscal 2005 releases. The increase in marketing and sales expenses was partially offset by the following: A decrease of $9 million in advertising expense for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. A decrease of $4 million in bonus expense for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $42 million and $45 million in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2005 Revenue 2004 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 221 7% $ 185 6% $ 36 19% General and administrative expenses increased by 19 percent, or 1 percent of net revenue, in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 primarily due to: An increase of $48 million in employee related costs primarily due to (1) charges taken in connection with certain employee related litigation matters and (2) an increase in headcount and other personnel related costs to help support our administrative functions worldwide. An increase of $20 million in professional and contracted services, such as Sarbanes Oxley compliance costs, business development expenses and legal fees, along with other costs to support our business. The increase in general and administrative expenses was partially offset by the following: A decrease of $17 million in facilities related expenses primarily due to accelerated depreciation on equipment and software that were replaced and due to write offs of assets that were taken out of service in fiscal 2004. A decrease of $8 million in bonus expense for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. A decrease of $8 million in our investment in strategic university relationships. Research and Development Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2005 Revenue 2004 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 633 20% $ 511 17% $ 122 24% Research and development expenses increased by 24 percent, or 3 percent of net revenue, in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 primarily due to: An increase of $103 million in personnel related costs resulting from a 30 percent increase in employee headcount primarily in our Canadian and European studios, which included $6 million of stock based employee compensation related to our acquisition of Criterion. These increases were partially offset by a $20 million reduction in bonus expense for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. 51 Table of Contents An increase of $19 million in external development expenses due to the development of new products with our co publishing partners and development costs for Renderware and mobile platforms. An increase of $18 million in facilities related expenses to help support the growth of our research and development functions worldwide. Acquired In process Technology Acquired in process technology charges for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2005 Revenue 2004 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 13 1% $ $ 13 N/M The acquired in process technology was the result of acquiring all outstanding shares of Criterion and an additional 44 percent of Digital Illusions C.E. (DICE) during the year ended March 31, 2005. Acquired in process technology includes the value of products in the development stage that are not considered to have reached technological feasibility or have alternative future use. Accordingly, the acquired in process technology was expensed in our Consolidated Statement of Operations upon consummation of these acquisitions. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2005 Revenue 2004 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 56 2% $ 21 1% $ 35 167% Interest and other income, net, in fiscal 2005 increased from fiscal 2004 primarily due to: An increase of $15 million in interest income, net, as a result of higher yields on higher average cash, cash equivalents and short term investments balances in fiscal 2005. An increase of $10 million due to gains on investments. An increase of $8 million due to a net gain from our foreign currency activities. Income Taxes Income taxes for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 were as follows (in millions): March 31, Effective March 31, Effective 2005 Tax Rate 2004 Tax Rate % Change $ 221 30.5% $ 220 27.5% Our effective income tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from significant operations outside the U.S., which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent. The effective income tax rate was 30.5 percent for fiscal 2005 and 27.5 percent for fiscal 2004. Our increased effective income tax rate in fiscal 2005 primarily reflects the fact that we resolved certain tax related matters with the Internal Revenue Service during fiscal 2004, which lowered our fiscal 2004 income tax expense by approximately $20 million and resulted in a 2.5 percent rate reduction. Additionally, adjustments related to certain tax audit developments, a change in valuation allowance, and non deductible acquisition related costs, partially offset by the geographic mix of taxable income subject to lower tax rates for fiscal 2005, increased our effective income tax rate in fiscal 2005. 52 Table of Contents Net Income Net income for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2005 Revenue 2004 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 504 16% $ 577 20% $ (73 ) (13% ) Reported net income decreased in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 primarily due to growth in our expenses, especially research and development, as we prepared for the adoption of next generation technology within our industry while at the same time we continued to devote resources to the development of products for current generation consoles. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing, to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage) and requires that those items be recognized as current period charges. SFAS No. 151 also requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 151 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payment. SFAS No. 123R requires that the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements using a fair value based method. The statement replaces SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, supersedes Accounting Principles Board No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and amends SFAS No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows. While the fair value method under SFAS No. 123R is similar to the fair value method under SFAS No. 123 with regards to measurement and recognition of stock based compensation, there are several key differences between the two standards. For example, SFAS No. 123 permits us to recognize forfeitures as they occur while SFAS No. 123R will require us to estimate future forfeitures and adjust our estimate on a quarterly basis. SFAS No. 123R will also require a classification change in the statement of cash flows, whereby a portion of the income tax benefit from stock options will move from operating cash flow activities to financing cash flow activities (total cash flows will remain unchanged). In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) released SAB No. 107, Share Based Payment, which provides the SECs views regarding the interaction between SFAS No. 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations for public companies. In April 2005, the SEC adopted a rule that amends the compliance dates of SFAS No. 123R. Under the revised compliance dates, we are required to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123R no later than our first quarter of fiscal 2007. The expensing of stock based compensation will have a material adverse impact on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and may not be similar to our pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123, as amended. In October 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 123(R) 2, Practical Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date As Defined in FASB Statement No. 123(R). The FASB provides companies with a practical accommodation when determining the grant date of an award subject to SFAS No. 123R. If (1) the award is a unilateral grant, that is, the recipient does not have the ability to negotiate the key terms and conditions of the award with the employer, (2) the key terms and conditions of the award are expected to be communicated to an individual recipient within a relatively short time period, and (3) as long as all other criteria in the grant date definition have been met, then a mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions of an award is presumed to exist at the date the award is approved. In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 123(R) 3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share Based Payment Awards. The FASB allows for a practical exception in calculating the additional paid in capital pool of excess tax benefits upon adoption that is available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized 53 Table of Contents subsequent to adoption SFAS No. 123R. Accordingly, we may adopt either the method prescribed under SFAS No. 123R or the one prescribed under FSP FAS No. 123(R) 3. We have not yet determined which method to adopt. In February 2006, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 123(R) 4, Classification of Options and Similar Instruments Issued As Employee Compensation That Allow for Cash Settlement upon the Occurrence of a Contingent Event, which amends certain paragraphs in SFAS No. 123R. FSP FAS No. 123(R) 4 addresses situations when a company has option plans that require the company to settle outstanding options in cash upon the occurrence of certain contingent events. Although we are required to apply FSP FAS No. 123(R) 4 when we initially adopt SFAS No. 123R, we do not expect it to impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections A Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3. SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Under previous guidance, changes in accounting principle were recognized as a cumulative effect in the net income of the period of the change. The new statement requires retrospective application of changes in accounting principle, limited to the direct effects of the change, to prior periods financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. Additionally, this Statement requires that a change in depreciation, amortization or depletion method for long lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate affected by a change in accounting principle and that correction of errors in previously issued financial statements should be termed a restatement. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not believe that, upon adoption, SFAS No. 154 will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, however, after adoption, if a change in accounting principle is made, SFAS No. 154 could have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. SFAS No. 155 (1) permits fair value measurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation, (2) clarifies that interest only strips and principal only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, (3) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation, (4) clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives, and (5) amends SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities A Replacement of FASB Statement 125 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special purpose entity from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument. SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. We do not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 155 will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Year Ended March 31, March 31, Increase/ 2006 2005 (Decrease) (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,242 $ 1,270 $ (28 ) Short term investments $ 1,030 $ 1,688 $ (658 ) Marketable equity securities 160 140 20 Total $ 2,432 $ 3,098 $ (666 ) Percentage of total assets 55 % 71 % 54 Table of Contents Year Ended March 31, March 31, Increase/ 2006 2005 (Decrease) (In millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 596 $ 634 $ (38 ) Cash used in investing activities (108 ) (1,726 ) 1,618 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (503 ) 200 (703 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (13 ) 12 (25 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (28 ) $ (880 ) $ 852 Changes in Cash Flow During fiscal 2006, we generated $596 million of cash from operating activities as compared to $634 million for fiscal 2005. The decrease in cash generated from operating activities was primarily due to our overall decline in net income resulting from a decrease in net revenue and an increase in operating expenses primarily to support the development of titles for next generation consoles. This decrease was partially offset by a lower accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2006 as compared to March 31, 2005, resulting from a higher percentage of net revenue recognized in the first two months of our fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, which allowed us to collect a higher percentage of our receivables prior to the end of the quarter. We expect cash from operating activities to decline in fiscal 2007. For fiscal 2006, our primary use of cash in non operating activities consisted of $755 million used to purchase short term investments, $709 million used to repurchase and retire a portion of our common stock, $661 million used primarily for our acquisition of JAMDAT, and $123 million in capital expenditures primarily related to the expansion of our Vancouver studio and investments in our worldwide development tools, technologies and equipment. These non operating expenditures were partially offset by $1,427 million in proceeds from the maturities and sales of short term investments and $206 million in proceeds from sales of common stock through our employee stock plans and other plans. During fiscal 2007, we anticipate making continued capital investments in our studios as well as investments in next generation consoles, online infrastructure and mobile platforms. Short term investments and marketable equity securities As of March 31, 2006, our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments was comprised of 55 percent cash and cash equivalents and 45 percent short term investments. As of March 31, 2005, 43 percent of our portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents and 57 percent of our portfolio consisted of short term investments. In absolute dollars, our cash and cash equivalents decreased from $1,270 million as of March 31, 2005 to $1,242 million as of March 31, 2006. This decrease was primarily due to our purchase of short term investments, our acquisition of JAMDAT, and our common stock repurchase program during the first six months of fiscal 2006. These decreases were partially offset by proceeds received from the maturities and sales of short term investments. Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short term interest rates. As of March 31, 2006, our short term investments included gross unrealized losses of approximately $7 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion of the gross unrealized losses. Marketable equity securities increased to $160 million as of March 31, 2006, from $140 million as of March 31, 2005, primarily due to an increase in the unrealized gain on our investment in Ubisoft Entertainment. 55 Table of Contents Receivables, net Our gross accounts receivable balances were $431 million and $458 million as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decrease in our accounts receivable balance was primarily due to a higher percentage of revenue recognized in the first two months of our fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, which allowed us to collect a higher percentage of our net revenue during the quarter. Reserves for sales returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts increased in absolute dollars from $162 million as of March 31, 2005 to $232 million as of March 31, 2006. As a percentage of trailing six and nine month net revenue, reserves increased from 8 percent and 6 percent, respectively, as of March 31, 2005, to 12 percent and 9 percent, respectively, as of March 31, 2006. The increase in these reserves was primarily the result of lower anticipated demand for our products and the continued decline in the average prices of our titles for current generation consoles due to the competitive retail environment. We believe these reserves are adequate based on historical experience and our current estimate of potential returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts. Inventories Inventories decreased slightly to $61 million as of March 31, 2006 from $62 million as of March 31, 2005. No single title represented more than $7 million of inventory as of March 31, 2006. Other current assets Other current assets increased to $234 million as of March 31, 2006, from $164 million as of March 31, 2005, primarily due to an increase in prepaid royalties as we continue to invest in our product development and content, as well as an increase in advertising credits owed to us by our vendors due to the timing of our claims. Accounts payable Accounts payable increased to $163 million as of March 31, 2006, from $134 million as of March 31, 2005, primarily due to higher sales volumes and higher expenditures to support our business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Accrued and other liabilities Our accrued and other liabilities increased to $706 million as of March 31, 2006 from $673 million as of March 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to liabilities related to our JAMDAT acquisition and an increase in deferred revenue. Deferred income taxes, net Our long term position of deferred income taxes changed by $48 million, from an asset position as of March 31, 2005 to a liability position as of March 31, 2006 primarily due to (1) a long term deferred tax liability we recorded in connection with our JAMDAT acquisition purchase accounting, and (2) the utilization of tax credits during fiscal 2006. Financial Condition We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable equity securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, potential future acquisitions or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. 56 Table of Contents The financing arrangements supporting our Redwood City headquarters leases with Keybank National Association, described in the Off Balance Sheet Commitments section below, are scheduled to expire in July 2007. Upon expiration of the financing, we may purchase the facilities for $247 million, request an extension of the financing (subject to bank approval), self fund approximately 90 percent of the financing and extend the remainder, or arrange for a sale of the facilities to a third party. In the event of a sale to a third party, if the sale price is less than $247 million, we will be obligated to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $247 million, up to maximum of $222 million, subject to certain provisions of the lease. A portion of our cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and marketable equity securities that was generated from operations domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions (approximately $692 million as of March 31, 2006) is designated as indefinitely reinvested in the respective tax jurisdiction. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, our CEO approved a domestic reinvestment plan, which was subsequently approved by our Board of Directors, to repatriate $375 million of foreign earnings in fiscal 2006 under the Jobs Act. We completed the repatriation in fiscal 2006 and resulted in a tax expense of $17 million related to this $375 million repatriation. On October 18, 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to an aggregate of $750 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the authorization, we repurchased shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market until we had completed our common stock repurchase program in September 2005. We repurchased and retired the following (in millions): Number of Shares Repurchased and Approximate Retired Amount From the inception of the program through March 31, 2005 0.8 $ 41 Six months ended September 30, 2005 12.6 709 From the inception of the program through September 30, 2005 13.4 $ 750 We have a shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings up to a total amount of $2.0 billion. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we will use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts and, if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products on new platforms and new versions of our products on existing platforms, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Letters of Credit In July 2002, we provided an irrevocable standby letter of credit to Nintendo of Europe, which we have amended on a number of occasions. The standby letter of credit, as amended, guarantees performance of our obligations to pay Nintendo of Europe for trade payables. As of March 31, 2006, the standby letter of credit, as amended, guaranteed our trade payable obligations to Nintendo of Europe for up to 7 million. 57 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2006, 2 million was payable to Nintendo of Europe under the standby letter of credit, as amended. In August 2003, we provided an irrevocable standby letter of credit to 300 California Associates II, LLC in replacement of our security deposit for office space. The standby letter of credit guarantees performance of our obligations to pay our lease commitment up to approximately $1 million. The standby letter of credit expires in December 2006. As of March 31, 2006, we did not have a payable balance on this standby letter of credit. Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non employee software developers (independent artists or third party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that are not dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation and UEFA (professional soccer); NASCAR and ISC (stock car racing); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR, Tiger Woods and Pebble Beach (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry Potter, Batman and Superman); New Line Productions and Saul Zaentz Company (The Lord of the Rings); Marvel Enterprises (fighting); National Football League Properties, Arena Football League and PLAYERS Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football, basketball and baseball); Simcoh (Def Jam); Viacom Consumer Products (The Godfather); Valve Corporation (Half Life); ESPN (content in EA SPORTStm games); Twentieth Century Fox Licensing and Merchandising (The Simpsons); Lamborghini, McLaren and Porsche (car licenses for Need for Speed); and mobile game rights with PopCap Games and The Tetris Company. These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non royalty bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. 58 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of March 31, 2006, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cashflow in future periods (in millions): Commercial Contractual Obligations Commitments Developer/ Letter of Credit, Licensor Other Purchase Bank and Other Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Leases(1) Commitments(2) Marketing Obligations Guarantees Total 2007 $ 36 $ 155 $ 45 $ 7 $ 4 $ 247 2008 28 144 30 202 2009 24 152 31 207 2010 18 140 31 189 2011 14 275 31 320 Thereafter 30 700 186 916 Total $ 150 $ 1,566 $ 354 $ 7 $ 4 $ 2,081 (1) See discussion on operating leases in the Off Balance Sheet Commitments section below for additional information. (2) Developer/licensor commitments include $9 million of commitments to developers or licensors that have been recorded in current and long term liabilities and a corresponding amount in current and long term assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2006 because payment is not contingent upon performance by the developer or licensor. The lease commitments disclosed above include contractual rental commitments of $25 million under real estate leases for unutilized office space resulting from our restructuring activities. These amounts, net of estimated future sub lease income, were expensed in the periods of the related restructuring and are included in our accrued and other current liabilities reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2006. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Transactions with Related Parties On June 24, 2002, we hired Warren Jenson as our Chief Financial and Administrative Officer and agreed to loan him $4 million to be forgiven over four years based on his continuing employment. The loan does not bear interest. On June 24, 2004, pursuant to the terms of the loan agreement, we forgave $2 million of the loan and provided Mr. Jenson approximately $1.6 million to offset the tax implications of the forgiveness. As of March 31, 2006, the remaining outstanding loan balance was $2 million, which will be forgiven on June 24, 2006, provided that Mr. Jenson has not voluntarily resigned his employment with us or been terminated for cause prior to that time. No additional funds will be provided to offset the tax implications of the forgiveness of the remaining $2 million. OFF BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Lease Commitments and Residual Value Guarantees We lease certain of our current facilities and equipment under non cancelable operating lease agreements. We are required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and will be required to pay any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. In February 1995, we entered into a build to suit lease (Phase One Lease) with a third party for our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California (Phase One Facilities). The Phase One Facilities comprise a total of approximately 350,000 square feet and provide space for sales, marketing, administration and research and development functions. In July 2001, we refinanced the Phase One Lease 59 Table of Contents with Keybank National Association through July 2006. We account for the Phase One Lease arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, as amended. On May 26, 2006, we extended the financing under the Phase One Lease through July 2007. Upon expiration of the financing in July 2007, we may purchase the Phase One Facilities, request up to two one year extensions of the financing (subject to bank approval), self fund approximately 90 percent of the financing and extend the remainder through July 2009, or arrange for the sale of the Phase One Facilities to a third party. The Phase One Lease terminates upon expiration of the financing in July 2007 unless we have extended the financing or elected to self fund the financing as described above, in which case the term of the lease could be extended until as late as July 2009. Subject to certain terms and conditions, upon termination of the lease, we may purchase the Phase One Facilities, request an extension of the lease or arrange for the sale of the Phase One Facilities to a third party. Pursuant to the terms of the Phase One Lease, as amended to date, we have an option to purchase the Phase One Facilities at any time for a maximum purchase price of $132 million. In the event of a sale to a third party, if the sale price is less than $132 million, we will be obligated to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $132 million, up to maximum of $117 million, subject to certain provisions of the Phase One Lease, as amended. In December 2000, we entered into a second build to suit lease (Phase Two Lease) with Keybank National Association for a five and one half year term beginning in December 2000 to expand our Redwood City, California headquarters facilities and develop adjacent property (Phase Two Facilities). Construction of the Phase Two Facilities was completed in June 2002. The Phase Two Facilities comprise a total of approximately 310,000 square feet and provide space for sales, marketing, administration and research and development functions. We account for the Phase Two Lease arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, as amended. On May 26, 2006, we extended the financing under the Phase Two Lease through July 2007. Upon the expiration of the financing in July 2007, we may purchase the Phase Two Facilities, request up to two one year extensions of the financing (subject to bank approval), self fund approximately 90 percent of the financing and extend the remainder through July 2009, or arrange for the sale of the Phase Two Facilities to a third party. The Phase Two Lease terminates upon expiration of the financing in July 2007 unless we have extended the financing or elected to self fund the financing as described above, in which case the term of the lease could be extended until as late as July 2009. Subject to certain terms and conditions, upon termination of the lease, we may purchase the Phase Two Facilities, request an extension of the lease or arrange for the sale of the Phase Two Facilities to a third party. Pursuant to the terms of the Phase Two Lease, as amended to date, we have an option to purchase the Phase Two Facilities at any time for a maximum purchase price of $115 million. In the event of a sale to a third party, if the sale price is less than $115 million, we will be obligated to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $115 million, up to a maximum of $105 million, subject to certain provisions of the Phase Two Lease, as amended. The lease rates of the Phase One and Phase Two Leases fluctuate and are based upon LIBOR plus a margin that varies from 0.50% to 1.25% based on our ratio of total consolidated debt to consolidated tangible net worth. Based on the 3 month LIBOR rate of 5.2% as of May 26, 2006, the annual rent obligation of the two leases would total approximately $14 million. Our rent obligation under the leases could increase or decrease significantly depending on changes in LIBOR. The Phase One and Phase Two Leases require us to comply with certain financial covenants as shown below, all of which we were in compliance with as of March 31, 2006. In the event we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the leases, the lessor would have a number of remedies, including the right to keep the leases in effect and suing for periodic rent, evicting us from the facilities, or 60 Table of Contents causing the facilities to be sold to a third party. In the event of a sale to a third party, we would be required to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $247 million, up to a total maximum of $222 million. Alternatively, in order to avoid being evicted or having the two facilities sold to a third party, we could elect to purchase the Phase One and Phase Two Facilities for a combined maximum purchase price of $247 million. We believe that, as of March 31, 2006, the estimated fair values of both properties under these operating leases exceeded their respective guaranteed residual values of $117 million for the Phase One Facility and $105 million for the Phase Two Facility as of March 31, 2006. Actual as of Financial Covenants Requirement March 31, 2006 Consolidated Net Worth (in millions) equal to or greater than $ 2,293 $ 3,408 Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio equal to or greater than 3.00 8.89 Total Consolidated Debt to Capital equal to or less than 60 % 6.8 % Quick Ratio Q1 & Q2 equal to or greater than 1.00 N/A Q3 & Q4 equal to or greater than 1.75 5.92 In February 2006, we entered into an agreement with an independent third party to lease a studio facility in Guildford, Surrey, United Kingdom, which will commence in June 2006 and will expire in May 2016. The facility comprises a total of approximately 95,000 square feet, which we intend to use for research and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is approximately $33 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. In June 2004, we entered into a lease agreement, amended in December 2005, with an independent third party for a studio facility in Orlando, Florida. The lease commenced in January 2005 and expires in June 2010, with one five year option to extend the lease term. The campus facilities comprise a total of 140,000 square feet and provide space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation over the initial five and a half year term of the lease is $15 million. As of March 31, 2006, our remaining rental obligation under this lease was $14 million. In July 2003, we entered into a lease agreement with an independent third party (the Landlord) for a studio facility in Los Angeles, California, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013 with two five year options to extend the lease term. Additionally, we have options to purchase the property after five and ten years based on the fair market value of the property at the date of sale, a right of first offer to purchase the property upon terms offered by the Landlord, and a right to share in the profits from a sale of the property. We have accounted for this arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, as amended. Existing campus facilities comprise a total of 243,000 square feet and provide space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is $50 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. This commitment is offset by expected sublease income of $6 million for a sublease to an affiliate of the Landlord of 18,000 square feet of the Los Angeles facility, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013, with options of early termination by the affiliate after five years and by us after four and five years. As of March 31, 2006, our remaining rental obligation under this lease was $43 million, of which $5 million was offset by expected sublease income. In October 2002, we entered into a lease agreement, with an independent third party for a studio facility in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, which commenced in May 2003 and expires in April 2013. We amended the lease in October 2003. The facility comprises a total of approximately 65,000 square feet and provides space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is approximately $16 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. As of March 31, 2006, our remaining rental obligation under this lease was $12 million. 61 Table of Contents Litigation On February 14, 2005, an employment related class action lawsuit, Hasty v. Electronic Arts Inc., was filed against the company in Superior Court in San Mateo, California. The complaint alleges that we improperly classified Engineers in California as exempt employees and seeks injunctive relief, unspecified monetary damages, interest and attorneys fees. On May 16, 2006, the court granted its preliminary approval of a settlement pursuant to which we agreed to make a lump sum payment of $14.9 million, to be paid to a third party administrator, to cover (a) all claims allegedly suffered by the class members, (b) plaintiffs attorneys fees, not to exceed 25% of the total settlement amount, (c) plaintiffs costs and expenses, (d) any incentive payments to the named plaintiffs that may be authorized by the court, and (e) all costs of administration of the settlement. The hearing for the court to consider its final approval of the settlement is set for September 22, 2006. Each of the shareholder actions we have previously disclosed have been voluntarily dismissed by all plaintiffs. The federal securities class action complaint has been dismissed with prejudice, by an order dated January 26, 2006; the federal derivative action has been dismissed, by an order dated March 10, 2006; and the two state derivative actions have been dismissed, by orders dated May 4, 2006 and May 8, 2006. In addition, we are subject to other claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that any liability from any reasonably foreseeable disposition of such other claims and litigation, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Director Indemnity Agreements We have entered into indemnification agreements with the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. INFLATION We believe the impact of inflation on our results of operations has not been significant for each of the past three fiscal years. Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk We are exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and market prices. Market risk is the potential loss arising from changes in market rates and market prices. We employ established policies and practices to manage these risks. Foreign currency option and foreign exchange forward contracts are used to either hedge anticipated exposures or mitigate some existing exposures subject to market risk. We do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report). Interest rate risk is the potential loss arising from changes in interest rates. We do not consider our cash and cash equivalents to be exposed to significant interest rate risk because our portfolio consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report). Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk From time to time, we hedge some of our foreign currency risk related to forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and expense transactions by purchasing option contracts that generally have maturities of 15 months or less. These transactions are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The derivative 62 Table of Contents assets associated with our hedging activities are recorded at fair value in other current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity and subsequently reclassified into net revenue or operating expenses, as appropriate in the period when the forecasted transaction is recorded. The ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reported in each period in interest and other income, net in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements in revenue and operating expenses. As of March 31, 2006, we had no foreign currency option contracts outstanding. As of March 31, 2005, we had foreign currency option contracts outstanding with a total fair value of $1 million included in other current assets. We utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, primarily intercompany receivables and payables. The forward contracts generally have a contractual term of approximately one month and are transacted near month end. Therefore, the fair value of the forward contracts generally is not significant at each month end. Our foreign exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133 and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts are reported as other current assets or other current liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet, and gains and losses from changes in fair value are reported in interest and other income, net. The gains and losses on these forward contracts generally offset the gains and losses on the underlying foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, which are also reported in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. As of March 31, 2006, we had forward foreign exchange contracts to purchase and sell approximately $161 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $132 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $14 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for British pound sterling and $15 million to purchase foreign currency in exchange for U.S. dollars. As of March 31, 2005 we had forward foreign exchange contracts to purchase and sell approximately $425 million of foreign currencies. Of this amount, $379 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $22 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for British pound sterling and $24 million to purchase foreign currency in exchange for U.S. dollars. The fair value of our forward contracts was immaterial as of March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2005. The counterparties to these forward and option contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks. The risks of counterparty nonperformance associated with these contracts are not considered to be material. Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurances that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. As of March 31, 2006, we had no foreign currency option contracts outstanding. As of March 31, 2005, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would not have resulted in a material loss in fair value of our option contracts under either scenario. However, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would result in potential losses on our forward contracts of $16 million and $23 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2006, and $40 million and $61 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2005. This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift in foreign currency exchange rates, which do not always move in the same direction. Actual results may differ materially. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our short term investment portfolio. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities. Additionally, the contractual terms of the securities do not permit the issuer to call, prepay or otherwise settle the securities at prices less than the stated par value of the securities. Our investments are held for purposes other than trading. Also, we do not use derivative financial instruments or leverage in our short term investment portfolio. 63 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2006 and 2005, our short term investments were classified as available for sale and, consequently, recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in stockholders equity. Our portfolio of short term investments consisted of the following investment categories, summarized by fair value as of March 31, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): As of March 31, 2006 2005 U.S. agency securities $ 575 $ 1,168 U.S. Treasury securities 212 298 Corporate bonds 178 180 Asset backed and other debt securities 65 42 Total short term investments $ 1,030 $ 1,688 Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. At any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2006, arising from potential changes in interest rates. The modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. Valuation of Securities Given an Interest Fair Value Valuation of Securities Given an Interest Rate Increase of X Basis Points as of Rate Increase of X Basis Points (In millions) March 31, (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 2006 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS U.S. agency securities $ 581 $ 579 $ 577 $ 575 $ 573 $ 571 $ 570 U.S. Treasury securities 218 216 214 212 210 208 205 Corporate bonds 182 181 179 178 176 175 173 Asset backed and other debt securities 66 66 66 65 65 65 65 Total short term investments $ 1,047 $ 1,042 $ 1,036 $ 1,030 $ 1,024 $ 1,019 $ 1,013 The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2005, arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. Valuation of Securities Given an Interest Fair Value Valuation of Securities Given an Interest Rate Decrease of X Basis Points as of Rate Increase of X Basis Points (In millions) March 31, (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 2005 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS U.S. agency securities $ 1,177 $ 1,175 $ 1,172 $ 1,168 $ 1,162 $ 1,156 $ 1,151 U.S. Treasury securities 306 303 300 298 295 293 290 Corporate bonds 185 184 182 180 178 177 175 Asset backed securities 44 43 43 42 42 41 41 Total short term investments $ 1,712 $ 1,705 $ 1,697 $ 1,688 $ 1,677 $ 1,667 $ 1,657 Market Price Risk The value of our equity investments in publicly traded companies are subject to market price volatility. As of March 31, 2006, our marketable equity securities were classified as available for sale and, consequently, were recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses 64 Table of Contents reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in stockholders equity. The fair value of our marketable equity securities was $160 million and $140 million as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At any time, a sharp change in market prices in our investments in marketable equity securities could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2006, arising from changes in market prices plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent and 75 percent. Valuation of Securities Given an Valuation of Securities Given an X Percentage Decrease in Each Fair Value X Percentage Increase in Each Stocks Market Price as of Stocks Market Price (In millions) March 31, (75%) (50%) (25%) 2006 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 40 $ 80 $ 120 $ 160 $ 200 $ 240 $ 280 The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2005, arising from changes in market prices plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent and 75 percent. Valuation of Securities Given an Valuation of Securities Given an X Percentage Decrease in Each Fair Value X Percentage Increase in Each Stocks Market Price as of Stocks Market Price (In millions) March 31, (75%) (50%) (25%) 2005 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 35 $ 70 $ 105 $ 140 $ 175 $ 210 $ 246 65 Table of Contents 
 
