Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW The following overview is a top level discussion of our operating results as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10 K, including in the Business section and the Risk Factors above, the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute interactive software games that are playable by consumers on video game consoles (such as the Sony PlayStation 2 and PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii), personal computers, mobile platforms (including cellular handsets and handheld game players such as the PlayStation Portable (PSP) and the Nintendo DS) and online (over the Internet and other proprietary online networks). Some of our games are based on content that we license from others (e.g., Madden NFL Football, The Godfather and FIFA Soccer), and some of our games are based on our own wholly owned intellectual property (e.g., The Sims and Need for Speed). Our goal is to publish titles with mass market appeal, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in non English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game franchises that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property. Examples of this franchise approach are the annual iterations of our sports based products (e.g., Madden NFL Football, NCAA Football and FIFA Soccer), wholly owned properties that can be successfully sequeled (e.g., The Sims, Need for Speed and Battlefield) and titles based on long lived literary and or movie properties (e.g., Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter). Overview of Financial Results Total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 was $3.091 billion, up 5 percent as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 was driven by sales of Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, FIFA 07, The Sims 2 Pets, and NCAA Football 07. Four titles sold more than five million units in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, FIFA 07, and The Sims 2 Pets. Net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 was $76 million as compared to $236 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Diluted net income per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 was $0.24 as compared to $0.75 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Although net revenue increased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006, net income decreased due to an increase in our operating expenses as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS No. 123(R)), Share Based Payment, an increase in our annual bonus expense and an increase in additional personnel related costs due to an increase in headcount. These increases were further mitigated by a decrease in our income tax provision. We generated $397 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended March 31, 2007, as compared to $596 million for fiscal 2006. The decrease in cash generated from operating activities was primarily due to the timing of the collection of our receivables as a result of collecting a greater amount of our receivables during fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2007. Stock Based Compensation. Beginning in fiscal 2007, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) which requires us to recognize the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions in our financial statements using a fair value based method. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes our stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, restricted stock, restricted 28 Table of Contents stock units and our employee stock purchase plan included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): Year Ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Cost of goods sold $ 2 $ $ Marketing and sales 17 General and administrative 37 1 Research and development 77 2 6 Stock based compensation expense 133 3 6 Benefit from income taxes (26 ) (1 ) (2 ) Stock based compensation expense, net of tax $ 107 $ 2 $ 4 As of March 31, 2007, our total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options was $153 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average service period of 1.6 years. As of March 31, 2007, our total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock and restricted stock units (collectively referred to as restricted stock rights) was $82 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average service period of 2.3 years. Managements Overview of Historical and Prospective Business Trends Transition to A New Generation of Consoles. Video game hardware systems have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical as well. Microsoft launched the Xbox 360 in November 2005, while Sony and Nintendo launched the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii, respectively, in November 2006. We have continued to develop and market new titles for prior generation video game systems such as the PlayStation 2 while also making significant investments in products for the new systems. As the prior generation systems reach the end of their life cycle and the installed base of the new systems continues to grow, our sales of video games for prior generation systems will continue to decline as (1) we produce fewer titles for prior generation systems, (2) consumers replace their prior generation systems with the new systems, and or (3) consumers reduce game software purchases for certain prior generation consoles generally, for example, until they are able to purchase a new video game hardware system. This decline in prior generation product sales could ultimately be greater than we anticipate, and sales of products for the new platforms may be lower than we anticipate. Moreover, we expect development costs for the new video game systems to be greater on a per title basis than development costs for prior generation video game systems. We have incurred increased costs during this transition as we have continued to develop and market new titles for certain prior generation video game platforms while also making significant investments in products for the new generation platforms. As we move through the life cycle of prior generation consoles, we will continue to devote significant resources to the development of prior generation titles while at the same time spending more for the new generation of platforms and technology. As a result of these factors, we expect research and development expenses to increase in fiscal 2008. Investment in Online. Today, we generate net revenue from a variety of online products and services, including casual games and downloadable content marketed under our Pogo brand, persistent state world games such as Ultima Online and Dark Age of Camelot, PC based downloadable content and online enabled packaged goods. As the nature of online game offerings expands and evolves, we anticipate long term opportunities for growth in this area. For example, we expect that consumers will take advantage of the online connectivity of the new generation of consoles at a much higher rate than they have on prior generation consoles, allowing more consumers to enhance their gameplay experience through multiplayer activity, community building and downloading content. We plan to increase the amount of content available for download on the PC, consoles and cell phones, increase the number of games with dynamic in game advertising and to increase the number of PC based games that can be downloaded digitally. In addition, we plan to expand our casual game offerings internationally and to invest in growing genres such as mid session 29 Table of Contents games. To further enhance our online offerings, we acquired Mythic, a developer and publisher of massively multiplayer online role playing games, in July 2006. We intend to make significant investments in online products, infrastructure and services and believe that online gameplay will become an increasingly important part of our business in the long term. Significantly Increased Deferred Revenue for Online Enabled Games. The ubiquity of high speed Internet access and the integration of network connectivity into new generation game consoles are expected to increase demand for games with online enabled features. To address this demand, many of our software products are developed with the ability to be connected to and played via the Internet. In order for consumers to participate in online communities and play against one another via the Internet, we (or through outsourced arrangements with third parties) have servers which support the various online services we provide to consumers such as matchmaking, roster updates, tournaments and player rankings. In situations where we do not separately sell these online services, we consider the sale of the software product as a bundle sale or multiple element arrangement in which we sell both the software product and the online service for one combined price. Through fiscal 2007, for accounting purposes, vendor specific objective evidence of fair value existed for the online service. Accordingly, we allocated the revenue collected from the sale of the software product between the online service and the software product and recognized the amounts allocated to each element separately. However, starting in fiscal 2008, for accounting purposes, the required vendor specific objective evidence of fair value will not exist for the online services. This will prevent us from allocating and recognizing revenue related to the software product and the online services separately. Accordingly, we will begin to recognize all of the revenue from the sale of our online enabled software products related to the PC, PlayStation 2, PLAYSTATION 3 and the PSP platforms over the estimated online service period (currently expected to be recognized over six months after the month of sale). We anticipate that, in fiscal 2008, we will likely defer approximately $400 to $500 million in net revenue from the sale of these online enabled software products into fiscal 2009. On a quarterly basis, this amount will vary significantly depending upon the timing of the release of the online enabled software product and the sales volume of such products. In addition, we will expense the cost of goods sold related to these transactions when delivered. As of March 31, 2007, deferred net revenue related to packaged goods and digital content (i.e., content delivered to the consumer via the Internet including (1) digital downloads and (2) certain incremental content related to our core subscription services playable only online, which are types of micro transactions) was $23 million. Expansion of Mobile Platforms. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving platforms for on the go interactive entertainment that appeal to a broader demographic of consumers. Our efforts to capitalize on the growth in mobile interactive entertainment are focused in two broad areas packaged goods games for handheld game systems and downloadable games for cellular handsets. We have developed and published games for a variety of handheld platforms, including the Nintendo Game Boy and Game Boy Advance, for several years. The introductions of the Sony PSP and the Nintendo DS, with their enhanced graphics, deeper gameplay, and online functionality, provide a richer mobile gaming experience for consumers. We expect sales of games for cellular handsets to continue to be an increasingly important part of our business worldwide. To accelerate our position in this growing segment, in February 2006, we acquired JAMDAT Mobile Inc., a global publisher of wireless games and other wireless entertainment applications. As a result of this acquisition, our net revenue from games for cellular handsets increased significantly in fiscal 2007 as compared to prior years. Likewise, the acquisition, along with the additional investment required to grow this portion of our business globally, resulted in increased license royalties, development and operating expenses in fiscal 2007. As mobile technology continues to evolve and the installed base of both handheld game systems and game enabled cellular phones continues to expand, we anticipate that sales of our titles for mobile platforms for both handhelds and cellular handsets will become an increasingly important part of our business. Acquisitions, Investments and Strategic Transactions. We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including (1) acquisitions of 30 Table of Contents companies, businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets, and (2) investments in new interactive entertainment businesses, such as online and mobile games. In May 2007, we announced that we entered into a licensing agreement with and expect to make a strategic equity investment in The9 Limited, a leading online game operator in China, on or around May 29, 2007. The licensing agreement gives The9 exclusive publishing rights for EA SPORTS FIFA Online in mainland China. In April 2007, we expanded our commercial agreements with and made strategic equity investments in Neowiz Corporation and its online gaming subsidiary, Neowiz Games. Based in Korea, Neowiz is an online media and gaming company with which we partnered in 2006 to launch EA Sports FIFA Online in Korea. In October 2006, the remaining outstanding shares of Digital Illusions C.E. (DICE) were purchased, thereby completing the acquisition of the remaining minority interest of DICE. In July 2006, we acquired Mythic as part of our efforts to accelerate our growth in the massively multiplayer online role playing market. In fiscal 2007, we also acquired SingShot Media, a San Francisco based online karaoke community, as well as substantially all of the assets of Headgate Studios, a Utah based developer with which we had partnered since 2000 to develop certain EA franchises, and Phenomic Game Development, a developer of Real Time Strategy games based in Germany. In fiscal 2006, we acquired JAMDAT as part of our efforts to accelerate our growth in mobile gaming. International Expansion. We expect international sales to remain a fundamental part of our business. As part of our international expansion strategy, we may seek to partner with established local companies through acquisitions, joint ventures, minority investments or other similar arrangements. We are planning to expand our development and business activities internationally. We believe that in order to succeed internationally, it is important to locally develop content that is specifically directed toward local cultures and consumers. As such, we expect to continue to devote resources to hiring local development talent and expanding our infrastructure. Sales of Hit Titles. Sales of hit titles, several of which were top sellers in a number of countries, contributed significantly to our net revenue in fiscal 2007. Our top selling titles across all platforms worldwide during the year ended March 31, 2007 were Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, FIFA 07, The Sims 2 Pets and NCAA Football 07. Hit titles are important to our financial performance because they benefit from overall economies of scale. We have developed, and it is our objective to continue to develop, many of our hit titles to become franchise titles that can be regularly iterated. Increasing Licensing Costs. We generate a significant portion of our net revenue and operating income from games based on licensed content, such as FIFA Soccer. We have recently entered into new licenses and renewed older licenses, some of which may contain higher royalty rates or guarantees than similar license agreements we have entered into in the past. We believe these licenses, and the product franchises they support, will continue to be important to our future operations, but the higher costs of these licenses will negatively impact our gross margins. Foreign Currency Exchange Impact. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 46 percent of our total net revenue during both fiscal 2007 and 2006. Our international net revenue was primarily driven by sales in Europe and, to a much lesser extent, in Asia. Year over year, foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact on our net revenue of $53 million, or 2 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2007. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. 31 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We principally derive revenue from sales of interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs and mobile platforms including handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP, Nintendo DS and Nintendo Game Boy Advance) and cellular handsets. We evaluate the recognition of revenue based on the criteria set forth in Statement of Position (SOP) 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98 9, Modification of SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions and Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, Revenue Recognition. We evaluate revenue recognition using the following basic criteria and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement. Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products must be present in order to recognize revenue. Delivery. Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. For online game services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided. Fixed or determinable fee. If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable. We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection). Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. For example, for multiple element arrangements, we must make assumptions and judgments in order to: (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services; (3) determine whether vendor specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) exists for each undelivered element; and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver. Changes to any of these assumptions or judgments, or changes to the elements in a software arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. For example, some of our packaged goods products are sold with online services. Prior to, and through fiscal 2007, we had been able to determine VSOE for the online services to be delivered; therefore, we have been able to allocate the total price received from the combined product and online service sale between these two elements and recognize the related revenue separately. However, starting in fiscal 2008, VSOE will not exist for the online services to be delivered for certain platforms and all revenue from these transactions will be recognized over the estimated online service period. More specifically, we will begin to recognize the revenue from sales of certain online enabled packaged goods on a straight line basis over six months after the month of sale. Accordingly, this relatively small change (from having VSOE for online hosting services to no longer having VSOE) will have a significant effect on our reported results. Determining whether a transaction constitutes an online game service transaction or a download of a product requires judgment and can be difficult. The accounting for these transactions is significantly different. Revenue from product downloads is recognized when the download occurs (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). Revenue from online game services is recognized as the services are rendered. If the service period is not defined, we recognize the revenue over the estimated service period. Determining the estimated service period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors (channel partners), is recognized when the above criteria are met. We reduce product revenue for estimated future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. In certain countries, we have stock balancing programs for our PC and video game system products, which allow for the exchange of these 32 Table of Contents products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange products or give credits rather than to give cash refunds. In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for both our PC and video game system products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell through of distributor and retailer inventory of our products, current trends in retail and the video game segment, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing products. For example, the risk of product returns and or price protection for our products may continue to increase as the PlayStation 2 console moves through its lifecycle. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates changed, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our reported total net revenue. Significant judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of product. Royalty based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty based obligations are generally expensed to cost of goods sold generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on expected net product sales. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally amortized to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of goods sold. 33 Table of Contents Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Minimum royalty payment obligations are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next twelve months. As of March 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately $9 million of minimum guaranteed royalty obligations had been recognized in each period. Each quarter, we also evaluate the future realization of our royalty based assets as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments determined post launch are charged to cost of goods sold. In either case, we rely on estimated revenue to evaluate the future realization of prepaid royalties and commitments. If actual sales or revised revenue estimates fall below the initial revenue estimate, then the actual charge taken may be greater in any given quarter than anticipated. We had no impairments during fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, we recorded impairment charges of $16 million and $8 million, respectively. Valuation of Long Lived Assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets We evaluate both purchased intangible assets and other long lived assets in order to determine if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in value exists. This evaluation requires us to estimate, among other things, the remaining useful lives of the assets and future cash flows of the business. These evaluations and estimates require the use of judgment. Our actual results could differ materially from our current estimates. Under current accounting standards, we make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets and other long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management makes various assumptions about the future value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated cash flows. Our future net cash flows are primarily dependent on the sale of products for play on proprietary video game consoles, handheld game players, PCs, and cellular handsets (platforms). The sales of our products are affected by our ability to accurately predict which platforms and which products we develop will be successful. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. Due to product sales shortfalls, we may not realize the future net cash flows necessary to recover our long lived assets, which may result in an impairment charge being recorded in the future. We recognized an insignificant amount of impairment in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets requires at least an annual assessment for impairment of goodwill by applying a fair value based test. A two step approach is required to test goodwill for impairment for each reporting unit. The first step tests for impairment by applying fair value based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value based tests to individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology which requires significant judgment to estimate the future cash flows, determine the appropriate discount rates, growth rates and other assumptions. The determination of fair value for each reporting unit could be materially affected by changes in these estimates and assumptions which could trigger impairment. In fiscal 2007, we completed the first step of the annual goodwill impairment testing as of January 1, 2007 and found no indicators of impairment of our recorded goodwill. We did not recognize an impairment loss on goodwill in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. Future impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings and there is a potential for a write down of goodwill in connection with the annual impairment test. 34 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation On April 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) and applied the provisions of SAB No. 107, Share Based Payment, on our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) requires that the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements using a fair value based method. We elected to use the modified prospective transition method of adoption. SFAS No. 123(R) requires us to measure compensation cost for all outstanding unvested stock based awards made to our employees and directors based on estimated fair values and recognize compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. We recognized $133 million of stock based compensation related to employee stock options, restricted stock units, restricted stock awards and our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. We recognized $3 million of stock based compensation related to employee restricted stock units, stock options assumed in connection with our acquisition of JAMDAT and non employee stock options during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. We recognized $6 million of stock based compensation related to stock options assumed in connection with our acquisition of Criterion Software Group Ltd. and non employee stock options and warrants during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. For options and ESPP, we use the Black Scholes option valuation model to determine the grant date fair value. The Black Scholes option valuation model requires us to make certain assumptions about the future. The determination of fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding subjective and complex variables such as expected employee exercise behavior and our expected stock price volatility over the term of the award. Generally, our assumptions are based on historical information and judgment is required to determine if historical trends may be indicators of future outcomes. We estimated the following key assumptions for the Black Scholes valuation calculation: Risk free interest rate. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the option. Expected volatility. We use our historical stock price volatility and consider the implied volatility computed based on the price of short term options publicly traded on our common stock for our expected volatility assumption. Expected term. The expected term represents the weighted average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding. The expected term is determined based on historical exercise behavior, post vesting termination patterns, options outstanding and future expected exercise behavior. Expected dividends. As required by SFAS No. 123(R), employee stock based compensation expense recognized in fiscal 2007 was calculated based on awards ultimately expected to vest and has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates and an adjustment will be recognized at that time. Changes to our underlying stock price, our assumptions used in the Black Scholes option valuation calculation and our forfeiture rate as well as future grants of equity could significantly impact compensation expense to be recognized in fiscal 2008 and future periods. Income Taxes In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our current tax exposures in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues, require extended periods of time to resolve, and require us to make judgments, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. We are also required to make determinations of the need to record deferred tax liabilities and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance is 35 Table of Contents established to the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely based on our estimation of future taxable income in each jurisdiction. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. As with fiscal 2007, we expect our effective tax rate to be unusually volatile and subject to significant fluctuation. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 or 53 week period that, historically, ended on the final Saturday of March in each year. Beginning with the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. As a result, fiscal 2006 contained 53 weeks with the first quarter containing 14 weeks. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 contain the following number of weeks: Fiscal Year Ended Number of Weeks Fiscal Period End Date March 31, 2008 52 weeks March 29, 2008 March 31, 2007 52 weeks March 31, 2007 March 31, 2006 53 weeks April 1, 2006 March 31, 2005 52 weeks March 26, 2005 For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Beginning in fiscal 2007, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) and applied the provisions of SAB No. 107 to our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). We elected to use the modified prospective transition method of adoption which requires that compensation expense be recognized in the financial statements for all awards granted after the date of adoption as well as for existing awards for which the requisite service has not been rendered as of the date of adoption. Accordingly, prior periods are not restated for the effect of SFAS No. 123(R). Prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), we valued our stock options based on the multiple award valuation method and recognized the expense using the accelerated approach over the requisite service period. In conjunction with our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), we changed our method of recognizing our stock based compensation expense to the straight line approach over the requisite service period; however, we continue to value our stock options based on the multiple award valuation method. Prior to fiscal 2007, we accounted for stock based awards to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and adopted the disclosure only provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended. Also, as required by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, we provided pro forma net income and net income per common share disclosures for stock based awards as if the fair value based method defined in SFAS No. 123 had been applied. As a result, prior periods are not restated for the effect of SFAS No. 123(R). Pre tax stock based compensation expense for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $133 million, $3 million and $6 million, respectively. Comparison of Fiscal 2007 to Fiscal 2006 Net Revenue We derive net revenue principally from sales of interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PlayStation 2, PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs and handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP, Nintendo DS and Nintendo Game Boy Advance) and cellular handsets. We also derive net revenue from selling services in connection with some of our online games, programming third party web 36 Table of Contents sites with our game content, allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and selling advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase / % 2007 2006 (Decrease) Change North America $ 1,666 54 % $ 1,584 54 % $ 82 5 % Europe 1,261 41 % 1,174 40 % 87 7 % Asia 164 5 % 193 6 % (29 ) (15 %) International 1,425 46 % 1,367 46 % 58 4 % Total Net Revenue $ 3,091 100 % $ 2,951 100 % $ 140 5 % North America For fiscal 2007, net revenue in North America was $1,666 million, driven primarily by (1) our packaged goods business led by sales of Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, and NCAA Football 07, and (2) to a lesser extent, growth in our cellular handset games business resulting from our February 2006 acquisition of JAMDAT. Overall, net revenue increased $82 million, or 5 percent, as compared to fiscal 2006. The increase in net revenue for fiscal 2007, as compared to fiscal 2006 was driven primarily by (1) a $95 million increase in cellular handset net revenue, and (2) a $43 million increase in catalog(a) net revenue. These increases were partially offset by a $79 million decrease in frontline(b) net revenue. (a) We refer to catalog net revenue as net revenue derived from an EA Studio SKU (a version of a title designed for play on a particular platform) for consoles, PC, PSP, Nintendo DS, and Game Boy Advance subsequent to the fiscal period presented in which the SKU was initially launched. (b) We refer to frontline net revenue as net revenue derived from an EA Studio SKU for consoles, PC, PSP, Nintendo DS, and Game Boy Advance during the same fiscal period presented as the SKU was launched. Europe For fiscal 2007, net revenue in Europe was $1,261 million, driven primarily by sales of FIFA 07 and Need for Speed Carbon. Overall, net revenue increased $87 million, or 7 percent, as compared to fiscal 2006. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro and the British pound sterling) increased reported European net revenue by approximately $57 million, or 5 percent, for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that European net revenue increased by approximately $30 million, or 2 percent, for fiscal 2007. The increase in net revenue for fiscal 2007, as compared to fiscal 2006 was driven primarily by (1) a $64 million increase in catalog net revenue, and (2) a $25 million increase in cellular handset net revenue. These increases were partially offset by a $7 million decrease in frontline net revenue. Asia For fiscal 2007, net revenue in Asia was $164 million, driven primarily by sales of Need for Speed Carbon. Overall, net revenue decreased by $29 million, or 15 percent, as compared to fiscal 2006. The decrease in net revenue for fiscal 2007 was driven primarily by (1) a $21 million decrease in co publishing and distribution net revenue, and (2) a $20 million decrease in frontline net revenue. These decreases were partially offset by a $13 million increase in catalog net revenue. We estimate that changes in foreign exchange rates decreased reported net revenue in Asia by approximately $4 million, or 2 percent, for fiscal 2007. Excluding the effect 37 Table of Contents of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that Asia net revenue decreased by approximately $25 million, or 13 percent, for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. Our total net revenue by platform for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase/ % 2007 2006 (Decrease) Change Consoles PlayStation 2 $ 886 29 % $ 1,127 38 % $ (241 ) (21 %) Xbox 360 480 15 % 140 5 % 340 243 % Xbox 157 5 % 400 13 % (243 ) (61 %) PLAYSTATION 3 94 3 % 94 N/M Wii 65 2 % 65 N/M Nintendo GameCube 60 2 % 135 5 % (75 ) (56 %) Other Consoles 1 (1 ) (100 %) Total Consoles 1,742 56 % 1,803 61 % (61 ) (3 %) PC 498 16 % 418 14 % 80 19 % Mobility PSP 258 8 % 252 9 % 6 2 % Cellular Handsets 140 6 % 19 1 % 121 637 % Nintendo DS 104 3 % 67 2 % 37 55 % Game Boy Advance 38 1 % 55 2 % (17 ) (31 %) Total Mobility 540 18 % 393 14 % 147 37 % Co publishing and Distribution 175 6 % 213 7 % (38 ) (18 %) Internet Services, Licensing and Other Subscription Services 79 2 % 61 2 % 18 30 % Licensing, Advertising and Other 57 2 % 63 2 % (6 ) (10 %) Total Internet Services, Licensing and Other 136 4 % 124 4 % 12 10 % Total Net Revenue $ 3,091 100 % $ 2,951 100 % $ 140 5 % PlayStation 2 For fiscal 2007, net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2 was $886 million, driven primarily by sales of Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, and FIFA 07. Overall, PlayStation 2 net revenue decreased $241 million, or 21 percent, compared to fiscal 2006. Although we are unable to specifically quantify the impact, we believe the decrease was primarily due to the transition to new generation consoles. We expect PlayStation 2 related net revenue to continue to decline in fiscal 2008 as consumers increasingly migrate to new platforms, we publish fewer titles (as compared to fiscal 2007) and we defer a greater percentage of our net revenue due to the change in our online enabled packaged goods business model. Xbox 360 The Xbox 360 was launched in North America, Europe and Japan during the three months ended December 31, 2005 and in the rest of Asia during the three months ended March 31, 2006. For fiscal 2007, net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360 was $480 million driven primarily by sales of Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, and FIFA 07. We expect net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360 to increase as the installed base grows and we release more titles. 38 Table of Contents Xbox For fiscal 2007, net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox was $157 million, driven primarily by sales of Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, and NCAA Football 07. Overall, Xbox net revenue decreased $243 million, or 61 percent, as compared to fiscal 2006. Although we are unable to specifically quantify the impact, we believe the decrease was primarily due to the transition to new generation consoles. We expect Xbox related net revenue to continue to decline as consumers increasingly migrate to new platforms and we publish significantly fewer titles (as compared to fiscal 2007). PLAYSTATION 3 The PLAYSTATION 3 launched in North America and Japan during the three months ended December 31, 2006 and Europe and the rest of Asia during the three months ended March 31, 2007. Net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3 was $94 million for fiscal 2007, driven by sales of Need for Speed Carbon, Madden NFL 07, and EA SPORTStm Fight Night Round 3. We expect net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3 to increase as the installed base grows and we release more titles. The increase will be partially offset by our deferral of net revenue resulting from certain online enabled PLAYSTATION 3 games. Wii The Wii launched in North America, Europe and parts of Asia during the three months ended December 31, 2006. Net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii was $65 million for fiscal 2007, driven by sales of Need for Speed Carbon, Madden NFL 07, and Tiger Woods PGA TOUR 07. We expect net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii to increase as the installed base grows and we release more titles. Nintendo GameCube For fiscal 2007, net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo GameCube was $60 million, driven primarily by sales of Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, and FIFA 07. Overall, Nintendo GameCube net revenue decreased $75 million, or 56 percent, as compared to fiscal 2006. Although we are unable to specifically quantify the impact, we believe the decrease was primarily due to the transition to new generation consoles. We expect Nintendo GameCube related net revenue to continue to decline as consumers increasingly migrate to new platforms. We will no longer release titles for the Nintendo GameCube, which will also contribute to our expected net revenue decline from this platform. PC For fiscal 2007, net revenue from sales of titles for the PC was $498 million driven primarily by sales of titles from The Sims, Battlefield, and Command and Conquer franchises. Overall, PC net revenue increased $80 million, or 19 percent, as compared to fiscal 2006. The increase was due to a $62 million increase in frontline net revenue and an $18 million increase in catalog net revenue. Mobile Platforms Net revenue from mobile products, which consist of packaged goods games for handheld systems and downloadable games for cellular handsets, increased from $393 million in fiscal 2006 to $540 million in fiscal 2007. The increase was primarily due to a $121 million year over year growth in our cellular handset games business resulting from our acquisition of JAMDAT and an increase of $37 million in net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo DS. We expect sales of games for cellular handsets to continue to be an increasingly important part of our business worldwide. 39 Table of Contents Co Publishing and Distribution Net revenue from co publishing and distribution products, which consists of packaged goods games we co develop and co publish with as well as distribute on behalf of other companies and revenue generated from our Switzerland distribution business, decreased from $213 million in fiscal 2006 to $175 million in fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in sales from two titles which were released in fiscal 2006 but had no corresponding releases in fiscal 2007: (1) Half Life 2, sales of which decreased by $19 million and (2) Black White 2tm, sales of which decreased by $15 million. We expect sales of titles for co publishing products to increase in fiscal 2008. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for our packaged goods business consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, and (7) operational expenses. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit based milestones), whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online products consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our web sites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third party properties. Cost of goods sold for our web site advertising business primarily consists of ad serving costs. Cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): Change as a March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue % Change Revenue $1,212 39.2% $1,181 40.0% 2.6% (0.8%) In fiscal 2007, cost of goods sold decreased by 0.8 percentage points as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to fiscal 2006. This decrease was primarily due to lower average product costs as a percentage of total net revenue primarily driven by (1) fewer returns and lower pricing actions taken, or expected to be taken, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 and (2) improved inventory management. As a result, we estimate average product costs as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by approximately 2 percent in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. As a percentage of total net revenue, the decrease in average product costs was partially offset by an estimated 1 percent increase in license royalties during fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to (1) license agreements associated with our EA SPORTS titles and (2) from our acquisition of JAMDAT. This was partially offset by lower license royalties from movie based titles in fiscal 2007. Although there can be no assurance, and our actual results could differ materially, in the short term we expect our gross margin to decline as a result of (1) increased deferred net revenue related to certain online enabled packaged goods (we will expense the cost of goods sold related to these transactions when delivered), (2) a higher mix of co publishing and distribution net revenue that has a lower gross margin, and (3) higher license royalty rates. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel related costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $466 15% $431 15% $35 8% 40 Table of Contents Marketing and sales expenses increased by $35 million, or 8 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $17 million in stock based compensation expense recognized as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), (2) an increase of $10 million in our annual bonus expense, and (3) $10 million in additional personnel related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $9 million in our marketing, advertising, promotional and related services as a result of higher advertising in the prior year to support our product releases, primarily from our Harry Potter and BLACK franchises. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $28 million and $41 million in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect marketing and sales expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2008 primarily to support our titles. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $288 9% $215 7% $73 34% General and administrative expenses increased by $73 million, or 34 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to (1) an increase of $36 million in stock based compensation expense recognized as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), (2) a $14 million increase in our annual bonus expense, (3) an $11 million increase in additional personnel related costs to help support our administrative functions worldwide, and (4) an increase of $11 million in professional and contracted services in support of our technology infrastructure. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in personnel related costs. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel related costs, contracted services, equipment depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre launch products. Research and development expenses for our online business include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of web site content, network infrastructure direct expenses, software licenses and maintenance, and network and management overhead. Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $1,041 34% $758 26% $283 37% Research and development expenses increased by $283 million, or 37 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $75 million in stock based compensation expense recognized as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), (2) a $59 million increase in our annual bonus expense, (3) $54 million in additional personnel related costs, primarily due to a 14 percent increase in headcount related in part to our acquisitions of JAMDAT and Mythic, and partially to support development of games for the new generation of consoles, (4) an increase of $50 million in external development expenses primarily due to a greater number of projects in development as compared to the prior year as well as 41 Table of Contents expenses in our cellular handset business resulting from our acquisition of JAMDAT, and (5) an increase of $45 million in facilities related expenses in support of our research and development functions worldwide. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2008 primarily to support our development of titles for the new generation of consoles. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $27 1% $7 $20 286% For fiscal 2007, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, Mythic and others. For fiscal 2006, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, Criterion and others. Amortization of intangibles increased by $20 million, or 286 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to our acquisitions of JAMDAT and Mythic. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. We expect amortization of intangible expenses to increase slightly in fiscal 2008 primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to our acquisition of Mythic, which will be included in our results for a full year in fiscal 2008. Acquired In process Technology Acquired in process technology charges for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $3 $8 $(5) (63%) The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal 2007 resulted from our acquisitions of Mythic and the remaining minority interest in DICE. The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from our acquisition of JAMDAT. Acquired in process technology includes the value of products in the development stage that are not considered to have reached technological feasibility or have an alternative future use. Accordingly, upon consummation of these acquisitions, we incurred a charge for the acquired in process technology, as reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $15 $26 1% $(11) (42%) During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we recorded a total pre tax restructuring charge of $10 million, consisting entirely of one time benefits related to headcount reductions, which is included in restructuring charges in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. These headcount reductions related to our decision in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 to realign our resources with our product plan for fiscal 2007 and strategic opportunities for the new generation of consoles, online and mobile platforms. During fiscal 2006, restructuring charges related to the establishment of our international publishing headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland were approximately $14 million, of which $8 million was for the closure of certain United Kingdom facilities. During fiscal 2007, restructuring charges related to the establishment of our international publishing headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland were approximately $15 million, of which $10 million was for employee related expenses. 42 Table of Contents In connection with our fiscal 2006 international publishing reorganization, in fiscal 2008, we expect to incur between $5 million and $10 million of restructuring costs. Overall, including charges incurred through March 31, 2007, we expect to incur between $50 million and $55 million of restructuring costs in connection with our fiscal 2006 international publishing reorganization, substantially all of which will result in cash expenditures by 2017. These restructuring costs will consist primarily of employee related relocation assistance (approximately $30 million), facility exit costs (approximately $15 million), as well as other reorganization costs (approximately $7 million). Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $99 3% $64 2% $35 55% For fiscal 2007, interest and other income, net, increased by $35 million, or 55 percent, as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to an increase of $30 million in interest income as a result of higher yields on our cash, cash equivalent and short term investment balances and a $7 million decrease in realized net losses recognized on investments. Income Taxes Income taxes for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, Effective March 31, Effective 2007 Tax Rate 2006 Tax Rate % Change $66 48.2% $147 37.6% (55%) Our effective income tax rates were 48.2 percent and 37.6 percent for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. For fiscal 2007, our effective income tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent due to a number of factors, including certain non deductible stock based compensation expenses related to SFAS No. 123(R) and additional charges resulting from certain non deductible acquisition related costs during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. For fiscal 2006, our effective income tax rate is higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent for fiscal 2006 due to a number of factors, including the repatriation of foreign earnings in connection with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act), as discussed below, and additional charges resulting from certain non deductible acquisition related costs during the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006, which were partially offset by other items. Our effective income tax rates for fiscal 2008 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors. For example, changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions (for example, the acquisition of and intercompany transactions related to Mythic and DICE), changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, as well as changes in, or termination of, our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters. Also, variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate for future fiscal years. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our consolidated income or increase in consolidated loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre tax income than higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre tax income, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. With the exception of taking advantage of the one time opportunity afforded to us by the Jobs Act, we currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. 43 Table of Contents In July 2006, FASB issued FIN No. 48 which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109. FIN No. 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. Under FIN No. 48, the evaluation of a tax position is a two step process. The first step is a recognition process where we are required to determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. In evaluating whether a tax position has met the more likely than not recognition threshold, it is presumed that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The second step is a measurement process whereby a tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is calculated to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. FIN No. 48 also requires new tabular reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at the beginning and end of the reporting period. The provisions of FIN No. 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. As such, we are required to adopt it in our first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Any changes to our income taxes due to the adoption of FIN No. 48 are treated as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. We are evaluating what impact the adoption of FIN No. 48 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This impact could be material and our future effective tax rates could be more volatile. Net Income Net income for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $76 2% $236 8% $(160) (68%) Net income decreased by $160 million, or 68 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. The decrease was due to a $395 million increase in our operating expenses primarily due to (1) an increase of $128 million in stock based compensation expense recognized as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), (2) an $83 million increase in our annual bonus expense, and (3) a $75 million increase in additional personnel related costs due to an increase in headcount (related in part to our acquisitions and growth in our EA Mobile business). These increases in operating expenses were mitigated by (1) a $140 million increase in net revenue and (2) an $81 million decrease in our income tax provision. We expect net earnings to decrease in fiscal 2008 primarily as a result of (1) the fact that during fiscal 2008, we expect to recognize the cost of goods sold and direct marketing and selling costs related to certain online enabled packaged goods for which a portion of the corresponding net revenue will be deferred and not recognized until fiscal 2009, and (2) an increase in our research and development expense. Comparison of Fiscal 2006 to Fiscal 2005 Net Revenue From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase/ % 2006 2005 (Decrease) Change North America $ 1,584 54 % $ 1,665 53 % $ (81 ) (5 %) Europe 1,174 40 % 1,284 41 % (110 ) (9 %) Asia 193 6 % 180 6 % 13 7 % International 1,367 46 % 1,464 47 % (97 ) (7 %) Total Net Revenue $ 2,951 100 % $ 3,129 100 % $ (178 ) (6 %) 44 Table of Contents North America For fiscal 2006, net revenue in North America was $1,584 million, driven primarily by sales of (1) Madden NFL 06, Need for Speed Most Wanted, NBA LIVE 06, NCAA Football 06 and The Sims 2, (2) titles for the PSP, which was launched in North America in March 2005, and (3) titles for the Xbox 360, which launched in November 2005. Overall, net revenue decreased $81 million, or 5 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. Our net revenue was adversely impacted by the transition to next generation consoles in fiscal 2006 as overall net revenue from sales of our titles for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and Nintendo GameCube decreased. While sales of titles for the PSP and the Xbox 360 helped to mitigate the impact of the transition in fiscal 2006, they were not enough to offset the overall decrease in net revenue in North America. From a title and franchise perspective, the decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our NFL Street, NBA Street, Def Jam and The Urbztm franchises as there were no corresponding titles released during fiscal 2006, and (2) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings franchise which was released on multiple platforms during fiscal 2005 as compared to two platforms, the PSP and PC, during fiscal 2006. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by (1) sales of Battlefield 2tm on the PC which was released during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and Battlefield 2: Modern Combattm on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox released during the third quarter of fiscal 2006, (2) increased net revenue from our Madden franchise primarily resulting from the release of Madden NFL 06 on the Xbox 360 and PSP in fiscal 2006, and (3) increased net revenue from our Burnout franchise primarily resulting from the release of Burnouttm Revenge on the Xbox 360 and Burnouttm Legends on the PSP in fiscal 2006. Europe For fiscal 2006, net revenue in Europe was $1,174 million, driven primarily by sales of Need for Speed Most Wanted, FIFA 06, The Sims 2, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, as well as sales of titles for the PSP and Xbox 360 which were both introduced in Europe during fiscal 2006. Overall, net revenue declined $110 million, or 9 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro and the British pound sterling) decreased reported European net revenue by approximately $36 million, or 3 percent, net of realized gains from hedging activities, for the fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that European net revenue decreased by approximately $74 million, or 6 percent, for fiscal 2006. Our net revenue in Europe was adversely impacted by the transition to next generation consoles in fiscal 2006 as overall net revenue from sales of our titles for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and Nintendo GameCube decreased. Sales of titles for the PSP, Nintendo DS, and the Xbox 360, however, were enough to offset the overall decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for current generation consoles. From a title and franchise perspective, the overall decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings and The Sims franchises, (2) the release of The Urbztm: Sims in the Citytm during the three months ended December 31, 2004 as there was no corresponding title released during fiscal 2006, and (3) higher fiscal 2005 sales of UEFA Euro 2004tm, which was released in the three months ended June 30, 2004 in conjunction with the UEFA Euro 2004 football tournament held in Europe. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by increased net revenue from our Battlefield franchise due to the release of multiple titles during fiscal 2006 and our FIFA Street franchise due to the initial release of FIFA Street late in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 which benefited fiscal 2006 and the release of FIFA Street 2 earlier in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. Asia For fiscal 2006, net revenue in Asia increased by $13 million, or 7 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. The increase in net revenue for fiscal 2006 was driven primarily by sales of titles for the PSP, which launched in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. We estimate that the foreign exchange rate impact on Asia net revenue was not material for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. 45 Table of Contents Our total net revenue by product line for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase/ % 2006 2005 (Decrease) Change Consoles PlayStation 2 $ 1,127 38 % $ 1,330 43 % $ (203 ) (15 %) Xbox 400 13 % 516 16 % (116 ) (22 %) Xbox 360 140 5 % 140 N/M Nintendo GameCube 135 5 % 212 7 % (77 ) (36 %) Other consoles 1 10 (9 ) (90 %) Total Consoles 1,803 61 % 2,068 66 % (265 ) (13 %) PC 418 14 % 531 17 % (113 ) (21 %) Mobility PSP 252 9 % 18 1 % 234 1,300 % Nintendo DS 67 2 % 23 1 % 44 191 % Game Boy Advance and Game Boy Color 55 2 % 77 2 % (22 ) (29 %) Cellular Handsets 19 1 % 19 N/M Total Mobility 393 14 % 118 4 % 275 233 % Co publishing and Distribution 213 7 % 283 9 % (70 ) (25 %) Internet Services, Licensing and Other Subscription Services 61 2 % 55 2 % 6 11 % Licensing, Advertising and Other 63 2 % 74 2 % (11 ) (15 %) Total Internet Services, Licensing and Other 124 4 % 129 4 % (5 ) (4 %) Total Net Revenue $ 2,951 100 % $ 3,129 100 % $ (178 ) (6 %) PlayStation 2 For fiscal 2006, net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2 was $1,127 million, driven primarily by sales of Need for Speed Most Wanted, Madden NFL 06, FIFA 06, NCAA Football 06 and NBA LIVE 06. We released 28 titles for the PlayStation 2 during fiscal 2006, as compared to 27 titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, PlayStation 2 net revenue decreased $203 million, or 15 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. We believe the transition to next generation consoles adversely impacted our net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2 in fiscal 2006. From a title and franchise perspective, the decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings, The Urbz, Def Jam, NFL Street and NBA Street franchises, none of which had fiscal 2006 releases, and (2) lower sales of fiscal 2006 releases from our Need for Speed and Bond franchises as well as lower sales of our Fight Night franchise from which two titles were released in fiscal 2005 as compared to one title in fiscal 2006. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by the releases of The Godfathertm The Game, BLACKtm, Medal of Honor European Assaulttm, and Battlefield 2: Modern Combat none of which had a corresponding release in fiscal 2005. Xbox For fiscal 2006, net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox was $400 million, driven primarily by sales of Madden NFL 06, Need for Speed Most Wanted, NCAA Football 06 and Burnout Revenge. We released 28 titles for the Xbox during fiscal 2006, as compared to 26 titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, Xbox net revenue decreased $116 million, or 22 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. We believe the transition to next generation consoles, particularly the launch of the Xbox 360 during the last half of fiscal 2006, adversely impacted our net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox in fiscal 2006. From a title and franchise perspective, the decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings, NFL Street, Def Jam, NBA Street 46 Table of Contents and The Urbz franchises, none of which had fiscal 2006 releases, and (2) lower sales of fiscal 2006 releases from our Need for Speed and Bond franchises as well as lower sales of our Fight Night franchise from which two titles were released in fiscal 2005 as compared to one title in fiscal 2006. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by the release of Battlefield 2: Modern Combat, BLACK and The Godfather The Game, none of which had a corresponding release in fiscal 2005. Xbox 360 The Xbox 360 was launched in North America, Europe and Japan during the three months ended December 31, 2005, and in the rest of Asia during the three months ended March 31, 2006. As of March 31 2006, the installed base of the Xbox 360 continued to be small compared to the installed base of the Xbox. Net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360 was $140 million for fiscal 2006, driven by sales of Need for Speed Most Wanted, Madden NFL 06 and EA SPORTS Fight Night Round 3. We released seven titles for the Xbox 360 in fiscal 2006. Nintendo GameCube For fiscal 2006, net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo GameCube was $135 million, driven primarily by sales of Need for Speed Most Wanted, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and Madden NFL 06. We released 14 titles for the Nintendo GameCube during fiscal 2006, as compared to 20 titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, Nintendo GameCube net revenue decreased $77 million, or 36 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005, consistent with the percentage decline in the number of titles we released for this platform. We believe the transition to next generation consoles adversely impacted our net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo GameCube in fiscal 2006. From a title and franchise perspective, the decrease in net revenue in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings, The Urbz, NBA Street, NFL Street and Def Jam franchises, none of which had fiscal 2006 releases, and (2) lower sales of fiscal 2006 releases from our Need for Speed and Bond franchises. PC For fiscal 2006, net revenue from sales of titles for the PC was $418 million, driven primarily by sales of titles from The Sims franchise and Battlefield 2. We released 22 titles for the PC during fiscal 2006, as compared to 21 titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, PC net revenue decreased $113 million, or 21 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily due to (1) significantly higher fiscal 2005 sales of The Sims 2, (2) lower sales from our Medal of Honortm franchise as there were no corresponding titles released during fiscal 2006, and (3) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings franchise. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by sales of products from our Battlefield franchise in fiscal 2006. On January 27, 2005, we began consolidating the financial results of DICE into our financial statements, and, therefore, have characterized Battlefield 2 PC based revenue as part of our PC product line. Prior to consolidating DICEs financial results, we classified revenue from the Battlefield franchise as co publishing and distribution revenue. Mobile Platforms Net revenue from mobile products consisting of packaged goods games for handheld systems and downloadable games for cellular handsets increased from $118 million in fiscal 2005 to $393 million in fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily due to sales of titles released in fiscal 2006 for the PSP, and the Nintendo DS, both of which were launched in fiscal 2005 in certain countries. We released 16 titles for the PSP during fiscal 2006, as compared to three titles in fiscal 2005. Overall, PSP net revenue increased $234 million, driven primarily by sales of titles from our Need for Speed, FIFA, Burnout and Madden franchises. We released ten titles for the Nintendo DS during fiscal 2006, as compared to three titles in fiscal 2005. Nintendo DS net revenue increased $44 million, driven primarily by sales of titles from our Need for Speed, The Sims and Madden franchises. The increase in PSP and Nintendo DS net revenue was partially offset by lower sales of titles for the Game Boy Advance. 47 Table of Contents Co Publishing and Distribution Net revenue from co publishing and distribution products decreased from $283 million in fiscal 2005 to $213 million in fiscal 2006. The decrease was primarily due to (1) the change in our classification of sales of products from our Battlefield franchise, which, as discussed above, we no longer classify as co publishing and distribution revenue, and (2) overall higher fiscal 2005 sales of various co publishing and distribution titles. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by sales of Half Life 2 in fiscal 2006. Subscription Services Net revenue from subscription services increased from $55 million in fiscal 2005 to $61 million in fiscal 2006. The increase in net revenue was primarily due to an increase in the number of paying subscribers to Club Pogotm, partially offset by a decrease in net revenue from Ultima Online. Licensing, Advertising and Other Net revenue from licensing, advertising and other decreased from $74 million in fiscal 2005 to $63 million in fiscal 2006. The decrease in net revenue was primarily due to Nokia N Gage license revenue in fiscal 2005. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue % Change $1,181 40.0% $1,197 38.2% (1.3%) In fiscal 2006, cost of goods sold as a percentage of total net revenue increased 1.8 percent from 38.2 percent to 40.0 percent. As a percentage of total net revenue, the increase was primarily due to an increase in our license royalties associated with new license agreements for our football titles. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $431 15% $391 13% $40 10% Marketing and sales expenses increased by $40 million, or 10 percent, in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $30 million in our marketing and advertising, promotional and related contracted service expenses as a result of increased advertising to support our titles, and (2) an increase of $11 million in personnel related costs resulting from an increase in facilities and headcount related expenses in support of our marketing and sales functions worldwide. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $41 million and $42 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $215 7% $221 7% $(6) (3%) General and administrative expenses decreased by $6 million, or 3 percent, in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 primarily due to a decrease in employee related costs resulting from charges taken in connection with certain employee related litigation matters in fiscal 2005. This decrease was partially offset by an 48 Table of Contents increase in personnel related expenses due to an increase in headcount costs as well as an increase in professional and contracted services to support our business. Research and Development Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $758 26% $633 20% $125 20% Research and development expenses increased by $125 million, or 20 percent, in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The increase is primarily due to an increase of $124 million in personnel related costs resulting from an increase in employee headcount in our Canadian and European studios as we increased our internal development efforts and invested in next generation tools, technologies and titles, as well as consolidation of DICE. To a lesser extent, these increases were also due to higher facilities related costs offset by lower third party development costs. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $7 $3 $4 133% For fiscal 2006, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, Criterion and others. For fiscal 2005, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisition of Criterion and others. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Acquired In process Technology Acquired in process technology charges for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $8 $13 1% $(5) (38%) The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal 2006 was primarily the result of our acquisition of JAMDAT. The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal 2005 was the result of our acquisitions of Criterion and a majority stake of the outstanding shares of DICE. Acquired in process technology includes the value of products in the development stage that are not considered to have reached technological feasibility or have an alternative future use. Accordingly, upon consummation of these acquisitions, we incurred a charge for the acquired in process technology, as reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $26 1% $2 $24 1,200% In November 2005, we announced plans to establish an international publishing headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. Through our quarter ended September 30, 2006, we relocated certain employees to our new facility in Geneva, closed certain facilities in the United Kingdom, and made other related changes in our international publishing business. 49 Table of Contents During fiscal 2006, restructuring charges were approximately $14 million, of which $8 million was for the closure of certain United Kingdom facilities, $3 million for employee related expenses, and $3 million in other costs relating to our international publishing reorganization. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we aligned our resources with our product plan for fiscal 2007 and strategic opportunities relating to next generation consoles, online and mobile platforms. As part of this alignment we recorded a total pre tax restructuring charge of $10 million, consisting entirely of one time benefits related to headcount reductions, which is included in restructuring charges in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $64 2% $56 2% $8 14% For fiscal 2006, interest and other income, net, increased by $8 million, or 14 percent, as compared to fiscal 2005 primarily due to an increase of $31 million in interest income as a result of higher yields on our cash, cash equivalent and short term investment balances, partially offset by a net loss of $22 million in investments and foreign currency activities. Income Taxes Income taxes for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): March 31, Effective March 31, Effective 2006 Tax Rate 2005 Tax Rate % Change $147 37.6% $221 30.5% (33%) Our effective income tax rates were 37.6 percent and 30.5 percent for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. For fiscal 2006, our effective income tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent for fiscal 2006 due to a number of factors, including the repatriation of foreign earnings in connection with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and additional charges resulting from certain non deductible acquisition related costs during the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006, which were partially offset by other items. Net Income Net income for fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2006 Revenue 2005 Revenue $ Change % Change $236 8% $504 16% $(268) (53%) Net income decreased by $268 million, or 53 percent, in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in our net revenue and growth in our operating expenses. The growth in our operating expenses was primarily driven by an increase in research and development expenses as we increased our internal development efforts and invested in next generation tools, technologies and titles, while at the same time we continued to support current generation product development. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. SFAS No. 155 (1) permits fair value measurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation, (2) clarifies that interest only strips and principal only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, (3) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation, (4) clarifies that 50 Table of Contents concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives, and (5) amends SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities A Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special purpose entity from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument. In December 2006, the FASB cleared guidance in Derivatives Implementation Group Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B40, Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Securitized Interests in Prepayable Financial Assets. FASB concluded that a securitized interest in prepayable financial assets is not subject to the conditions in paragraph 13(b) of SFAS No. 133 if it meets the two criteria outlined in the Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B40. SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. The guidance in the Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B40 is applicable upon adoption of SFAS No. 155, although the FASB provides certain exceptions as described in the Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B40. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 155 or Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B40 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. Under FIN No. 48, the evaluation of a tax position is a two step process. The first step is a recognition process where we are required to determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. In evaluating whether a tax position has met the more likely than not recognition threshold, it is presumed that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The second step is a measurement process whereby a tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is calculated to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. FIN No. 48 also requires new tabular reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at the beginning and end of the reporting period. The provisions of FIN No. 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. As such, we are required to adopt it in our first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Any changes to our income taxes due to the adoption of FIN No. 48 are treated as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. We are evaluating what impact the adoption of FIN No. 48 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements. This impact could be material and our future effective tax rates could be more volatile. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop those assumptions. Fair value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. It also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. The provisions of SFAS No. 159 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. This Statement should not be applied retrospectively to fiscal years 51 Table of Contents beginning prior to the effective date, except as permitted with early adoption. We are evaluating if we will adopt SFAS No. 159 and what impact the adoption will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements if we adopt. If we adopt SFAS No. 159, it may have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In March 2007, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued a tentative conclusion on EITF 07 03, Accounting for Advance Payments for Goods or Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development and the FASB ratified the tentative conclusion. The FASB exposed the EITF tentative conclusion for public comment. The comment period was expected to end in May 2007. EITF 07 03 addresses the diversity which exists with respect to the accounting for the non refundable portion of a payment made by a research and development entity for future research and development activities. Under this tentative conclusion, an entity would defer and capitalize non refundable advance payments made for research and development activities until the related goods are delivered or the related services are performed. If a final consensus is reached on this tentative conclusion, EITF 07 03 would be effective for interim or annual reporting periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. We do not expect the adoption of EITF 07 03 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements if ratified by the FASB as currently proposed. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Year Ended March 31, March 31, (In millions) 2007 2006 Increase Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,371 $ 1,242 $ 129 Short term investments 1,264 1,030 234 Marketable equity securities 341 160 181 Total $ 2,976 $ 2,432 $ 544 Percentage of total assets 58 % 55 % Year Ended March 31, March 31, Increase / (In millions) 2007 2006 (Decrease) Cash provided by operating activities $ 397 $ 596 $ (199 ) Cash used in investing activities (487 ) (108 ) (379 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 190 (503 ) 693 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 29 (13 ) 42 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 129 $ (28 ) $ 157 Changes in Cash Flow During fiscal 2007, we generated $397 million of cash from operating activities as compared to $596 million for fiscal 2006. The decrease in cash generated from operating activities was primarily due to the timing of the collection of our receivables as a result of collecting a greater amount of our receivables during fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2007. We expect cash from operating activities to increase in fiscal 2008. For fiscal 2007, we generated $1,315 million of cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short term investments and $168 million in proceeds from sales of common stock through our stock based compensation plans. Our primary use of cash in non operating activities consisted of (1) $1,522 million used to purchase short term investments, (2) $178 million in capital expenditures primarily related to investments in our worldwide development tools, technologies and equipment and expansions of our Vancouver and United Kingdom studios, as well as (3) $103 million primarily for the acquisitions of Mythic and the remaining minority interest in DICE. During fiscal 2008, we anticipate making continued capital investments in our studios, investments in the new generation of consoles, online infrastructure and mobile platforms. In addition, 52 Table of Contents we have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions. In April 2007, we expanded our commercial agreements with and made strategic equity investments in Neowiz Corporation and its online gaming subsidiary, Neowiz Games. We purchased stock representing in aggregate approximately 19 percent of each of Neowiz and Neowiz Games for approximately $108 million. Based in Korea, Neowiz is an online media and gaming company with which we partnered in 2006 to launch EA Sports FIFA Online in Korea. Short term investments and marketable equity securities Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short term interest rates. As of March 31, 2007, our short term investments had gross unrealized gains of $2 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short term investments, and gross unrealized losses of approximately $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. Marketable equity securities increased to $341 million as of March 31, 2007, from $160 million as of March 31, 2006, due to an increase in the fair value of our investment in Ubisoft Entertainment. Receivables, net Our gross accounts receivable balances were $470 million and $431 million as of March 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in our accounts receivable balance was primarily due to a higher percentage of net revenue recognized in the last month of our fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. Reserves for sales returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts decreased in absolute dollars from $232 million as of March 31, 2006 to $214 million as of March 31, 2007. As a percentage of trailing nine month net revenue, reserves decreased from 9 percent as of March 31, 2006, to 8 percent as of March 31, 2007. We believe these reserves are adequate based on historical experience and our current estimate of potential returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts. Inventories Inventories increased slightly to $62 million as of March 31, 2007 from $61 million as of March 31, 2006. Other than Need for Speed Carbon, no single title represented more than $3 million of inventory as of March 31, 2007. Other current assets Other current assets decreased to $219 million as of March 31, 2007, from $234 million as of March 31, 2006, primarily due to the timing of the collection of advertising credits owed to us by our vendors that were earned in fiscal 2007, partially offset by an increase in value added taxes receivable. Accounts payable Accounts payable increased to $180 million as of March 31, 2007, from $163 million as of March 31, 2006, primarily due to higher inventory purchases to support our business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. Accrued and other current liabilities Our accrued and other liabilities increased to $823 million as of March 31, 2007 from $697 million as of March 31, 2006. The increase was primarily due to an increase of (1) $84 million in accrued compensation and benefits and (2) $50 million in income taxes payable. 53 Table of Contents Deferred income taxes, net Our long term position of deferred income taxes changed by $46 million, from a liability position as of March 31, 2006 to a net asset position as of March 31, 2007 primarily due to the addition of assets related to our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the reduction of liabilities due to the amortization of purchased intangibles. Financial Condition We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable equity securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, and potential future acquisitions or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. The loan financing arrangements supporting our Redwood City headquarters leases with Keybank National Association, described in the Off Balance Sheet Commitments section below, are scheduled to expire in July 2008. Upon expiration of the financing, we may request, on behalf of the lessor and subject to lender approval, an additional one year extension of the loan financing between the lessor and the lenders. In the event the lessors loan financing with the lenders is not extended, we may loan to the lessor approximately 90 percent of the financing, and require the lessor to extend the remainder through July 2009, otherwise the leases will terminate. Upon expiration of the leases, we may purchase the facilities for $247 million, or arrange for a sale of the facilities to a third party. In the event of a sale to a third party, if the sale price is less than $247 million, we will be obligated to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $247 million, up to maximum of $222 million, subject to certain provisions of the leases. As of March 31, 2007, approximately $1,108 million of our cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and marketable equity securities that was generated from operations was domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we repatriated $375 million of foreign earnings in fiscal 2006 under the Jobs Act. We completed the repatriation in fiscal 2006 which resulted in a tax expense of $17 million. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings up to a total amount of $2 billion. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts and, if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products on new platforms and new versions of our products on existing platforms, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part I, Item 1A of this report. 54 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non employee software developers (independent artists or third party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, UEFA and FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited) (professional soccer); NASCAR (stock car racing); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR and Tiger Woods (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry Potter, Batman and Superman); New Line Productions and Saul Zaentz Company (The Lord of the Rings); Red Bear Inc. (John Madden); National Football League Properties and PLAYERS Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football, basketball and baseball); Simcoh (Def Jam); Viacom Consumer Products (The Godfather); ESPN (content in EA SPORTStm games); Twentieth Century Fox Licensing and Merchandising (The Simpsons); and Marvel Entertainment, Inc. (Marvel character fighting games). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non royalty bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of March 31, 2007, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Commercial Contractual Obligations Commitments Developer/ Letter of Credit, Licensor Bank and Other Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Leases(1) Commitments(2) Marketing Guarantees Total 2008 $ 56 $ 200 $ 58 $ 7 $ 321 2009 54 202 31 287 2010 39 166 31 236 2011 27 263 31 321 2012 23 27 17 67 Thereafter 46 697 169 912 Total $ 245 $ 1,555 $ 337 $ 7 $ 2,144 (1) See discussion on operating leases in the Off Balance Sheet Commitments section below for additional information. (2) Developer/licensor commitments include $9 million of commitments to developers or licensors that have been recorded in current and long term liabilities and a corresponding amount in current and long term assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2007 because payment is not contingent upon performance by the developer or licensor. 55 Table of Contents The amounts represented in the table above reflect our minimal cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be expensed in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Lease commitments include contractual rental commitments of $15 million under real estate leases for unutilized office space resulting from our restructuring activities. These amounts, net of estimated future sub lease income, were expensed in the periods of the related restructuring and are included in our accrued and other current liabilities reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2007. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Related Person Transaction On June 24, 2002, we hired Warren C. Jenson as our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer and agreed to loan him $4 million to be forgiven over four years based on his continuing employment. The loan did not bear interest. On June 24, 2004, pursuant to the terms of the loan agreement, we forgave $2 million of the loan and provided Mr. Jenson approximately $1.6 million to offset the tax implications of the forgiveness. On June 24, 2006, pursuant to the terms of the loan agreement, we forgave the remaining outstanding loan balance of $2 million. No additional funds were provided to offset the tax implications of the forgiveness of the $2 million balance. OFF BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS In February 1995, we entered into a build to suit lease (Phase One Lease) with a third party lessor for our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California (Phase One Facilities). The Phase One Facilities comprise a total of approximately 350,000 square feet and provide space for sales, marketing, administration and research and development functions. In July 2001, the lessor refinanced the Phase One Lease with Keybank National Association through July 2006. The Phase One Lease expires in January 2039, subject to early termination in the event the underlying financing between the lessor and its lenders is not extended. Subject to certain terms and conditions, we may purchase the Phase One Facilities or arrange for the sale of the Phase One Facilities to a third party. Pursuant to the terms of the Phase One Lease, we have an option to purchase the Phase One Facilities at any time for a purchase price of $132 million. In the event of a sale to a third party, if the sale price is less than $132 million, we will be obligated to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $132 million, up to a maximum of $117 million, subject to certain provisions of the Phase One Lease, as amended. On May 26, 2006, the lessor extended its loan financing underlying the Phase One Lease with its lenders through July 2007, and on May 14, 2007, the lenders extended this financing again for an additional year through July 2008. We may request, on behalf of the lessor and subject to lender approval, an additional one year extension of the loan financing between the lessor and the lenders. In the event the lessors loan financing with the lenders is not extended, we may loan to the lessor approximately 90 percent of the financing, and require the lessor to extend the remainder through July 2009; otherwise the lease will terminate. We account for the Phase One Lease arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, as amended. In December 2000, we entered into a second build to suit lease (Phase Two Lease) with Keybank National Association for a five and one half year term beginning in December 2000 to expand our Redwood City, California headquarters facilities and develop adjacent property (Phase Two Facilities). Construction of the Phase Two Facilities was completed in June 2002. The Phase Two Facilities comprise a total of approximately 310,000 square feet and provide space for sales, marketing, administration and research and development functions. Subject to certain terms and conditions, we may purchase the Phase Two Facilities or arrange for the sale of the Phase Two Facilities to a third party. Pursuant to the terms of the Phase Two Lease, we have an option to purchase the Phase Two Facilities at any time for a purchase price of $115 million. In the event of a sale to a third party, if the sale price is less than 56 Table of Contents $115 million, we will be obligated to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $115 million, up to a maximum of $105 million, subject to certain provisions of the Phase Two Lease, as amended. On May 26, 2006, the lessor extended the Phase Two Lease through July 2009 subject to early termination in the event the underlying loan financing between the lessor and its lenders is not extended. Concurrently with the extension of the lease, the lessor extended the loan financing underlying the Phase Two Lease with its lenders through July 2007. On May 14, 2007 the lenders extended this financing again for an additional year through July 2008. We may request, on behalf of the lessor and subject to lender approval, an additional one year extension of the loan financing between the lessor and the lenders. In the event the lessors loan financing with the lenders is not extended, we may loan to the lessor approximately 90 percent of the financing, and require the lessor to extend the remainder through July 2009, otherwise the lease will terminate. We account for the Phase Two Lease arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, as amended. We believe that, as of March 31, 2007, the estimated fair values of both properties under these operating leases exceeded their respective guaranteed residual values. The two lease agreements with Keybank National Association described above require us to maintain certain financial covenants as shown below, all of which we were in compliance with as of March 31, 2007. Actual as of Financial Covenants Requirement March 1, 2007 Consolidated Net Worth (in millions) equal to or greater than $ 2,430 $ 4,032 Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio equal to or greater than 3.00 4.41 Total Consolidated Debt to Capital equal to or less than 60 % 5.8 % Quick Ratio Q1 Q2 equal to or greater than 1.00 N/A Q3 Q4 equal to or greater than 1.75 8.92 In February 2006, we entered into an agreement with an independent third party to lease a studio facility in Guildford, Surrey, United Kingdom, which commenced in June 2006 and will expire in May 2016. The facility comprises a total of approximately 95,000 square feet, which we use for research and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is approximately $33 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. In June 2004, we entered into a lease agreement, amended in December 2005, with an independent third party for a studio facility in Orlando, Florida. The lease commenced in January 2005 and expires in June 2010, with one five year option to extend the lease term. The campus facilities comprise a total of 140,000 square feet and provide space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation over the initial five and a half year term of the lease is $15 million. In July 2003, we entered into a lease agreement with an independent third party (the Landlord) for a studio facility in Los Angeles, California, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013 with two five year options to extend the lease term. Additionally, we have options to purchase the property after five and ten years based on the fair market value of the property at the date of sale, a right of first offer to purchase the property upon terms offered by the Landlord, and a right to share in the profits from a sale of the property. Existing campus facilities comprise a total of 243,000 square feet and provide space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is $50 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. This commitment is offset by expected sublease income of $6 million for a sublease to an affiliate of the Landlord of 18,000 square feet of the Los Angeles facility, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013, with options of early termination by the affiliate after five years and by us after four and five years. In October 2002, we entered into a lease agreement, with an independent third party for a studio facility in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, which commenced in May 2003 and expires in April 2013. We amended the lease in October 2003. The facility comprises a total of approximately 65,000 square feet and provides space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is approximately $16 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. 57 Table of Contents Neowiz Investment In April 2007, we expanded our commercial agreements with and made strategic equity investments in Neowiz Corporation and its online gaming subsidiary, Neowiz Games. We purchased stock representing in aggregate approximately 19 percent of each of Neowiz and Neowiz Games for approximately $108 million. Based in Korea, Neowiz is an online media and gaming company with which we partnered in 2006 to launch EA Sports FIFA Online in Korea. Legal Proceedings On September 14, 2006, we received an informal inquiry from the Securities and Exchange Commission requesting certain documents and information relating to our stock option grant practices from January 1, 1997 through the date of the letter. We have cooperated to date with all matters related to this request. We most recently provided the SEC with information in December 2006. The SEC has not asked for further information since that time. We are also subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that any liability from any reasonably foreseeable disposition of such claims and litigation, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Director Indemnity Agreements We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. INFLATION We believe the impact of inflation on our results of operations has not been significant in any of the past three fiscal years. Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk We are exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and market prices. Market risk is the potential loss arising from changes in market rates and market prices. We employ established policies and practices to manage these risks. Foreign exchange option and forward contracts are used to hedge anticipated exposures or mitigate some existing exposures subject to foreign exchange risk as discussed below. We have not historically, nor do we currently, hedge our short term investment portfolio. We do not consider our cash and cash equivalents to be exposed to significant interest rate risk because our cash and cash equivalent portfolio consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report). We also do not currently hedge our market price risk relating to our equity investments. Further, we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report). Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Cash Flow Hedging Activities. From time to time, we hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk related to forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and expense transactions by purchasing option contracts that generally have maturities of 15 months or less. These transactions are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The derivative assets associated with our hedging activities are recorded at fair value in other current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive 58 Table of Contents income in stockholders equity and subsequently reclassified into net revenue or operating expenses, as appropriate in the period when the forecasted transaction is recorded. The ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reported in each period in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements in revenue and operating expenses. As of March 31, 2007, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $28 million in foreign currencies and to sell approximately $72 million of foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2007, these foreign currency option contracts outstanding had a total fair value of less than $1 million, included in other current assets. As of March 31, 2006, we had no foreign currency option contracts outstanding. Balance Sheet Hedging Activities. We utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, primarily intercompany receivables and payables. The forward contracts generally have a contractual term of approximately one month and are transacted near month end. Therefore, the fair value of the forward contracts generally is not significant at each month end. Our foreign exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133 and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts are reported as other current assets or other current liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and gains and losses from changes in fair value are reported in interest and other income, net. The gains and losses on these forward contracts generally offset the gains and losses on the underlying foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, which are also reported in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of March 31, 2007, we had forward foreign exchange contracts to purchase and sell approximately $104 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $73 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $8 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for British pound sterling and $23 million to purchase foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars. As of March 31, 2006, we had forward foreign exchange contracts to purchase and sell approximately $161 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $132 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $14 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for British pound sterling and $15 million to purchase foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars. The fair value of our forward contracts was immaterial as of March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006. The counterparties to these forward and option contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks; therefore, the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not considered to be material. Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. As of March 31, 2007, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would result in a potential loss in fair value of our option contracts of $1 million in both scenarios. As of March 31, 2006, we had no foreign currency option contracts outstanding. A hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would result in potential losses on our forward contracts of $9 million and $14 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2007, and $16 million and $23 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2006. This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift in foreign currency exchange rates, which do not always move in the same direction. Actual results may differ materially. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our short term investment portfolio. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities. Additionally, the contractual terms of the securities do not permit the issuer to call, prepay or otherwise settle the securities at prices less than the stated par value of the securities. Our investments are held for purposes other than trading. Also, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our short term investment portfolio. As of March 31, 2007 and 2006, our short term investments were classified as available for sale and, consequently, recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in 59 Table of Contents stockholders equity. Our portfolio of short term investments consisted of the following investment categories, summarized by fair value as of March 31, 2007 and 2006 (in millions): As of March 31, 2007 2006 Commercial paper $ 574 $ 25 U.S. agency securities 264 575 Corporate bonds 226 178 Asset backed securities 108 40 U.S. Treasury securities 92 212 Total short term investments $ 1,264 $ 1,030 Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. At any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2007, arising from potential changes in interest rates. The modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. Valuation of Securities Fair Value Valuation of Securities Given an Interest Rate as of Given an Interest Rate (In millions) Decrease of X Basis Points March 31, Increase of X Basis Points (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 2007 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS Commercial paper $ 575 $ 575 $ 574 $ 574 $ 573 $ 573 $ 572 U.S. agency securities 271 269 267 264 262 259 257 Corporate bonds 231 230 228 226 225 223 222 Asset backed securities 110 109 108 108 107 106 105 U.S. Treasury securities 95 94 94 92 92 91 90 Total short term investments $ 1,282 $ 1,277 $ 1,271 $ 1,264 $ 1,259 $ 1,252 $ 1,246 The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2006, arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. Valuation of Securities Fair Value Valuation of Securities Given an Interest Rate as of Given an Interest Rate (In millions) Decrease of X Basis Points March 31, Increase of X Basis Points (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 2006 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS U.S. agency securities $ 581 $ 579 $ 577 $ 575 $ 573 $ 571 $ 570 U.S. Treasury securities 218 216 214 212 210 208 205 Corporate bonds 182 181 179 178 176 175 173 Asset backed and other debt securities 66 66 66 65 65 65 65 Total short term investments $ 1,047 $ 1,042 $ 1,036 $ 1,030 $ 1,024 $ 1,019 $ 1,013 Market Price Risk The value of our equity investments in publicly traded companies are subject to market price volatility. As of March 31, 2007 and 2006, our marketable equity securities were classified as available for sale and, consequently, were recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in 60 Table of Contents stockholders equity. The fair value of our marketable equity securities was $341 million and $160 million as of March 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At any time, a sharp change in market prices in our investments in marketable equity securities could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2007, arising from changes in market prices plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent and 75 percent. Valuation of Securities Valuation of Securities Given an X Percentage Fair Value Given an X Percentage Decrease in Each as of Increase in Each (In millions) Stocks Market Price March 31, Stocks Market Price (75%) (50%) (25%) 2007 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 85 $ 171 $ 256 $ 341 $ 426 $ 512 $ 597 The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2006, arising from changes in market prices plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent and 75 percent. Valuation of Securities Valuation of Securities Given an X Percentage Fair Value Given an X Percentage Decrease in Each as of Increase in Each (In millions) Stocks Market Price March 31, Stocks Market Price (75%) (50%) (25%) 2006 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 40 $ 80 $ 120 $ 160 $ 200 $ 240 $ 280 61 Table of Contents 
 
