Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW The following overview is a top level discussion of our operating results as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10 K, including in the Business section and the Risk Factors above, the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute video game software and content that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the Sony PlayStation 2 and PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360tm and Nintendo Wiitm), personal computers, handheld game players (such as the PlayStation Portable (PSPtm) and the Nintendo DStm) and cellular handsets. Some of our games are based on content that we license from others (e.g., Madden NFL Football, Harry Potter and FIFA Soccer), and some of our games are based on our own wholly owned intellectual property (e.g., The Simstm, Need for Speedtm and POGOtm). Our goal is to publish titles with global mass market appeal, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in non English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game franchises that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property. Examples of this franchise approach are the annual iterations of our sports based products (e.g., Madden NFL Football, NCAA Football and FIFA Soccer), wholly owned properties that can be successfully sequeled (e.g., The Sims, Need for Speed and Battlefield) and titles based on long lived literary and or movie properties (e.g., Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter). Special Note Regarding Deferred Net Revenue The ubiquity of high speed Internet access and the integration of network connectivity into new generation game consoles are expected to continue to increase demand for games with online enabled features. To address this demand, many of our software products are developed with the ability to be connected to, and played via, the Internet. In order for consumers to participate in online communities and play against one another via the Internet, we (either directly or through outsourced arrangements with third parties) maintain servers which support an online service we offer to consumers for activities such as matchmaking. In situations where we do not separately sell this online service, we account for the sale of the software product as a bundle sale, or multiple element arrangement, in which we sell both the software product and the online service for one combined price. Through fiscal 2007, for accounting purposes, vendor specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) existed for the online service. Accordingly, we allocated the revenue collected from the sale of the software product between the online service offered and the software product and recognized the amounts allocated to each element separately. However, starting in fiscal 2008, for accounting purposes, the required vendor specific objective evidence of fair value did not exist for the online service related to certain of our online enabled software products. This prevented us from allocating and separately recognizing revenue related to the software product and the online service. Accordingly, starting in fiscal 2008, we began to recognize all of the revenue from the sale of our online enabled software products for the PC, PlayStation 2, PLAYSTATION 3, Wii and the PSP on a deferred basis over an estimated online service period, which we estimate to be six months beginning in the month after shipment. On a quarterly basis, the deferral amount will vary significantly depending upon the number of titles we release, the timing of their release, sales volume, returns and price protection provided for these online enabled software products. In addition, we expense the cost of goods sold related to these transactions during the period in which the product is delivered (rather than on a deferred basis), which inherently creates volatility in our reported gross margin percentages. 29 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2008, we had an accumulated balance of $387 million of deferred net revenue related to online enabled packaged goods and digital content, substantially all of which was driven by sales made during the six months ended March 31, 2008. As of March 31, 2007, we had an accumulated balance of $32 million of deferred net revenue related to online enabled packaged goods and digital content. Financial Results Total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 was $3.665 billion, up 19 percent as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. The impact of deferrals related to packaged goods and digital content for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 decreased our reported net revenue and operating income by $355 million. Net revenue was driven by sales of Rock Band, Madden NFL 08, FIFA 08, Need for Speed ProStreet, and The Simpsonstm Game. Net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 was $454 million as compared to net income of $76 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. Diluted loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 was $1.45 as compared to diluted income per share of $0.24 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. Net income decreased during fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to (1) an increase in cost of goods sold of $593 million, (2) an increase in sales of online enabled titles for which we were unable to establish VSOE that resulted in the net deferral of $355 million of net revenue out of fiscal 2008 and into future periods, (3) an increase of $135 million in acquired in process technology primarily due to our acquisition of VG Holding Corp., (4) losses on strategic investments of $118 million, (5) an increase of $108 million in personnel related costs, (6) an increase of $90 million in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses primarily to support our launch of new franchises and incremental spending on recurring franchises, and (7) an increase of $88 million in restructuring charges primarily as a result of our fiscal 2008 reorganization. These items were partially offset by (1) an increase in $574 million in net revenue and (2) $119 million lower income tax expense. We generated $338 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended March 31, 2008, as compared to $397 million for fiscal 2007. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 was primarily due to (1) an increase in operating expenses paid resulting from an increase in advertising and marketing costs, external development expenses and personnel related expenses, and (2) a $90 million increase in incentive based cash compensation paid in fiscal 2008 which were earned with respect to fiscal 2007 performance. These decreases were significantly offset by higher net revenue collected during fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. Managements Overview of Historical and Prospective Business Trends Fiscal 2008 Reorganization. In fiscal 2008, we reorganized our business into four operating labels EA Games, EA SPORTS, The Sims and EA Casual Entertainment and an additional group that works closely with the labels Global Publishing. Each label is structured to operate globally and includes several key functions including development studios, product marketing, and planning for products and services. Global Publishing operates in three regions, North America, Europe and Asia, and is responsible for strategic planning, field marketing, sales, distribution, operations, product certification, quality assurance, motion capture, art outsourcing and localization. In October 2007, our Board of Directors approved a plan of reorganization (fiscal 2008 reorganization plan). Since the inception of the fiscal 2008 reorganization plan through March 31, 2008, we incurred charges associated with (1) the closure of our Chertsey, England and Chicago, Illinois facilities, which included asset impairment and lease termination costs, (2) employee related expenses, and (3) other costs including other contract terminations as well as IT and consulting costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we completed the closure of our Chertsey facility and consolidated our local operations and employees into our Guildford, England facility. Over the next 18 months, we expect to continue to incur IT and consulting costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. 30 Table of Contents Including charges incurred through March 31, 2008, we expect to incur cash and non cash charges between $115 million and $125 million by fiscal 2010 related to our fiscal 2008 reorganization plan. These charges will consist primarily of employee related costs (approximately $10 million in cash charges), facility exit costs (approximately $60 million in cash and non cash charges), as well as other reorganization costs including other contract terminations and IT and consulting costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions (approximately $50 million in cash and non cash charges). Transition to a New Generation of Consoles. Video game hardware systems have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical as well. The current cycle began with Microsofts launch of the Xbox 360 in 2005, and continued in 2006 when Sony and Nintendo launched their next generation systems, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii, respectively. During fiscal 2008, the installed base of each of these systems continued to expand and, as a result, sales of our products for these systems have also increased significantly. At the same time, however, demand for video games for prior generation systems, particularly the original Xbox and the Nintendo GameCube, has declined significantly. Although we expect to continue developing and marketing new titles for the prior generation PlayStation 2 in fiscal 2009, we only expect to release one title for the original Xbox and no titles for the Nintendo GameCube. As a result, we expect our sales of video games for prior generation systems will continue to decline. The decline in prior generation product sales, particularly the PlayStation 2, may be greater or faster than we anticipate, and sales of products for the new platforms may be lower or increase more slowly than we anticipate. Moreover, we expect development costs for the new video game systems continue to be greater on a per title basis than development costs for prior generation video game systems. We have incurred increased costs during this transition as we have continued to develop and market new titles for certain prior generation video game platforms, while also making significant investments in products for the new generation platforms. We expect research and development expenses to increase on an absolute basis in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 (although not necessarily as a percentage of net revenue). Online. Today, we generate net revenue from a variety of online products and services, including casual games and downloadable content marketed under our Pogo brand, persistent state world games such as Ultima Onlinetm and Dark Age of Camelot, PC based downloadable content and online enabled packaged goods. In addition, we are anticipating the release of a new massively multiplayer online role playing game, Warhammer Online. We intend to make significant investments in online products, infrastructure and services and believe that online gameplay will become an increasingly important part of our business in the long term. Expansion of Mobile Platforms. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving platforms for on the go interactive entertainment that appeal to a broader demographic of consumers. Our efforts to capitalize on the growth in mobile interactive entertainment are focused in two broad areas packaged goods games for handheld game systems and downloadable games for cellular handsets. We have developed and published games for a variety of handheld platforms for several years. More recently, the Sony PSP and the Nintendo DS, with their enhanced graphics, deeper gameplay, and online functionality, provide a richer mobile gaming experience for consumers. We expect sales of games for handhelds and cellular handsets to continue to be an important part of our business worldwide. Acquisitions and Investments. We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of companies, businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets. Since the beginning of fiscal 2007, we have announced and or completed several acquisitions and investments, including: In January 2008, we completed our acquisition of VG Holding Corp. (VGH), owner of both BioWare Corp. and Pandemic Studios, LLC, which create action, adventure, and role playing games. VGH was headquartered in Menlo Park, California. BioWare Corp. and Pandemic Studios are located in Edmonton, Canada; Los Angeles, California; Austin, Texas; and Brisbane, Australia. 31 Table of Contents In May 2007, we entered into a licensing agreement with and made a strategic equity investment in The9 Limited, a leading online game operator in China. The licensing agreement gives The9 exclusive publishing rights for EA SPORTStmFIFA Online in mainland China. In April 2007, we expanded our commercial agreements with and made strategic equity investments in Neowiz Corporation and a related online gaming company, Neowiz Games (we refer to Neowiz Corporation and Neowiz Games collectively as Neowiz). Based in Korea, Neowiz is an online media and gaming company with which we partnered in 2006 to launch EA SPORTS FIFA Online in Korea. In October 2006, the remaining outstanding shares of Digital Illusions C.E. (DICE) located in Sweden, were purchased, thereby completing the acquisition of the remaining minority interest of DICE. In July 2006, we acquired Mythic Entertainment, Inc., located in Virginia, as part of our efforts to accelerate our growth in the massively multiplayer online role playing market. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we announced a proposal to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Take Two Interactive Software, Inc.(Take Two), for a total purchase price of approximately $2.1 billion (including fees and expenses). Take Twos Board of Directors has stated that our offer undervalues the company and is not in the best interests of stockholders. If we were to acquire Take Two, we expect the acquisition would have a material impact on our future financial position and results of operations and cash flows. Although the offer is not conditional upon any financing arrangements, our Board of Directors has authorized us to obtain additional financing, a portion of which may be used in part to fund the acquisition. There can be no assurance that we will acquire Take Two. International Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Impact. International sales are a fundamental part of our business. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 47 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal 2008 and approximately 46 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal 2007. Our international net revenue was primarily driven by sales in Europe and, to a much lesser extent, in Asia. Year over year, we estimate that foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact on our net revenue of $125 million, or 4 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2008. We believe that in order to succeed internationally, it is important to locally develop content that is specifically directed toward local cultures and consumers. Stock Based Compensation. Beginning on April 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS No. 123(R)), Share Based Payment, and applied the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107, Share Based Payment, to our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). During fiscal 2008, we recognized stock based compensation of $150 million, pre tax, and $123 million, net of tax. During fiscal 2007, we recognized stock based compensation of $133 million, pre tax, and $107 million, net of tax. Stock based compensation expense has been reflected in the respective functional line items on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PlayStation 2, PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs and mobile platforms including handheld game players (such as the PSP and Nintendo DS), and cellular handsets. We evaluate the 32 Table of Contents recognition of revenue based on the criteria set forth in Statement of Position (SOP) 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98 9, Modification of SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions and SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition. We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement. Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products that must be present in order to recognize revenue. Delivery. Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. For online game services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided. For digital downloads that do not have an online service component, delivery is considered to occur generally when the download occurs. Fixed or determinable fee. If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable. We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection). Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report in each period. For example, for multiple element arrangements, we must make assumptions and judgments in order to: (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services; (3) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element; and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver. Changes to any of these assumptions or judgments, or changes to the elements in a software arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. For example, in connection with some of our packaged goods product sales, we offer an online service without an additional fee. Prior to fiscal 2008, we were able to determine VSOE for the online service to be delivered; therefore, we were able to allocate the total price received from the combined product and online service sale between these two elements and recognize the related revenue separately. However, starting in fiscal 2008, VSOE does not exist for the online service to be delivered for certain platforms and all revenue from these transactions are recognized over the estimated online service period. More specifically, starting in fiscal 2008, we began to recognize the revenue from sales of certain online enabled packaged goods on a straight line basis over a six month period beginning in the month after shipment. Accordingly, this relatively small change (from having VSOE for the online service to no longer having VSOE) has had a significant effect on our reported results. Determining whether a transaction constitutes an online game service transaction or a download of a product requires judgment and can be difficult. The accounting for these transactions is significantly different. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download occurs (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). Revenue from online game services is recognized as the services are rendered. If the service period is not defined, we recognize the revenue over the estimated service period. Determining the estimated service period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors (channel partners), is recognized when the above criteria are met. We reduce product revenue for estimated future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. Price protection represents the right to receive a credit allowance in the event we lower our wholesale price on a particular product. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old price and the new price. In certain countries, we have stock balancing programs for our PC and video game system products, which allow for the exchange of these products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange products or give credits rather than to give cash refunds. 33 Table of Contents In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for both our PC and video game system products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell through of distributor and retailer inventory of our products, current trends in retail and the video game segment, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing products. For example, the risk of product returns and or price protection for our products may continue to increase as the PlayStation 2 console moves through its lifecycle. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates changed, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our reported total net revenue. In addition, if our estimates of returns and price protection related to online enabled packaged goods products change, the amount of net deferred revenue we recognize in the future would change. Significant judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the conclusion on the appropriate accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present amount, and (3) the cost approach which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets, acquired in process technology and equity instruments granted for services, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset, liability or equity instrument being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the delayed receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and, if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. 34 Table of Contents While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to the assessments: Business Combinations. We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and acquired in process technology in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material affect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various lives and acquired in process technology is expensed upon consummation. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount to recognize as goodwill, an asset that is not amortized. Often determining the fair value of these assets and liabilities assumed requires an assessment of expected use of the asset, the expected cost to extinguish the liability or our expectations related to the timing and the successful completion of development of an acquired in process technology. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our financial statements. Assessment of Impairment of Assets. Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of purchased intangible assets and other long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent upon our predictions of which of our products we develop will be successful which is dependent upon several things beyond our control, such as which operating platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets requires at least an annual assessment for impairment of goodwill by applying a fair value based test. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. Determining the estimated fair value for each reporting unit could be materially affected by changes in estimates and assumptions which could trigger impairment. Stock Based Compensation. We are required to estimate the fair value of share based payment awards on the date of grant. The estimated fair value of stock options and stock purchase rights granted pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan is determined using the Black Scholes valuation model which requires us to make certain assumptions about the future. Determining the estimated fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding subjective and complex variables such as expected employee exercise behavior and our expected stock price volatility over the term of the award. We estimated the following key assumptions for the Black Scholes valuation calculation: Risk free interest rate. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the option. Expected volatility. We use a combination of historical stock price volatility and implied volatility computed based on the price of options publicly traded on our common stock for our expected volatility assumption. Expected term. The expected term represents the weighted average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding. The expected term is determined based on historical exercise behavior, post vesting termination patterns, options outstanding and future expected exercise behavior. Expected dividends. Changes to our underlying stock price, our assumptions used in the Black Scholes option valuation calculation and our forfeiture rate, which is based on historical data, as well as future equity granted or assumed through acquisitions could significantly impact compensation expense to be recognized in future periods. 35 Table of Contents Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of product. Royalty based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty based obligations are generally expensed to cost of goods sold generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of goods sold. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Minimum royalty payment obligations are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next twelve months. As of March 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately $10 million and $9 million, respectively, of minimum guaranteed royalty obligations had been recognized. Each quarter, we also evaluate the future realization of our royalty based assets as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post launch are charged to cost of goods sold. In either case, we rely on estimated revenue to evaluate the future realization of prepaid royalties and commitments. If actual sales or revised revenue estimates fall below the initial revenue estimate, then the actual charge taken may be greater in any given quarter than anticipated. During fiscal 2008 and 2006, we recognized impairment charges of $4 million and $16 million, respectively. We had no impairments during fiscal 2007. Income Taxes We adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These 36 Table of Contents estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. We are also required to make determinations of the need to record deferred tax liabilities and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance is established to the extent that it is more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets will not be realized based on our estimation of future taxable income in each jurisdiction. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves accounting for uncertainties in the application of complex tax rules, regulations and practices. As a result of the implementation of FIN No. 48, we recognize benefits for uncertain tax positions based on a two step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition of a benefit (or the absence of a liability) by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position taken will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. If it is not, in our judgment, more likely than not that the position will be sustained, then we do not recognize any benefit for the position. If it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained, a second step in the process is required to estimate how much of the benefit we will ultimately receive. This second step requires that we estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, new facts, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of an audit, effective settlement of audit issues, and commencement of new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. As a result of the adoption of FIN No. 48, we expect our tax rate to be more volatile. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. Although we repatriated funds under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 in fiscal 2006, we currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 or 53 week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 contained 52 weeks and ended on March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007, respectively. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 contained 53 weeks and ended on April 1, 2006. Comparison of Fiscal 2008 to Fiscal 2007 Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods and designed for play on hardware consoles (such as the PlayStation 2, PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs and handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP, Nintendo DS and Nintendo Game Boy Advance), (2) video games for cellular handsets, (3) interactive online enabled packaged goods, digital content, and online services associated with these games, (4) services in connection with some of our online games, (5) programming third party web sites with our game content, (6) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (7) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. 37 Table of Contents During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we recognized total net revenue of $3,665 million and $3,091 million, respectively. Our total net revenue during fiscal 2008 includes $831 million recognized from sales of certain online enabled packaged goods and digital content for which we were not able to objectively determine the fair value (as defined by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for software sales) of a free online service that we provided in connection with the sale. The deferral of net revenue related to certain of our packaged goods and digital content sales, which will be recognized in future periods, decreased our reported net revenue by $355 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to the same period a year ago. From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, % 2008 2007 Increase Change North America $ 1,942 53 % $ 1,666 54 % $ 276 17 % Europe 1,541 42 % 1,261 41 % 280 22 % Asia 182 5 % 164 5 % 18 11 % International 1,723 47 % 1,425 46 % 298 21 % Total Net Revenue $ 3,665 100 % $ 3,091 100 % $ 574 19 % North America For fiscal 2008, net revenue in North America was $1,942 million, driven by sales of Rock Band, Madden NFL 08, and NCAA Football 08. Net revenue for fiscal 2008 increased 17 percent as compared to fiscal 2007. The deferral of net revenue related to certain of our packaged goods and digital content sales, which will be recognized in future periods, decreased our reported net revenue by $158 million during fiscal 2008. From an operational perspective, the increase in net revenue was driven by (1) a $445 million increase in net revenue from co publishing and distribution titles (which does not include an additional $10 million of deferred net revenue that will be recognized in future periods), and (2) a $118 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii (which does not include an additional $17 million of deferred net revenue that will be recognized in future periods). These increases were partially offset by (1) a $208 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2 (this decrease will be partially offset, however, by $29 million of deferred net revenue that will be recognized in future periods), and (2) a $105 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox. We continue to expect net revenue in North America to increase during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Europe For fiscal 2008, net revenue in Europe was $1,541 million, driven by sales of FIFA 08, Need for Speed ProStreet, and The Simpsons Game. Net revenue for fiscal 2008 increased 22 percent as compared to fiscal 2007. We estimate that foreign exchange (primarily the Euro and the British pounds sterling) increased reported net revenue by approximately $113 million, or 9 percent, for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that net revenue increased by approximately $167 million, or 13 percent, for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The deferral of net revenue related to certain of our packaged goods and digital content sales, which will be recognized in future periods, decreased our reported net revenue by $169 million during fiscal 2008. From an operational perspective the increase in net revenue was driven by (1) a $109 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3 (which does not include an additional $86 million of deferred net revenue that will be recognized in future periods), (2) $108 million of net revenue from sales of titles for the 38 Table of Contents Wii (which does not include an additional $8 million of deferred net revenue that will be recognized in future periods), and (3) a $77 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo DS. We continue to expect net revenue in Europe to increase during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Asia For fiscal 2008, net revenue in Asia was $182 million, driven by sales of Need for Speed ProStreet, The Simpsons Game, and FIFA 08. Net revenue for fiscal 2008 increased 11 percent as compared to fiscal 2007. We estimate that foreign exchange increased reported net revenue by approximately $12 million, or 7 percent, for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that net revenue increased by $6 million, or 4 percent during fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The deferral of net revenue related to certain of our packaged goods and digital content sales, which will be recognized in future periods, decreased our reported net revenue by $28 million during fiscal 2008. From an operational perspective, the increase in net revenue was driven by (1) a $12 million increase in sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3 (which does not include an additional $14 million of deferred net revenue that will be recognized in future periods), (2) $12 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii (which does not include an additional $1 million of deferred net revenue that will be recognized in future periods), and (3) an $11 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo DS. These increases were partially offset by (1) a $9 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PC (this decrease will be offset, however, by $3 million of deferred net revenue that will be recognized in future periods), (2) a $6 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox, and (3) a $6 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PSP (this decrease will be offset, however, by $4 million of deferred net revenue that will be recognized in future periods). Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for our packaged goods business consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel related costs, and (8) distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit based milestones), whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online products consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our web sites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third party properties. Cost of goods sold for our web site advertising business primarily consists of server costs. Cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): Change as a March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue % Change Revenue $ 1,805 49.3% $ 1,212 39.2% 48.9% 10.1% For fiscal 2008, cost of goods sold increased by 10.1 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to fiscal 2007. This increase was primarily due to: Higher co publishing and distribution royalty costs of approximately 8 percent as a percentage of total net revenue primarily driven by sales of Rock Band, and, to a lesser extend, other co publishing and distribution titles that have a lower gross margin, and The increase in net revenue deferrals of $355 million related to certain online enabled packaged goods and digital content. Overall, we estimate the deferral of net revenue negatively impacted cost of goods sold as a percent of total net revenue by 4 percent. As a percentage of total net revenue, the overall increase in cost of goods sold was partially offset by lower license royalty rates of approximately 1 percent as a percentage of total net revenue primarily due to a higher 39 Table of Contents proportion of sales in fiscal 2008 from our owned intellectual property franchises that have lower royalty rates as compared to fiscal 2007. Although there can be no assurance, and our actual results could differ materially, in the short term we expect our gross margin as a percentage of total net revenue to increase in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 as a result of (1) a decrease in the change in deferred net revenue related to certain online enabled packaged goods (we expense the cost of goods sold related to these transactions when delivered) and (2) a favorable mix of EA Studio revenue. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel related costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 588 16% $ 466 15% $ 122 26% As a percentage of net revenue, marketing and sales expenses were adversely impacted by our deferral of net revenue related to online enabled packaged goods and digital content during fiscal 2008. Marketing and sales expenses increased by $122 million, or 26 percent, in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $90 million in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses primarily to support our launch of new franchises and incremental spending on established franchises, as well as (2) a $23 million increase in personnel related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $54 million and $28 million in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect marketing and sales expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to higher advertising and marketing activity to support our titles. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 339 9% $ 288 9% $ 51 18% As a percentage of net revenue, general and administrative expenses were adversely impacted by our deferral of net revenue related to online enabled packaged goods and digital content during fiscal 2008. General and administrative expenses increased by $51 million, or 18 percent, in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to (1) an increase of $23 million in additional personnel related costs to help support our administrative functions worldwide, (2) an increase in contracted services associated with IT systems initiatives, professional services and business development of $21 million to support the growth of the organization, and (3) an increase in facilities related expenses of $12 million in support of our administrative functions worldwide. These increases were partially offset by a $7 million reduction in incentive based compensation expense. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in personnel related costs. 40 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel related costs, contracted services, equipment depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre launch products. Research and development expenses for our online business include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of web site content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 1,145 31% $ 1,041 34% $ 104 10% As a percentage of net revenue, research and development expenses were adversely impacted by our deferral of net revenue related to online enabled packaged goods and digital content during fiscal 2008. Research and development expenses increased by $104 million, or 10 percent, in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $93 million in additional personnel related costs primarily due to an increase in headcount and partially as a result of our acquisition of VGH, (2) higher external development costs of $32 million to support new releases such as our Union of European Football Associations EURO soccer franchise and titles from The Sims franchise, and (3) an increase in depreciation of $12 million. These increases were partially offset by a $24 million reduction in incentive based compensation expense and $6 million reduction in facilities related expenses. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in personnel related costs and a greater number of titles in development. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 34 1% $ 27 1% $ 7 26% For fiscal 2008, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, VGH and others. For fiscal 2007, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, Mythic and others. Amortization of intangibles increased by $7 million, or 26 percent, in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to our acquisition of VGH. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. We expect amortization of intangible expenses to increase in fiscal 2009 primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to our acquisition of VGH, which will be included in our results for a full year in fiscal 2009. Acquired In Process Technology Acquired in process technology charges for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 138 4% $ 3 $ 135 4500% Acquired in process technology includes the value of products in the development stage that are not considered to have reached technological feasibility or have an alternative future use. Accordingly, upon consummation of an acquisition, we generally incur a charge for the related acquired in process technology, as reflected in our 41 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. In connection with our acquisition of VGH, we incurred acquired in process technology charges of $138 million in relation to game software that had not reached technical feasibility at the date of acquisition. The fair values of VGHs products under development were determined using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows from the acquired in process technology to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations were derived from a weighted average cost of capital of 17 percent. Should the in process software not be successfully completed, completed at a higher cost, or the development efforts go beyond the timeframe estimated by management, we will not receive the full benefits anticipated from the acquisition. Benefits from the development efforts are expected to commence in fiscal years 2009 through 2011. The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal 2007 resulted from our acquisitions of Mythic and the remaining minority interest in DICE. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 103 3% $ 15 $ 88 587% In connection with our fiscal 2008 reorganization, during fiscal 2008, we incurred approximately $97 million of reorganization charges, of which $58 million was for facilities related expenses, $27 million was for other expenses including other contract termination costs as well as IT and consulting costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and $12 million was for employee related expenses. In connection with our fiscal 2006 international publishing reorganization, during fiscal 2008, we incurred approximately $6 million of employee related expenses. During fiscal 2007, restructuring charges related to our fiscal 2006 international publishing reorganization were approximately $15 million, of which $10 million was for employee related expenses. Losses on Strategic Investments Losses on strategic investments for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue $ Change % Change $ (118 ) (3% ) $ $ (118 ) N/A For fiscal 2008, we recognized $118 million of losses on strategic investments due to (1) an $81 million impairment with respect to our investment in The9, (2) a $28 million impairment with respect to our investment in Neowiz common stock, and (3) a $9 million impairment with respect to our investment in Neowiz preferred stock. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 98 3% $ 99 3% $ (1 ) (1% ) For fiscal 2008, interest and other income, net, decreased by $1 million, or 1 percent, as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily resulting from (1) an increase of $8 million in losses recognized due to foreign exchange and (2) a net decrease of $2 million in interest. These items were significantly offset by a $9 million gain recognized on sales of investments. We expect interest income to decline during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. 42 Table of Contents Income Taxes Income tax expense (benefit) for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31, Effective March 31, Effective 2008 Tax Rate 2007 Tax Rate % Change $ (53 ) (10.3% ) $ 66 48.2% (180% ) Our effective income tax benefit rate was 10.3 percent for fiscal 2008. Our income tax expense rate was 48.2 percent for fiscal 2007. For fiscal 2008, our effective income tax benefit rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent due to a number of factors, including non deductible acquisition related costs, losses on strategic investments and certain loss on facility impairment for which future tax benefit is uncertain and not more likely than not to be realized, as well as certain non deductible stock based compensation expenses. For fiscal 2007, our effective income tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent due to a number of factors, including certain non deductible stock based compensation expenses and additional charges resulting from certain non deductible acquisition related costs. Our effective income tax rates for fiscal 2009 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions (for example, we expect to incur significant intercompany tax charges in connection with our acquisition of VGH in fiscal 2009), changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, as well as changes in, or termination of, our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre tax consolidated income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. Although we repatriated funds under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 in fiscal 2006, we currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. Net Income (Loss) Net income (loss) for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue $ Change % Change $ (454 ) (12% ) $ 76 2% $ (530 ) (697% ) Net income decreased by $530 million during fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily due to (1) an increase in cost of goods sold of $593 million, (2) the net deferral of $355 million of net revenue out of fiscal 2008 and into future periods, (3) an increase of $135 million in acquired in process technology primarily due to our acquisition of VGH, (4) losses on strategic investments of $118 million, (5) an increase of $108 million in personnel related costs, (6) an increase of $90 million in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses primarily to support our launch of new franchises and incremental spending on recurring franchises, and (7) an increase of $88 million in restructuring charges primarily as a result of our fiscal 2008 reorganization. These items were partially offset by (1) an increase in $574 million in net revenue (which amount would have been $355 million higher absent the deferral of net revenue that will be recognized in future periods) and (2) $119 million lower income tax expense. 43 Table of Contents Comparison of Fiscal 2007 to Fiscal 2006 Net Revenue From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase / % 2007 2006 (Decrease) Change North America $ 1,666 54 % $ 1,584 54 % $ 82 5 % Europe 1,261 41 % 1,174 40 % 87 7 % Asia 164 5 % 193 6 % (29 ) (15 %) International 1,425 46 % 1,367 46 % 58 4 % Total Net Revenue $ 3,091 100 % $ 2,951 100 % $ 140 5 % North America For fiscal 2007, net revenue in North America was $1,666 million, driven by sales of Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, and NCAA Football 07. The increase in net revenue for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 was driven by (1) a $239 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, (2) a $95 million increase in cellular handset net revenue, and (3) $68 million in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3. These increases were partially offset by (1) a $168 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox, and (2) a $127 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2. Europe For fiscal 2007, net revenue in Europe was $1,261 million, driven primarily by sales of FIFA 07 and Need for Speed Carbon. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro and the British pounds sterling) increased reported European net revenue by approximately $57 million, or 5 percent, for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that European net revenue increased by approximately $30 million, or 2 percent, for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. The increase in net revenue for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 was driven by (1) a $90 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, and (2) a $76 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the PC. These increases were partially offset by a $101 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2. Asia For fiscal 2007, net revenue in Asia was $164 million, driven primarily by sales of Need for Speed Carbon. We estimate that changes in foreign exchange rates decreased reported net revenue in Asia by approximately $4 million, or 2 percent, for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that Asia net revenue decreased by approximately $25 million, or 13 percent, for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. The decrease in net revenue for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 was driven primarily by (1) a $21 million decrease in net revenue from co publishing and distribution titles, (2) a $13 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2, and (3) an $11 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox. These decreases were partially offset by an $11 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360. 44 Table of Contents Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): Change as a March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue % Change Revenue $ 1,212 39.2% $ 1,181 40.0% 2.6% (0.8% ) In fiscal 2007, cost of goods sold decreased by 0.8 percentage points as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to fiscal 2006. This decrease was primarily due to lower average product costs as a percentage of total net revenue primarily driven by (1) fewer returns and lower pricing actions taken, or expected to be taken, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 and (2) improved inventory management. As a result, we estimate average product costs as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by approximately 2 percent in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. As a percentage of total net revenue, the decrease in average product costs was partially offset by an estimated 1 percent increase in license royalties during fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to (1) license agreements associated with our EA SPORTS titles and (2) our acquisition of JAMDAT. This was partially offset by lower license royalties from movie based titles in fiscal 2007. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 466 15% $ 431 15% $ 35 8% Marketing and sales expenses increased by $35 million, or 8 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $17 million in stock based compensation expense recognized as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), (2) an increase of $10 million in our annual bonus expense, and (3) $10 million in additional personnel related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $9 million in our marketing, advertising, promotional and related services as a result of higher advertising in the prior year to support our product releases, primarily from our Harry Potter and BLACK franchises. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $28 million and $41 million in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 288 9% $ 215 7% $ 73 34% General and administrative expenses increased by $73 million, or 34 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to (1) an increase of $36 million in stock based compensation expense recognized as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), (2) a $14 million increase in our annual bonus expense, (3) an $11 million increase in additional personnel related costs to help support our administrative functions worldwide, and (4) an increase of $11 million in professional and contracted services in support of our technology infrastructure. 45 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 1,041 34% $ 758 26% $ 283 37% Research and development expenses increased by $283 million, or 37 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $75 million in stock based compensation expense recognized as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), (2) a $59 million increase in our annual bonus expense, (3) $54 million in additional personnel related costs, primarily due to a 14 percent increase in headcount related in part to our acquisitions of JAMDAT and Mythic, and partially to support development of games for the new generation of consoles, (4) an increase of $50 million in external development expenses primarily due to a greater number of projects in development as compared to the prior year as well as expenses in our cellular handset business resulting from our acquisition of JAMDAT, and (5) an increase of $45 million in facilities related expenses in support of our research and development functions worldwide. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 27 1% $ 7 $ 20 286% For fiscal 2007, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, Mythic and others. For fiscal 2006, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, Criterion and others. Amortization of intangibles increased by $20 million, or 286 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to our acquisitions of JAMDAT and Mythic. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Acquired In process Technology Acquired in process technology charges for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 3 $ 8 $ (5 ) (63% ) The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal 2007 resulted from our acquisitions of Mythic and the remaining minority interest in DICE. The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from our acquisition of JAMDAT. Acquired in process technology includes the value of products in the development stage that are not considered to have reached technological feasibility or have an alternative future use. Accordingly, upon consummation of these acquisitions, we incurred a charge for the acquired in process technology, as reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 15 $ 26 1% $ (11 ) (42% ) During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we recorded a total pre tax restructuring charge of $10 million, consisting entirely of one time benefits related to headcount reductions, which is included in restructuring charges in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. These headcount reductions related to our decision in 46 Table of Contents the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 to realign our resources with our product plan for fiscal 2007 and strategic opportunities for the new generation of consoles, online and mobile platforms. During fiscal 2006, restructuring charges related to the establishment of our international publishing headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland were approximately $14 million, of which $8 million was for the closure of certain United Kingdom facilities. During fiscal 2007, restructuring charges related to the establishment of our international publishing headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland were approximately $15 million, of which $10 million was for employee related expenses. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 99 3% $ 64 2% $ 35 55% For fiscal 2007, interest and other income, net, increased by $35 million, or 55 percent, as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to an increase of $30 million in interest income as a result of higher yields on our cash, cash equivalent and short term investment balances and a $7 million decrease in realized net losses recognized on investments. Income Taxes Income taxes for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions): March 31, Effective March 31, Effective 2007 Tax Rate 2006 Tax Rate % Change $ 66 48.2% $ 147 37.6% (55% ) Our effective income tax rates were 48.2 percent and 37.6 percent for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. For fiscal 2007, our effective income tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent due to a number of factors, including certain non deductible stock based compensation expenses related to SFAS No. 123(R) and additional charges resulting from certain non deductible acquisition related costs during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. For fiscal 2006, our effective income tax rate is higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent for fiscal 2006 due to a number of factors, including the repatriation of foreign earnings in connection with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and additional charges resulting from certain non deductible acquisition related costs during the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006, which were partially offset by other items. Net Income Net income for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 was as follows (in millions): March 31, % of Net March 31, % of Net 2007 Revenue 2006 Revenue $ Change % Change $ 76 2% $ 236 8% $ (160 ) (68% ) Net income decreased by $160 million, or 68 percent, in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. The decrease was due to a $395 million increase in our operating expenses primarily due to (1) an increase of $128 million in stock based compensation expense recognized as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), (2) an $83 million increase in our annual bonus expense, and (3) a $75 million increase in additional personnel related costs due to an increase in headcount (related in part to our acquisitions and growth in our EA Mobile business). These increases in operating expenses were mitigated by (1) a $140 million increase in net revenue and (2) an $81 million decrease in our income tax provision. 47 Table of Contents Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop those assumptions. Fair value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) 157 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13 and FSP FAS 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157. These FSPs (1) defer the effective date in SFAS No. 157 for one year for certain nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually), (2) exclude certain leasing transactions accounted for under SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, from the scope of Statement 157, and (3) include several specific examples of items eligible or not eligible for the one year deferral. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. FSP FAS 157 1 is effective upon the initial adoption of SFAS No. 157. FSP FAS 157 2 defers the effective date of certain provisions of SFAS No. 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years for items within the scope of the FSP. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157, FSP FAS 157 1 and FSP FAS 157 2 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. It also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. The provisions of SFAS No. 159 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. This Statement should not be applied retrospectively to fiscal years beginning prior to the effective date, except as permitted with early adoption. We are evaluating whether to adopt SFAS No. 159 and what impact the adoption would have on our Consolidated Financial Statements if we were to adopt it. If we adopt SFAS No. 159, it could have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In June 2007, the FASB ratified the Emerging Issues Task Forces (EITF) consensus conclusion on EITF 07 03, Accounting for Advance Payments for Goods or Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development. EITF 07 03 addresses the diversity which exists with respect to the accounting for the non refundable portion of a payment made by a research and development entity for future research and development activities. Under this conclusion, an entity is required to defer and capitalize non refundable advance payments made for research and development activities until the related goods are delivered or the related services are performed. EITF 07 03 is effective for interim or annual reporting periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007 and requires prospective application for new contracts entered into after the effective date. The adoption of EITF 07 03 will not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007) (SFAS No. 141(R)), Business Combinations, which requires the recognition of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in an acquiree at the acquisition date fair value with limited exceptions. SFAS No. 141(R) will change the accounting treatment for certain specific items and includes a substantial number of new disclosure requirements. SFAS No. 141(R) applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements for material acquisitions consummated on or after March 29, 2009. 48 Table of Contents In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements An Amendment of ARB No. 51, which establishes new accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interest (minority interest) and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 also includes expanded disclosure requirements regarding the interests of the parent and its noncontrolling interest. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 160 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2007, the FASB ratified EITF consensus conclusion on EITF 07 01, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements. EITF 07 01 defines collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting requirements for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between participants in the arrangement and third parties. Under this conclusion, a participant to a collaborative arrangement should disclose information about the nature and purpose of its collaborative arrangements, the rights and obligations under the collaborative arrangements, the accounting policy for collaborative arrangements, and the income statement classification and amounts attributable to transactions arising from the collaborative arrangement between participants for each period an income statement is presented. EITF 07 01 is effective for interim or annual reporting periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and requires retrospective application to all prior periods presented for all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date. While we have not yet completed our analysis, we do not anticipate the implementation of EITF 07 01 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities An Amendment of SFAS No. 133. SFAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities, including how an entity uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. The provisions of SFAS No. 161 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 161 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, Increase / (In millions) 2008 2007 (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,553 $ 1,371 $ 182 Short term investments 734 1,264 (530 ) Marketable equity securities 729 341 388 Total $ 3,016 $ 2,976 $ 40 Percentage of total assets 50 % 58 % Year Ended March 31, Increase / (In millions) 2008 2007 (Decrease) Cash provided by operating activities $ 338 $ 397 $ (59 ) Cash used in investing activities (429 ) (487 ) 58 Cash provided by financing activities 243 190 53 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 30 29 1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 182 $ 129 $ 53 49 Table of Contents Changes in Cash Flow During fiscal 2008, we generated $338 million of cash from operating activities as compared to $397 million for fiscal 2007. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 was primarily due to (1) an increase in operating expenses paid resulting from an increase in advertising and marketing costs, external development expenses and personnel related expenses and (2) a $90 million increase in incentive based cash compensation paid in fiscal 2008 which were earned with respect to fiscal 2007 performance. These decreases were significantly offset by higher net revenue collected during fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. For fiscal 2008, we generated $2,306 million of cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short term investments and $192 million in proceeds from sales of common stock through our stock based compensation plans. Our primary use of cash in non operating activities consisted of (1) $1,739 million used to purchase short term investments, (2) $607 million for the acquisition of VGH, and (3) $277 million used to purchase marketable equitable securities and other investments. Short term investments and marketable equity securities Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short term interest rates. As of March 31, 2008, our short term investments had gross unrealized gains of $9 million, or 1 percent of the total in short term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. Marketable equity securities increased to $729 million as of March 31, 2008, from $341 million as of March 31, 2007, primarily due to (1) an increase of $251 million in the fair value of our investment in Ubisoft Entertainment, (2) our $167 million investment in The9, and (3) our $83 million common stock investment in Neowiz. These increases were partially offset by (1) an $81 million impairment recognized on The9 investment and (2) a $28 million impairment recognized on the Neowiz common stock investment. In addition to the Neowiz common stock investment noted above, we made a $27 million preferred stock investment in Neowiz which is classified in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We recognized a $9 million impairment on our Neowiz preferred stock investment. Receivables, net Our gross accounts receivable balances were $544 million and $470 million as of March 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in our accounts receivable balance was primarily due to higher sales volumes during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Reserves for sales returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts increased in absolute dollars from $214 million as of March 31, 2007 to $238 million as of March 31, 2008. As a percentage of trailing nine month net revenue, reserves decreased from 8 percent as of March 31, 2007, to 7 percent as of March 31, 2008. We believe these reserves are adequate based on historical experience and our current estimate of potential returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts. Inventories Inventories increased to $168 million as of March 31, 2008 from $62 million as of March 31, 2007, primarily as a result of (1) $64 million in Rock Band inventory, of which approximately $43 million was in transit as of March 31, 2008, and (2) the overall growth of our business. 50 Table of Contents Other current assets Other current assets increased to $290 million as of March 31, 2008, from $219 million as of March 31, 2007, primarily due to the reclassification as an asset held for sale of our facility in Chertsey, England from property and equipment, net, to other current assets. Other assets Other assets increased to $157 million as of March 31, 2008, from $96 million as of March 31, 2007, primarily due to (1) $19 million higher prepaid royalties, (2) higher other investments of $15 million substantially resulting from our purchase of Neowiz preferred stock, and (3) $13 million of prepaid taxes reclassified from current assets. Accounts payable Accounts payable increased to $229 million as of March 31, 2008, from $180 million as of March 31, 2007, primarily due to higher inventory purchases related to Rock Band. Accrued and other current liabilities Our accrued and other liabilities decreased to $683 million as of March 31, 2008 from $814 million as of March 31, 2007. The decrease was primarily due to (1) $273 million of current income taxes accrued being reclassified to non current tax obligations as a result of our adoption of FIN No. 48 (see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), and (2) a decrease of $32 million in accrued incentive based compensation. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $106 million in royalties payable primarily due to Rock Band. Deferred income taxes, net Our net deferred income tax asset position increased by $197 million as of March 31, 2008 as compared to March 31, 2007 primarily due to increases of (1) $76 million in deferred taxes related to current year tax provision, (2) $53 million in deferred taxes related to our acquisition of VGH, (3) $43 million in deferred tax assets related to our adoption of FIN No. 48 and current year activities, and (4) $25 million in deferred tax assets related to stock based compensation. Financial Condition We believe that cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable equity securities, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures and, potentially, future acquisitions or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. On March 13, 2008, we commenced an unsolicited $26.00 per share cash tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of Take Two Interactive Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Take Two), for a total purchase price of approximately $2.1 billion. On April 18, 2008, we adjusted the purchase price in the cash tender offer to $25.74 per share following the approval by Take Two stockholders of amendments to Take Twos Incentive Stock Plan, which would permit the issuance of additional shares of restricted stock to ZelnickMedia Corporation pursuant to its management agreement with Take Two. The total aggregate purchase price for Take Two did not change as a result of the adjustment to the per share purchase price in the tender offer. On May 9, 2008, we received a commitment from certain financial institutions to provide us with up to $1.0 billion of senior unsecured term loan financing at any time until January 9, 2009, to be used to provide a portion of the funds for the offer and or merger. We will be required to repay any funds we borrow under the term loan 51 Table of Contents facility, plus accrued interest, on the earlier of (a) 364 days from the date on which we initially borrow the funds and (b) August 9, 2009. On May 19, 2008, we extended the expiration date of the tender offer until June 16, 2008. We intend to pay for the Take Two shares and related transaction fees and expenses with internally available cash and borrowings under the term loan facility or other financing sources, which may be available to us in the future. The loan financing arrangements supporting our Redwood City headquarters leases with Keybank National Association, described in the Off Balance Sheet Commitments section below, are scheduled to expire in July 2009. At any time prior to the expiration of the financing in July 2009, we may re negotiate the lease and the related financing arrangement. Upon expiration of the leases, we may purchase the facilities for $247 million, or arrange for a sale of the facilities to a third party. In the event of a sale to a third party, if the sale price is less than $247 million, we will be obligated to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $247 million, up to maximum of $222 million, subject to certain provisions of the leases. As of March 31, 2008, approximately $1,357 million of our cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and marketable equity securities that was generated from operations was domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings up to a total amount of $2 billion. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts and, if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products on new platforms and new versions of our products on existing platforms, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non employee software developers (independent artists or third party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, UEFA and FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited) (professional soccer); NASCAR (stock car racing); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR and Tiger Woods (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry Potter and Batman); New 52 Table of Contents Line Productions and Saul Zaentz Company (The Lord of the Rings); Red Bear Inc. (John Madden); National Football League Properties and PLAYERS Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football and basketball); Viacom Consumer Products (The Godfather); ESPN (content in EA SPORTStm games); Twentieth Century Fox Licensing and Merchandising (The Simpsons); and Hasbro, Inc. (a wide array of Hasbro intellectual properties). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non royalty bearing licenses and services agreements, and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of March 31, 2008, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Commercial Contractual Obligations Commitments Developer/ Letter of Credit, Licensor Bank and Other Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Leases(1) Commitments(2) Marketing Guarantees Total 2009 $ 62 $ 176 $ 66 $ 6 $ 310 2010 50 183 42 275 2011 40 298 38 376 2012 33 147 38 218 2013 26 134 38 198 Thereafter 53 612 155 820 Total $ 264 $ 1,550 $ 377 $ 6 $ 2,197 (1) See discussion on operating leases in the Off Balance Sheet Commitments section below for additional information. Lease commitments include contractual rental commitments of $13 million under real estate leases for unutilized office space resulting from our restructuring activities. These amounts, net of estimated future sub lease income, were expensed in the periods of the related restructuring and are included in our accrued and other current liabilities reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2008. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Developer/licensor commitments include $10 million of commitments to developers or licensors that have been recorded in current and long term liabilities and a corresponding amount in current and long term assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2008 because payment is not contingent upon performance by the developer or licensor. The amounts represented in the table above reflect our minimal cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be expensed in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to what is included in the table above, as discussed in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48. As of March 31, 2008, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $360 million, of which approximately $41 million is offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution. For the remaining liability, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. Related Person Transaction Prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of Electronic Arts, John Riccitiello was a Founder and Managing Director of Elevation Partners, L.P., and also served as Chief Executive Officer of VGH, which we acquired in 53 Table of Contents January 2008. At the time of the acquisition, Mr. Riccitiello held an indirect financial interest in VGH resulting from his interest in the entity that controlled Elevation Partners, L.P. and his interest in a limited partner of Elevation Partners, L.P. Elevation Partners, L.P. was a significant stockholder of VGH. As a result of the acquisition, Mr. Riccitiellos financial returns related to these interests, including returns of deemed capital contributions, have been $2.4 million to date (some of which Mr. Riccitiello could be required to return depending on the performance of the Elevation entities), and could be up to an additional $1.6 million plus any interest or other amounts earned thereon. This amount could be reduced, however, by a variety of factors, including investment losses of Elevation, if any, as well as certain expenses of Elevation that could offset partnership profits. Upon his separation from Elevation Partners, L.P., Mr. Riccitiello ceased to have any further control or influence over these factors. From the commencement of negotiations with VGH, at the direction of EAs Board of Directors, EAs Audit Committee engaged directly with EA management (independently from Mr. Riccitiello) to analyze and consider the potential benefits, risks and material terms of the acquisition. EAs Board of Directors approved the acquisition after reviewing with EAs management and members of the Audit Committee the terms of the acquisition and the potential benefits and risks thereof, as well as Mr. Riccitiellos personal financial interest in VGH and the acquisition. Mr. Riccitiello recused himself from the Board of Directors meeting during the Boards deliberation of the acquisition and he did not vote on the acquisition. OFF BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS We lease certain of our current facilities, furniture and equipment under non cancelable operating lease agreements. We are required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and will be required to pay any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. In February 1995, we entered into a build to suit lease (Phase One Lease) with a third party lessor for our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California (Phase One Facilities). The Phase One Facilities comprise a total of approximately 350,000 square feet and provide space for sales, marketing, administration and research and development functions. In July 2001, the lessor refinanced the Phase One Lease with Keybank National Association through July 2006. The Phase One Lease expires in January 2039, subject to early termination in the event the underlying financing between the lessor and its lenders is not extended. Subject to certain terms and conditions, we may purchase the Phase One Facilities or arrange for the sale of the Phase One Facilities to a third party. Pursuant to the terms of the Phase One Lease, we have an option to purchase the Phase One Facilities at any time for a purchase price of $132 million. In the event of a sale to a third party, if the sale price is less than $132 million, we will be obligated to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $132 million, up to a maximum of $117 million, subject to certain provisions of the Phase One Lease, as amended. On May 26, 2006, the lessor extended its loan financing underlying the Phase One Lease with its lenders through July 2007, and on May 14, 2007, the lenders extended this financing again for an additional year through July 2008. On April 14, 2008, the lenders extended the financing for another year through July 2009. At any time prior to the expiration of the financing in July 2009, we may re negotiate the lease and the related financing arrangement. We account for the Phase One Lease arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, as amended. In December 2000, we entered into a second build to suit lease (Phase Two Lease) with Keybank National Association for a five and one half year term beginning in December 2000 to expand our Redwood City, California headquarters facilities and develop adjacent property (Phase Two Facilities). Construction of the Phase Two Facilities was completed in June 2002. The Phase Two Facilities comprise a total of approximately 310,000 square feet and provide space for sales, marketing, administration and research and development functions. Subject to certain terms and conditions, we may purchase the Phase Two Facilities or arrange for the sale of the Phase Two Facilities to a third party. 54 Table of Contents Pursuant to the terms of the Phase Two Lease, we have an option to purchase the Phase Two Facilities at any time for a purchase price of $115 million. In the event of a sale to a third party, if the sale price is less than $115 million, we will be obligated to reimburse the difference between the actual sale price and $115 million, up to a maximum of $105 million, subject to certain provisions of the Phase Two Lease, as amended. On May 26, 2006, the lessor extended the Phase Two Lease through July 2009 subject to early termination in the event the underlying loan financing between the lessor and its lenders is not extended. Concurrently with the extension of the lease, the lessor extended the loan financing underlying the Phase Two Lease with its lenders through July 2007. On May 14, 2007, the lenders extended this financing again for an additional year through July 2008. On April 14, 2008, the lenders extended the financing for another year through July 2009. At any time prior to the expiration of the financing in July 2009, we may re negotiate the lease and the related financing arrangement. We account for the Phase Two Lease arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, as amended. We believe that, as of March 31, 2008, the estimated fair values of both properties under these operating leases exceeded their respective guaranteed residual values. The two lease agreements with Keybank National Association described above require us to maintain certain financial covenants as shown below, all of which we were in compliance with as of March 31, 2008. Actual as of Financial Covenants Requirement March 31, 2008 Consolidated Net Worth (in millions) equal to or greater than $ 2,430 $ 4,339 Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio equal to or greater than 3.00 3.88 Total Consolidated Debt to Capital equal to or less than 60 % 5.4 % Quick Ratio Q1 Q2 equal to or greater than 1.00 N/A Q3 Q4 equal to or greater than 1.75 7.71 In February 2006, we entered into an agreement with an independent third party to lease a facility in Guildford, Surrey, United Kingdom, which commenced in June 2006 and will expire in May 2016. The facility comprises a total of approximately 95,000 square feet, which we use for administrative, sales and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is approximately $33 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. In June 2004, we entered into a lease agreement, amended in December 2005, with an independent third party for a studio facility in Orlando, Florida. The lease commenced in January 2005 and expires in June 2010, with one five year option to extend the lease term. The campus facilities comprise a total of 140,000 square feet and provide space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation over the initial five and a half year term of the lease is $15 million. In July 2003, we entered into a lease agreement with an independent third party (the Landlord) for a studio facility in Los Angeles, California, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013 with two five year options to extend the lease term. Additionally, we have options to purchase the property after five and ten years based on the fair market value of the property at the date of sale, a right of first offer to purchase the property upon terms offered by the Landlord, and a right to share in the profits from a sale of the property. Existing campus facilities comprise a total of 243,000 square feet and provide space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is $50 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. This commitment is offset by expected sublease income of $6 million for a sublease to an affiliate of the Landlord of 18,000 square feet of the Los Angeles facility, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013, with options of early termination by either party after October 2008. In October 2002, we entered into a lease agreement, with an independent third party for a studio facility in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, which commenced in May 2003 and expires in April 2013. We amended the lease in October 2003. The facility comprises a total of approximately 65,000 square feet and provides space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is approximately $16 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. 55 Table of Contents Director Indemnity Agreements We entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. INFLATION We believe the impact of inflation on our results of operations has not been significant in any of the past three fiscal years. Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk We are exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and market prices. Market risk is the potential loss arising from changes in market rates and market prices. We employ established policies and practices to manage these risks. Foreign exchange option and forward contracts are used to hedge anticipated exposures or mitigate some existing exposures subject to foreign exchange risk as discussed below. We have not historically, nor do we currently, hedge our short term investment portfolio. We do not consider our cash and cash equivalents to be exposed to significant interest rate risk because our cash and cash equivalent portfolio consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report). We also do not currently hedge our market price risk relating to our equity investments. Further, we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report). Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Cash Flow Hedging Activities. From time to time, we hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk related to forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and expense transactions by purchasing option contracts that generally have maturities of 15 months or less. These transactions are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The derivative assets associated with our hedging activities are recorded at fair value in other current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity and subsequently reclassified into net revenue or operating expenses, as appropriate in the period when the forecasted transaction is recorded. The ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reported in each period in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements in revenue and operating expenses. As of March 31, 2008, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $48 million in foreign currencies and to sell approximately $254 million of foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2008, these foreign currency option contracts outstanding had a total fair value of $5 million, included in other current assets. As of March 31, 2007, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $28 million in foreign currencies and to sell approximately $72 million of foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2007, these foreign currency option contracts outstanding had a total fair value of less than $1 million, included in other current assets. Balance Sheet Hedging Activities. We use foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, primarily intercompany receivables and payables. The forward contracts generally have a contractual term of three months or less and are transacted near month end. Our foreign exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133 and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts are reported as other current assets or other current liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and gains and losses 56 Table of Contents from changes in fair value are reported in interest and other income, net. The gains and losses on these forward contracts generally offset the gains and losses on the underlying foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, which are also reported in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In certain cases, the amount of such gains and losses will significantly differ from the amount of gains and losses recognized on the underlying foreign currency denominated asset or liability, in which case our results will be impacted. As of March 31, 2008, we had forward foreign exchange contracts to purchase and sell approximately $540 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $479 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $13 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for British pounds sterling and $48 million to purchase foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars. As of March 31, 2007, we had forward foreign exchange contracts to purchase and sell approximately $104 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $73 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $8 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for British pounds sterling and $23 million to purchase foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars. The fair value of our forward contracts was immaterial as of March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007. The counterparties to these forward and option contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks; therefore, the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not considered to be material. Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. As of March 31, 2008, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would have resulted in a potential loss in fair value of our option contracts used in cash flow hedging of $4 million in both scenarios. As of March 31, 2007, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement would have resulted in a potential loss in fair value of our option contracts used in cash flow hedging of $1 million in both scenarios. A hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would have resulted in potential losses on our forward contracts used in balance sheet hedging of $56 million and $82 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2008, and $9 million and $14 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2007. This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Exchange rates do not always move in the same direction. Actual results may differ materially. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our short term investment portfolio. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities. However, because short term securities mature relatively quickly and are required to be reinvested at the then current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of short term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term securities. Additionally, the contractual terms of the securities do not permit the issuer to call, prepay or otherwise settle the securities at prices less than the stated par value of the securities. Our investments are held for purposes other than trading. Also, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our short term investment portfolio. As of March 31, 2008 and 2007, our short term investments were classified as available for sale and, consequently, recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in 57 Table of Contents stockholders equity. Our portfolio of short term investments consisted of the following investment categories, summarized by fair value as of March 31, 2008 and 2007 (in millions): As of March 31, 2008 2007 U.S. agency securities $ 266 $ 264 Corporate bonds 231 226 U.S. Treasury securities 161 92 Asset backed securities 64 108 Commercial paper 12 574 Total short term investments $ 734 $ 1,264 Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. At any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2008, arising from potential changes in interest rates. The modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. Valuation of Securities Fair Value Valuation of Securities Given an Interest Rate as of Given an Interest Rate Decrease of X Basis Points March 31, Increase of X Basis Points (In millions) (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 2008 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS U.S. agency securities $ 273 $ 270 $ 268 $ 266 $ 263 $ 261 $ 258 Corporate bonds 235 234 233 231 230 229 227 U.S. Treasury securities 166 164 163 161 160 158 156 Asset backed securities 64 64 64 64 64 63 63 Commercial paper 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 Total short term investments $ 750 $ 744 $ 740 $ 734 $ 729 $ 723 $ 716 The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2007, arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. Valuation of Securities Fair Value Valuation of Securities Given an Interest Rate as of Given an Interest Rate Decrease of X Basis Points March 31, Increase of X Basis Points (In millions) (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 2007 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS Commercial paper $ 575 $ 575 $ 574 $ 574 $ 573 $ 573 $ 572 U.S. agency securities 271 269 267 264 262 259 257 Corporate bonds 231 230 228 226 225 223 222 Asset backed securities 110 109 108 108 107 106 105 U.S. Treasury securities 95 94 94 92 92 91 90 Total short term investments $ 1,282 $ 1,277 $ 1,271 $ 1,264 $ 1,259 $ 1,252 $ 1,246 Market Price Risk The value of our equity investments in publicly traded companies is subject to market price volatility and foreign currency risk for investments denominated in foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2008 and 2007, our marketable equity securities were classified as available for sale and, consequently, were recorded in our 58 Table of Contents Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in stockholders equity. The fair value of our marketable equity securities was $729 million and $341 million as of March 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In fiscal 2008, we recognized an other than temporary impairment loss of $109 million. At any time, a sharp change in market prices in our investments in marketable equity securities could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. The following table presents hypothetical changes in the fair value of our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2008, arising from changes in market prices plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent and 75 percent. Valuation of Securities Valuation of Securities Given an X Percentage Given an X Percentage Decrease in Each Fair Value Increase in Each Stocks Market Price as of Stocks Market Price (In millions) (75%) (50%) (25%) March 31, 2008 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 182 $ 365 $ 547 $ 729 $ 911 $ 1,094 $ 1,276 The following table presents hypothetical changes in the fair value of our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2007, arising from changes in market prices plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent and 75 percent. Valuation of Securities Valuation of Securities Given an X Percentage Given an X Percentage Decrease in Each Fair Value Increase in Each Stocks Market Price as of Stocks Market Price (In millions) (75%) (50%) (25%) March 31, 2007 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 85 $ 171 $ 256 $ 341 $ 426 $ 512 $ 597 59 Table of Contents 
 
