Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW The following overview is a top level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10 K, including in the Business section and the Risk Factors above, the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute video game software and content that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION&reg; 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii), personal computers, handheld game players (such as the PlayStation&reg; Portable (PSP) and the Nintendo DS) and wireless devices (such as cellular phones and smart phones including the Apple iPhone). Some of our games are based on content that we license from others (e.g., Madden NFL Football, Harry Potter and FIFA Soccer), and some of our games are based on our own wholly owned intellectual property (e.g., The Sims, Need for Speed, Dead Space and Pogo). Our goal is to publish titles with global mass market appeal, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in non English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game franchises that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property. Examples of this franchise approach are the annual iterations of our sports based products (e.g., Madden NFL Football, NCAA&reg; Football and FIFA Soccer), wholly owned properties that can be successfully sequeled (e.g., The Sims, Need for Speed and Battlefield) and titles based on long lived literary and or movie properties (e.g., The Godfather&reg; and Harry Potter). Special Note Regarding Deferred Net Revenue Many of our software products are developed with the ability to connect to the Internet. Depending on the type of product, this feature permits consumers to play against others via the Internet and or receive additional updates or content from us. For those games that consumers can play via the Internet, we may provide a matchmaking online service which permits consumers to connect with other consumers to play against each other. In those situations where we do not separately sell this online service, we account for the sale of the software product as a bundle sale, or multiple element arrangement, in which we sell both the software product and the online service for one combined price. Through fiscal year 2007, for accounting purposes, VSOE existed for the online service. Accordingly, we allocated the revenue collected from the sale of the software product between the online service offered and the software product and recognized the amounts allocated to each element separately. However, starting in fiscal year 2008, VSOE did not exist for the online service and we began to recognize all of the revenue from the sale of these bundle sales on a deferred basis over an estimated online service period, which we estimate to be six months beginning in the month after shipment. In addition, we also provide updates or additional content (digital content) for some software products to be delivered via the Internet. For some software products, at the date of sale we had an obligation to make available for download via the Internet incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional fee. In those transactions, we also accounted for the sale of the software product as a bundle sale and recognized the revenue on a deferred basis over the period in which we expect to make available the incremental unspecified digital content. On a quarterly basis, the deferral amount will vary significantly depending upon the number of titles we release, the timing of their release, sales volume, returns and price protection provided for these online enabled software products. In addition, we expense the cost of goods sold related to these transactions during the period in which the product is delivered (rather than on a deferred basis), which inherently creates volatility in our reported gross profit percentages. 28 Table of Contents Financial Results Total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 was $4,212 million, up $547 million as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. At March 31, 2008, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $355 million as compared to March 31, 2007, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the year ended March 31, 2008. At March 31, 2009, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online enabled packaged goods and digital content decreased by $126 million as compared to March 31, 2008, directly increasing the amount of reported net revenue during the year ended March 31, 2009. Without these changes in deferred net revenue, reported net revenue increased by approximately $66 million during fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008. Fiscal year 2009 net revenue was driven primarily by Rock Band 2 and Spore. Net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 was $1,088 million as compared to a net loss of $454 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Diluted loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 was $3.40 as compared to a diluted loss per share of $1.45 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Net loss increased for fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 primarily as a result of (1) the recognition of $368 million of goodwill impairment for our EA Mobile reporting unit, (2) recognition of $362 million related to an increase in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, of which $232 million related to U.S. deferred tax assets that existed as of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, (3) a $322 million increase in cost of goods sold, and (4) a $317 million increase in research and development and marketing and sales costs. These were partially offset by (1) an increase of $547 million in net revenue due to increased sales of our games and (2) a decrease of $135 million in acquired in process technology primarily due to our acquisition of VGH in 2008. During fiscal year 2009, we generated $12 million of cash in operating activities as compared to generating $338 million for fiscal year 2008. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to an increase in external development costs, marketing and advertising costs and personnel related expenses. Trends in Our Business Economic Environment. As a result of the national and global economic downturn, overall consumer spending has declined. Retailers globally have taken a more conservative stance in ordering game inventory. The decrease in retail orders contributed to the decline in anticipated demand for our products during the 2008 holiday selling season. We remain cautious about our future sales in light of the current economic environment and the impact it has had on our retailers. Current Generation Game Consoles. Video game hardware systems have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical as well. The current cycle began with Microsofts launch of the Xbox 360 in 2005, and continued in 2006 when Sony and Nintendo launched their next generation systems, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii, respectively. Unlike past cycles, we believe this current cycle may be extended, partly due to the growth of online services and content, and the greater graphic and processing power of the current generation hardware. As a result, we expect the growth in the installed base of the Xbox 360, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii to slow down as we enter the back half of this cycle. Therefore, in light of the current economic environment and where we stand in the current generation console cycle, our industry may experience slower growth than in recent years. Online Content and Services. In addition to selling packaged goods games, we also provide a variety of electronically delivered products and services. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also available by direct electronic download through the Internet (from websites that we maintain and others that we license). We also offer electronically delivered content and services that are add ons or related to our packaged goods products (e.g., game enhancements or matchmaking services), and other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery (such as games for wireless devices, and Internet only games and game services). Electronically delivered content and services are offered to consumers as subscription services, electronic downloads for a one time fee, or on an advertising supported basis. We have made 29 Table of Contents significant investments in electronically delivered content and services, and we believe that this will become an increasingly important part of our business over time. Mobile Platforms. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving platforms for on the go interactive entertainment that appeal to a broad consumer base. Our efforts in mobile interactive entertainment are focused in two areas packaged goods games for handheld game systems and downloadable games for wireless devices. We expect sales of games for wireless devices to continue to be an important part of our business worldwide. Recent Developments Fiscal 2009 Cost Reduction Plan. In fiscal year 2009, we announced details of a cost reduction plan. This plan includes a narrowing of our product portfolio, a reduction in our worldwide workforce of approximately 11 percent, or 1,100 employees, the closure of 10 facilities, and reductions in other variable costs and capital expenditures. We consolidated and reorganized two of our Labels, The Sims and EA Casual Entertainment into the EA Play Label in order to capture synergies and generate greater efficiencies between the two Labels. We now have three Labels EA Games, EA SPORTS and EA Play. We believe a more focused product portfolio and a reduction in total operating expenses are better strategies for operating in the current environment. International Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Impact. International sales are a fundamental part of our business. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 43 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2009 and approximately 47 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2008. Our international net revenue was primarily driven by sales in Europe and, to a much lesser extent, in Asia. We believe that in order to succeed internationally, it is important to locally develop content that is specifically directed toward local cultures and customs. Year over year, we estimate that foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on our net revenue of approximately $30 million, or 1 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other currencies, including the Euro and the British pound sterling. In addition, our international investments and our cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency. If the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen against these currencies, then foreign exchange rates may continue to have an unfavorable impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. Goodwill Impairment. Adverse economic conditions, including the decline in our market capitalization and our expected financial performance, indicated that a potential impairment of goodwill existed during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. As a result, we performed goodwill impairment tests for our reporting units in accordance with SFAS No. 142, and concluded the EA Mobile reporting units goodwill was impaired. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $368 million related to our EA Mobile reporting unit. Substantially all of our goodwill associated with our EA Mobile reporting unit was derived from our acquisition of JAMDAT Mobile Inc. in February 2006. Deferred Income Tax Valuation Allowance. We account for income taxes under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax loss and tax credit carry forwards. SFAS No. 109 additionally requires that a valuation allowance must be established against deferred tax assets when, for purposes of SFAS No. 109, it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required under SFAS No. 109 to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. SFAS No. 109 provides that it is difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the recent deterioration of the economic environment. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In making our assessment, we are also required to consider the scheduled reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, carry back of future deductible amounts allowed under current tax law, and tax planning strategies. Based on these requirements, we 30 Table of Contents have recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets, consisting of $232 million related to deferred tax assets that existed as of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, plus an additional $134 million against deferred tax assets recorded during fiscal year 2009. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggests that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs, handheld game players (such as the PSP and Nintendo DS), and wireless devices (such as cellular phones and smart phones including the Apple iPhone). We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in Statement of Position (SOP) 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98 9, Modification of SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions and Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, Revenue Recognition. We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement. Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products that must be present in order to recognize revenue. Delivery. Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. For online game services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided. For digital downloads that do not have an online service component, delivery is considered to occur generally when the download is made available. Fixed or determinable fee. If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable. We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection). Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and management judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report in each period. For example, for multiple element arrangements, we must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered, (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services, (3) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver. Changes to any of these assumptions or management judgments, or changes to the elements in a software arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. For example, in connection with some of our packaged goods product sales, we offer an online service without an additional fee. Prior to fiscal year 2008, we were able to determine VSOE for the online service to be delivered; therefore, we were able to allocate the total price received from the combined product and online service sale between these two elements and recognize the related revenue separately. However, starting in fiscal 31 Table of Contents year 2008, VSOE no longer existed for the online service to be delivered for certain platforms and all revenue from these transactions is recognized over the estimated online service period. More specifically, starting in fiscal year 2008, we began to recognize the revenue from sales of certain online enabled packaged goods on a straight line basis over a six month period beginning in the month after shipment. Accordingly, this relatively small change (from having VSOE for the online service to no longer having VSOE) has had a significant effect on our reported results. In addition, for some software products we also provide updates or additional content (digital content) to be delivered via the Internet that can be used with the original software product. In many cases we separately sell digital content for an additional fee; however some purchased digital content can only be accessed via the Internet (i.e., the consumer never takes possession of the digital content). We account for online transactions in which the consumer does not take possession of the digital content as a service transaction and, accordingly, we recognize the associated revenue over the estimated service period. In other transactions, at the date we sell the software product we have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. In these cases, we account for the sale of the software product as a multiple element arrangement and recognize the revenue on a straight line basis over the estimated life of the game. Determining whether a transaction constitutes an online service transaction or a digital content download of a product requires judgment and can be difficult. The accounting for these transactions is significantly different. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download is made available (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). Revenue from an online game service is recognized as the service is rendered. If the service period is not defined, we recognize the revenue over the estimated service period. Determining the estimated service period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. In addition, determining whether we have an implicit obligation to provide incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional fee can be difficult. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors (channel partners), is recognized when the above criteria are met. We reduce product revenue for estimated future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. Price protection represents the right to receive a credit allowance in the event we lower our wholesale price on a particular product. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old price and the new price. In certain countries, we have stock balancing programs for our PC and video game system software products, which allow for the exchange of these software products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange software products or give credits rather than to give cash refunds. In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for our software products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell through of distributor and retailer inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game segment, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. For example, the risk of product returns and or price protection for our software products may continue to increase as the PlayStation 2 console moves through its lifecycle. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates changed, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our reported total net revenue. In addition, if our estimates of returns and price protection related to online enabled packaged goods software products change, the amount of net deferred revenue we recognize in the future would change. 32 Table of Contents Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the conclusion on the appropriate accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets and acquired in process technology, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the delayed receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and, if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to the assessments: Business Combinations. We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and acquired in process technology in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various lives and acquired in process technology is expensed upon consummation. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount to recognize as goodwill, an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of acquired assets requires an assessment of the expected use of the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to extinguish the liability and determining the fair value of acquired in process technology requires an assessment of our expectations related to the timing and the successful completion of development of an acquired in process technology. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our financial statements. Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets. Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of purchased intangible assets and other long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent upon predicting which of our products will be successful. This success is dependent upon several factors, which are beyond our control, such as which operating platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. 33 Table of Contents SFAS No. 142 requires a two step approach to testing goodwill for impairment for each reporting unit annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Our reporting units are determined by the components of our operating segments that constitute a business for which both (1) discrete financial information is available and (2) segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. SFAS No. 142 requires that the impairment test be performed at least annually by applying a fair value based test. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. To determine the fair values of the reporting units used in the first step, we use a combination of the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data, and or the income approach, or discounted cash flows. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long term growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates based on our weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. These estimates and assumptions have to be made for each reporting unit evaluated for impairment. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of developing, marketing and distributing video game software using both established and emerging intellectual properties and our forecasts for emerging intellectual properties are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information and have an inherently higher risk of accuracy. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. Assessment of Impairment of Short Term Investments, Marketable Equity Securities and Other Investments. We periodically review our short term investments, marketable equity securities and other investments for impairment. Our short term investments consist of securities with remaining maturities greater than three months at the time of purchase and our marketable equity securities consist of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies, both are accounted for as available for sale under the provisions of SFAS No.115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, as amended. Unrealized gains and losses on our short term investments and marketable equity securities are recorded to other comprehensive income, net of tax, until either (1) the security is sold or (2) we determine that the decline in the fair value of a security to a level below its cost basis is other than temporary. Determining whether the decline in fair value is other than temporary requires management judgment based on the specific facts and circumstances of each security. The ultimate value realized on these securities is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. We consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the duration that the fair value has been less than the cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery period, the financial condition and near term prospects of the investees, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $57 million and $109 million, respectively, on our marketable equity securities. We did not recognize any impairment charges on our marketable equity securities during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. Our ongoing consideration of these factors could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material impact on our financial results. Our other investments consist principally of non voting preferred shares in two companies whose common stock is publicly traded and are accounted for under the cost method as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board (APB) No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, as amended. We monitor these investments for impairment and make appropriate reductions in the carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near term prospects of the investees. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $10 million and $9 million, respectively, on our other investments. We did not recognize any impairment charges during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. 34 Table of Contents Assessment of Inventory Obsolescence. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and in the retail channel. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. At the point of a loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. Stock Based Compensation We are required to estimate the fair value of share based payment awards on the date of grant. The estimated fair value of stock options and stock purchase rights granted pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan is determined using the Black Scholes valuation model which requires us to make certain assumptions about the future. Determining the estimated fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding subjective and complex variables such as expected employee exercise behavior and our expected stock price volatility over the term of the award. We estimated the following key assumptions for the Black Scholes valuation calculation: Risk free interest rate. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the option. Expected volatility. We use a combination of historical stock price volatility and implied volatility computed based on the price of options publicly traded on our common stock for our expected volatility assumption. Expected term. The expected term represents the weighted average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding. The expected term is determined based on historical exercise behavior, post vesting termination patterns, options outstanding and future expected exercise behavior. Expected dividends. Changes to our underlying stock price, our assumptions used in the Black Scholes option valuation calculation and our forfeiture rate, which is based on historical data, as well as future equity granted or assumed through acquisitions could significantly impact compensation expense to be recognized in future periods. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of product. Royalty based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty based obligations are generally expensed to cost of goods sold generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. 35 Table of Contents Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of goods sold. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. These obligations are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next twelve months. As of March 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $37 million and $10 million, respectively, of minimum guaranteed royalty obligations had been recognized. Each quarter, we also evaluate the future realization of our royalty based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post launch are charged to cost of goods sold. We evaluate long lived royalty based assets for impairment based on the provisions of SFAS No. 144 (i.e., on an undiscounted cash flow basis when impairment indicators exist). Unrecognized minimum royalty based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts and, therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned (i.e., cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. During fiscal years 2009 and 2008, we recognized loss charges of $43 million and loss and impairment charges of $4 million, respectively, related to our royalty agreements. We had no loss or impairment charges during fiscal year 2007. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under SFAS No. 109, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax loss and tax credit carry forwards. SFAS No. 109 additionally requires that a valuation allowance must be established against deferred tax assets when, for purposes of SFAS No. 109, it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required under SFAS No. 109 to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. SFAS No. 109 provides that it is difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the recent deterioration of the economic environment. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence, and involve assumptions about future activity. SFAS No. 109 provides that certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. For example, when determining the valuation allowance we recorded in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we did not include as a source of future taxable income the accumulated tax depreciation on our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California. These facilities are subject to leases which expire in July 2009, and are accounted for as operating leases in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases. If we are unable or decide not to renew these leases and instead acquire the facilities, then we would be able to include a significant portion of the 36 Table of Contents temporary differences representing approximately $46 million of deferred tax liabilities as a source of future taxable income, and we would record a corresponding reduction in our valuation allowance. Based on the assumptions and requirements noted above, we have recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets, consisting of $232 million related to deferred tax assets that existed as of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, plus an additional $134 million against deferred tax assets recorded during fiscal year 2009. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggests that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 or 53 week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 contained 52 weeks and ended on March 28, 2009, March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007, respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Comparison of Fiscal 2009 to Fiscal 2008 Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods and designed for play on hardware consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs and handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP and Nintendo DS), (2) video games for wireless devices (such as cellular phones and smart phones including the Apple iPhone), (3) interactive online enabled packaged goods, digital content, and online services associated with these games, (4) services in connection with some of our online games, (5) programming third party web sites with our game content, (6) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (7) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. During fiscal years 2009 and 2008, we recognized total net revenue of $4,212 million and $3,665 million, respectively. Our total net revenue during the fiscal years 2009 and 2008 includes $1,203 million and $831 million, respectively, recognized from sales of certain online enabled packaged goods and digital content for which we were not able to objectively determine the fair value (as defined by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for software sales) of the online service that we provided in connection with the sale 37 Table of Contents and the obligation we had to deliver incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. When we refer to deferral of net revenue in this Net Revenue section, we mean the deferral of (1) the total net revenue from bundle sales of certain online enabled packaged goods and PC digital downloads for which either we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provide in connection with the sale of the software or we have an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content, (2) revenue from certain packaged goods sales of massively multiplayer online role playing games, and (3) revenue from the sale of certain incremental content associated with our core subscription services that can only be played online, which are types of micro transactions. During the year ended March 31, 2009, we recognized $126 million of deferred net revenue, which increased our reported net revenue, as compared to the deferral of $355 million of net revenue, which decreased our reported net revenue for the year ended March 31, 2008. From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase %Change 2009 2008 North America $ 2,412 57 % $ 1,942 53 % $ 470 24 % Europe 1,589 38 % 1,541 42 % 48 3 % Asia 211 5 % 182 5 % 29 16 % International 1,800 43 % 1,723 47 % 77 4 % Total Net Revenue $ 4,212 100 % $ 3,665 100 % $ 547 15 % The overall change in deferred net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase /(Decrease) 2009 2008 PLAYSTATION 3 $ 65 $ (180 ) $ 245 PlayStation 2 47 (49 ) 96 PSP 23 (46 ) 69 PC (3 ) (52 ) 49 Wii (3 ) (27 ) 24 Other (3 ) (1 ) (2 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ 126 $ (355 ) $ 481 North America For fiscal year 2009, net revenue in North America was $2,412 million, driven by Rock Band 2, Rock Band, and Madden NFL 09. Net revenue for fiscal year 2009 increased 24 percent, or $470 million, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, the increase in net revenue was driven by (1) a $259 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii, (2) a $168 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3, and (3) an $85 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $94 million in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2. The recognition of deferred net revenue increased our reported net revenue by $50 million during the year ended March 31, 2009, as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue of $158 million for the year ended March 31, 2008. 38 Table of Contents We expect net revenue for North America to decrease during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 due to an expected increase in deferred net revenue related to our online enabled packaged goods and digital content. The change in deferred net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 for North America was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase 2009 2008 PlayStation 2 $ 27 $ (28 ) $ 55 PLAYSTATION 3 27 (73 ) 100 PSP 12 (20 ) 32 Other (16 ) (37 ) 21 Total Impact on Net Revenue $ 50 $ (158 ) $ 208 Europe For fiscal year 2009, net revenue in Europe was $1,589 million, driven by FIFA 09, Need for Speed Undercover, and Rock Band. Net revenue for fiscal year 2009 increased 3 percent, or $48 million, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective the increase in net revenue was driven by (1) a $196 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3, and (2) a $56 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360. These increases were partially offset by (1) a $159 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2, (2) a $39 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo DS, and (3) a $16 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PC. The recognition of deferred net revenue increased our reported net revenue by $68 million during the year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue due to the deferral of $169 million of net revenue for the year ended March 31, 2008. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the British pound sterling) decreased reported net revenue, including the foreign exchange impact from deferred net revenue, by approximately $19 million, or 1 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from net revenue, we estimate that net revenue increased by approximately $67 million, or 4 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. We expect net revenue for Europe to decrease during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 due to an expected increase in deferred net revenue related to our online enabled packaged goods and digital content. The change in deferred net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 for Europe was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase 2009 2008 PLAYSTATION 3 $ 34 $ (93 ) $ 127 PlayStation 2 18 (18 ) 36 PSP 10 (22 ) 32 PC 7 (30 ) 37 Other (1 ) (6 ) 5 Total Impact on Net Revenue $ 68 $ (169 ) $ 237 39 Table of Contents Asia For fiscal year 2009, net revenue in Asia was $211 million, driven by FIFA 09, Need for Speed Undercover, and Need for Speed ProStreet. Net revenue for fiscal year 2009 increased 16 percent, or $29 million, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, the increase in net revenue was driven by a $29 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3. The recognition of deferred net revenue increased our reported net revenue by $8 million during the year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue due to the deferral of $28 million of net revenue for the year ended March 31, 2008. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (particularly the Australian dollar) decreased reported net revenue, including the foreign exchange impact from deferred net revenue, by approximately $10 million, or 5 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from net revenue, we estimate that net revenue increased by approximately $39 million, or 21 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. We continue to expect net revenue for Asia to increase during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 due to continued growth, partially off set by an expected increase in deferred net revenue related to our online enabled packaged goods and digital content. The change in deferred net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 for Asia was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase 2009 2008 PLAYSTATION 3 $ 4 $ (14 ) $ 18 PlayStation 2 2 (3 ) 5 PC 1 (5 ) 6 PSP 1 (4 ) 5 Wii (2 ) 2 Total Impact on Net Revenue $ 8 $ (28 ) $ 36 Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for our packaged goods business consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel related costs, and (8) distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit based milestones), whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online products consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our web sites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third party properties. Cost of goods sold for our web site advertising business primarily consists of server costs. Cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2009 % of NetRevenue March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue % Change Change as a% of NetRevenue $2,127 50.5% $1,805 49.3% 17.8% 1.2% 40 Table of Contents For fiscal year 2009, cost of goods sold increased by 1.2 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to fiscal year 2008. This increase was primarily due to: A greater percentage of net revenue from co publishing and distribution products, which have a lower margin, as compared to our EA studio products, An increase in price protection taken or expected to be taken for products already sold, An increase in our inventory write downs as a result of future expected demand for our products, and Losses on intellectual property licensor agreements. The overall increase in cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was mitigated by a $481 million favorable change in deferred net revenue related to certain online enabled packaged goods and digital content during the twelve months ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, which positively impacted cost of goods sold as a percent of total net revenue by approximately 6 percent. Although there can be no assurance, and our actual results could differ materially, in the short term we expect our gross margin as a percentage of total net revenue to increase in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 due to anticipated margin improvements, partially off set by an expected increase in deferred net revenue related to our online enabled packaged goods and digital content. We expense the cost of goods sold related to these transactions during the period in which the product is delivered (rather than on a deferred basis). Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel related costs, related overhead costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of NetRevenue March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $691 16% $588 16% $103 18% Marketing and sales expenses increased by $103 million, or 18 percent, in fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $85 million in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses primarily to support our launch of new franchises and incremental spending on established franchises and (2) a $17 million increase in additional personnel related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount prior to actions taken under our fiscal 2009 restructuring. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $31 million and $54 million in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect marketing and sales expenses to decrease in absolute dollars in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to lower advertising and marketing activity to support our titles and a decrease in personnel related costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of NetRevenue March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $332 8% $339 9% $(7) (2%) 41 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses decreased by $7 million, or 2 percent, in fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008 primarily due to a decrease in facilities related expenses of $14 million, partially offset by an increase of $9 million in stock based compensation expense. We expect general and administrative expenses to decrease in absolute dollars in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to a decrease in personnel related costs. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, equipment depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre launch products. Research and development expenses for our online business include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of web site content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of NetRevenue March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $1,359 32% $1,145 31% $214 19% Research and development expenses increased by $214 million, or 19 percent, in fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008. The increase was primarily due to (1) higher external development costs of $120 million due to a greater number of projects in development as compared to the prior year, (2) an increase of $66 million in additional personnel related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount prior to actions taken under our fiscal year 2009 restructuring, (3) an increase of $43 million in stock based compensation expense, and (4) an increase in facilities related expenses of $8 million to support our research and development functions worldwide. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $26 million in incentive based compensation expense. We expect research and development expenses to decrease in absolute dollars in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to a decrease in personnel related costs. Acquired In Process Technology Acquired in process technology includes the value of products in the development stage that are not considered to have reached technological feasibility or have an alternative future use. Accordingly, upon consummation of an acquisition, we generally incur a charge for the related acquired in process technology, as reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Acquired in process technology charges for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of NetRevenue March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $3 $138 4% $(135) (98%) Acquired in process technology decreased by $135 million, or 98 percent, in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008, primarily due to the charge of $138 million related to our acquisition of VGH in fiscal year 2008. The development of a majority of the projects for which we incurred an acquired in process technology charge in connection with our acquisition of VGH continued to be in progress as of March 31, 2009. 42 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of NetRevenue March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $58 1% $34 1% $24 71% Amortization of intangibles increased by $24 million, or 71 percent, in fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008, primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to our acquisition of VGH. Certain Abandoned Acquisition Related Costs Certain abandoned acquisition related costs consist of costs we incurred in connection with the abandoned acquisition of Take Two. On August 18, 2008, we allowed our tender offer for Take Two shares to expire and on September 14, 2008, we announced that we had terminated discussions with Take Two. As a result, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we recognized $21 million in related costs consisting of legal, banking and other consulting fees. Goodwill Impairment Adverse economic conditions, including the decline in our market capitalization and our expected financial performance, indicated that a potential impairment of goodwill existed during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Therefore, we performed goodwill impairment tests for our reporting units in accordance with SFAS No. 142. As a result of the goodwill impairment analysis, we determined that our EA Mobile reporting units goodwill was impaired. Substantially all of our goodwill associated with our EA Mobile reporting unit was derived from our acquisition of JAMDAT Mobile Inc. in February 2006. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $368 million related to our EA Mobile reporting unit. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of NetRevenue March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $80 2% $103 3% $(23) (22%) Fiscal 2009 Restructuring In fiscal year 2009, we announced details of a cost reduction plan as a result of our performance combined with the current economic environment. This plan includes a narrowing of our product portfolio, a reduction in our worldwide workforce of approximately 11 percent, or 1,100 employees, the closure of 10 facilities, and reductions in other variable costs and capital expenditures. During fiscal year 2009, we incurred approximately $41 million of restructuring charges, of which $32 million was for employee related expenses and $7 million was for facilities related expenses. Including charges incurred through March 31, 2009, we expect to incur cash and non cash charges between $55 million and $60 million by March 2010. These charges will consist primarily of employee related costs (approximately $35 million), facility exit costs (approximately $25 million), as well as other costs including asset impairment costs (approximately $5 million). Fiscal 2008 Reorganization During fiscal year 2009, we incurred approximately $34 million of charges associated with our fiscal 2008 reorganization, of which $22 million was for facilities related expenses and $12 million related to other expenses, including contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. 43 Table of Contents During the fiscal year 2008, we incurred approximately $97 million of reorganization charges, of which $58 million was for facilities related expenses, $27 million was other expenses including contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and $12 million was employee related expenses. Losses on Strategic Investments, Net Losses on strategic investments, net for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of NetRevenue March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $(62) (1%) $(118) (3%) $56 (47%) During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, losses on strategic investments, net decreased by $56 million, or 47 percent, as compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. We recognized (1) a $40 million impairment charge on our investments in Neowizs common and preferred shares and (2) a $27 million impairment charge on our investment in The9 during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. These charges were offset by a $5 million dividend received from our investment in The9. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, we recognized (1) an $81 million impairment charge on our investment in The9 and (2) a $37 million impairment charge on our investments in Neowiz Corporations common and preferred shares. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of NetRevenue March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $34 1% $98 3% $(64) (65%) For fiscal year 2009, interest and other income, net, decreased by $64 million, or 65 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008, primarily due to a decrease in interest income resulting from lower yields on our cash, cash equivalents and short term investment balances. We expect interest income to decrease during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. Income Taxes Income tax expense (benefit) for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 EffectiveTax Rate March 31,2008 EffectiveTax Rate % Change $233 27.2% $(53) (10.3%) (540%) In fiscal year 2009, we recorded tax expense instead of a tax benefit on the pre tax loss due primarily to the deferred tax valuation allowance. Our effective income tax expense rate was 27.2 percent for fiscal year 2009. Our effective income tax benefit rate was 10.3 percent for fiscal year 2008. In fiscal year 2009, our effective tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0 percent due primarily to the deferred tax valuation allowance, non deductible goodwill impairment, certain non deductible stock based compensation expenses, non deductible losses on strategic investments, losses in jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the U.S. rate of 35.0 percent, and a loss on facility impairment for which the future tax benefit is uncertain and not more likely than not to be realized. In fiscal year 2008, our effective income tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent due primarily to non deductible acquisition related costs, losses on strategic investments, a loss on facility impairment for which the future tax benefit is uncertain and not more likely than not to be realized, and certain non deductible stock based compensation expenses. 44 Table of Contents Our effective income tax rates for fiscal year 2010 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, as well as changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in or termination of our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre tax consolidated income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. On May 6, 2009, we received notification from the tax authorities in the United Kingdom that they had completed their examination of the fiscal 2005 tax return. As a result, in our fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009, we will record a tax benefit of approximately $33 million, which includes the recognition of approximately $21 million in previously unrecognized tax benefits, as well as a reduction in our accrual for related interest and penalties. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. Comparison of Fiscal 2008 to Fiscal 2007 Net Revenue During fiscal years 2008 and 2007, we recognized total net revenue of $3,665 million and $3,091 million, respectively. Our total net revenue during fiscal year 2008 includes $831 million recognized from sales of certain online enabled packaged goods and digital content for which we were not able to objectively determine the fair value (as defined by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for software sales) of the online service that we provided in connection with the sale. During the year ended March 31, 2008, we deferred the recognition of $355 million of net revenue, as compared to the deferral of $10 million of net revenue during the year ended March 31, 2007. From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Increase %Change 2008 2007 North America $ 1,942 53 % $ 1,666 54 % $ 276 17 % Europe 1,541 42 % 1,261 41 % 280 22 % Asia 182 5 % 164 5 % 18 11 % International 1,723 47 % 1,425 46 % 298 21 % Total Net Revenue $ 3,665 100 % $ 3,091 100 % $ 574 19 % 45 Table of Contents The overall change in deferred net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Decrease 2008 2007 PLAYSTATION 3 $ (180 ) $ (3 ) $ (177 ) PlayStation 2 (49 ) (5 ) (44 ) PSP (46 ) (2 ) (44 ) PC (52 ) (52 ) Other (28 ) (28 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (355 ) $ (10 ) $ (345 ) North America For fiscal year 2008, net revenue in North America was $1,942 million, driven by Rock Band, Madden NFL 08, and NCAA Football 08. Net revenue for fiscal year 2008 increased 17 percent, or $276 million, as compared to fiscal year 2007. From an operational perspective, the increase in net revenue was driven by (1) a $287 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, (2) a $162 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3, and (3) a $121 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii. These increases were partially offset by (1) a $132 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2, (2) a $105 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox, (3) a $51 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PSP, and (4) a $35 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo GameCube. The deferral of net revenue, which will be recognized in future periods, decreased our reported net revenue by $158 million during the year ended March 31, 2008 as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue of $5 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The change in deferred net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 for North America was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Decrease 2008 2007 PLAYSTATION 3 $ (73 ) $ (2 ) $ (71 ) PlayStation 2 (28 ) (4 ) (24 ) PSP (20 ) (1 ) (19 ) Wii (17 ) (17 ) PC (17 ) 2 (19 ) Other (3 ) (3 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (158 ) $ (5 ) $ (153 ) Europe For fiscal year 2008, net revenue in Europe was $1,541 million, driven by FIFA 08, Need for Speed ProStreet, and The Simpsons Game. Net revenue for fiscal year 2008 increased 22 percent, or $280 million, as compared to fiscal year 2007. From an operational perspective the increase in net revenue was driven by (1) a $113 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3 and (2) a $109 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii. The deferral of net revenue, which will be recognized in future periods, decreased our reported net revenue by $169 million during the year ended March 31, 2008, as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue due to the deferral of $5 million of net revenue for the year ended March 31, 2007. 46 Table of Contents We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro and the British pound sterling) increased reported net revenue, including the foreign exchange impact from deferred net revenue, by approximately $113 million, or 9 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from net revenue, we estimate that net revenue increased by approximately $167 million, or 13 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. The change in deferred net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 for Europe was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Decrease 2008 2007 PLAYSTATION 3 $ (93 ) $ (1 ) $ (92 ) PC (30 ) (2 ) (28 ) PSP (22 ) (1 ) (21 ) PlayStation 2 (18 ) (1 ) (17 ) Other (6 ) (6 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (169 ) $ (5 ) $ (164 ) Asia For fiscal year 2008, net revenue in Asia was $182 million, driven by Need for Speed ProStreet, The Simpsons Game, and FIFA 08. Net revenue for fiscal year 2008 increased 11 percent, or $18 million, as compared to fiscal year 2007. From an operational perspective, the increase in net revenue was driven by (1) a $15 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3 and (2) a $12 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii. These increases were partially offset by a $9 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2. The deferral of net revenue, which will be recognized in future periods, decreased our reported net revenue by $28 million during the year ended March 31, 2008. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (particularly the Australian dollar) increased reported net revenue, including the foreign exchange impact from deferred net revenue, by approximately $12 million, or 7 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from net revenue, we estimate that net revenue increased by approximately $6 million, or 4 percent, for the year ended March 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. The change in deferred net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 for Asia was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, Decrease 2008 2007 PLAYSTATION 3 $ (14 ) $ $ (14 ) PC (5 ) (5 ) Other (9 ) (9 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (28 ) $ $ (28 ) Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue March 31,2007 % of NetRevenue % Change Change as a% of NetRevenue $1,805 49.3% $1,212 39.2% 48.9% 10.1% 47 Table of Contents For fiscal year 2008, cost of goods sold increased by 10.1 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to fiscal year 2007. This increase was primarily due to (1) higher co publishing and distribution royalty costs of approximately 8 percent as a percentage of total net revenue primarily driven by sales of Rock Band, and, to a lesser extent, other co publishing and distribution titles that have a lower gross margin and (2) the increase in net revenue deferrals of $355 million related to certain online enabled packaged goods and digital content. Overall, we estimate the deferral of net revenue negatively impacted cost of goods sold as a percent of total net revenue by 4 percent. As a percentage of total net revenue, the overall increase in cost of goods sold was partially offset by lower license royalty rates of approximately 1 percent as a percentage of total net revenue primarily due to a higher proportion of sales in fiscal year 2008 from our owned intellectual property franchises that have lower royalty rates as compared to fiscal year 2007. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue March 31,2007 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $588 16% $466 15% $122 26% As a percentage of net revenue, marketing and sales expenses were adversely impacted by our deferral of net revenue related to online enabled packaged goods and digital content during fiscal year 2008. Marketing and sales expenses increased by $122 million, or 26 percent, in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $90 million in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses primarily to support our launch of new franchises and incremental spending on established franchises, as well as (2) a $23 million increase in personnel related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $54 million and $28 million in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue March 31,2007 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $339 9% $288 9% $51 18% As a percentage of net revenue, general and administrative expenses were adversely impacted by our deferral of net revenue related to online enabled packaged goods and digital content during fiscal year 2008. General and administrative expenses increased by $51 million, or 18 percent, in fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007 primarily due to (1) an increase of $23 million in additional personnel related costs to help support our administrative functions worldwide, (2) an increase in contracted services associated with IT systems initiatives, professional services and business development of $21 million to support the growth of the organization, and (3) an increase in facilities related expenses of $12 million in support of our administrative functions worldwide. These increases were partially offset by a $7 million reduction in incentive based compensation expense. 48 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue March 31,2007 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $1,145 31% $1,041 34% $104 10% As a percentage of net revenue, research and development expenses were adversely impacted by our deferral of net revenue related to online enabled packaged goods and digital content during fiscal year 2008. Research and development expenses increased by $104 million, or 10 percent, in fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $93 million in additional personnel related costs primarily due to an increase in headcount and partially as a result of our acquisition of VGH, (2) higher external development costs of $32 million to support new releases such as our Union of European Football Associations EURO soccer franchise and titles from The Sims franchise, and (3) an increase in depreciation of $12 million. These increases were partially offset by a $24 million reduction in incentive based compensation expense and $6 million reduction in facilities related expenses. Acquired In Process Technology Acquired in process technology charges for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue March 31,2007 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $138 4% $3 $135 4500% In connection with our acquisition of VGH, we incurred acquired in process technology charges of $138 million in relation to game software that had not reached technical feasibility at the date of acquisition. The fair values of VGHs products under development were determined using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows from the acquired in process technology to present value. The acquired in process technology charge we incurred in fiscal year 2007 resulted from our acquisitions of Mythic and the remaining minority interest in DICE. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 was as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue March 31,2007 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $34 1% $27 1% $7 26% For fiscal year 2008, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, VGH and others. For fiscal year 2007, amortization of intangibles resulted from our acquisitions of JAMDAT, Mythic and others. Amortization of intangibles increased by $7 million, or 26 percent, in fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007 primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to our acquisition of VGH. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue March 31,2007 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $103 3% $15 $88 587% 49 Table of Contents Fiscal 2008 Reorganization In connection with our fiscal 2008 reorganization, during fiscal year 2008, we incurred approximately $97 million of reorganization charges, of which $58 million was for facilities related expenses, $27 million was for other expenses including other contract termination costs as well as IT and consulting costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and $12 million was for employee related expenses. Fiscal 2006 International Publishing Reorganization In connection with our fiscal 2006 international publishing reorganization, during fiscal year 2008, we incurred approximately $6 million of employee related expenses. During fiscal 2007, restructuring charges related to our fiscal 2006 international publishing reorganization were approximately $15 million, of which $10 million was for employee related expenses. Losses on Strategic Investments, Net Losses on strategic investments, net for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue March 31,2007 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $(118) (3%) $ $(118) N/A For fiscal year 2008, we recognized $118 million of losses on strategic investments, net due to (1) an $81 million impairment charge on our investment in The9 and (2) a $37 million impairment charge on our investments in Neowiz Corporations common and preferred shares. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 % of NetRevenue March 31,2007 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $98 3% $99 3% $(1) (1%) For fiscal year 2008, interest and other income, net, decreased by $1 million, or 1 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2007 primarily resulting from (1) an increase of $8 million in losses recognized due to foreign exchange and (2) a net decrease of $2 million in interest. These items were significantly offset by a $9 million gain recognized on sales of investments. Income Taxes Income tax expense (benefit) for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2008 EffectiveTax Rate March 31,2007 EffectiveTax Rate % Change $(53) (10.3%) $66 48.2% (180%) Our effective income tax benefit rate was 10.3 percent for fiscal year 2008. Our effective income tax expense rate was 48.2 percent for fiscal year 2007. For fiscal year 2008, our effective income tax benefit rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent due to a number of factors, including non deductible acquisition related costs, losses on strategic investments and certain loss on facility impairment for which future tax benefit is uncertain and not more likely than not to be realized, as well as certain non deductible stock based compensation expenses. For fiscal year 2007, our effective income tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent due to a number of factors, including certain non deductible stock based compensation expenses and additional charges resulting from certain non deductible acquisition related costs. 50 Table of Contents Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 141(R), which requires the recognition of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in an acquiree at the acquisition date fair value with limited exceptions. SFAS No. 141(R) will change the accounting treatment for certain specific items and includes a substantial number of new disclosure requirements. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 141(R) 1, Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies. FSP FAS 141(R) 1 amends and clarifies SFAS No. 141(R) to amend the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting, and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) and FSP FAS 141(R) 1 apply prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact FSP FAS 141(R) 1 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements for material acquisitions consummated on or after March 29, 2009. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51, which establishes new accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interests (e.g., minority interests) and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 also includes expanded disclosure requirements regarding the interests of the parent and its noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 160 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2007, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Forces (EITF) consensus conclusion on EITF 07 01, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements. EITF 07 01 defines collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting requirements for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between participants in the arrangement and third parties. Under this conclusion, a participant to a collaborative arrangement should disclose information about the nature and purpose of its collaborative arrangements, the rights and obligations under the collaborative arrangements, the accounting policy for collaborative arrangements, and the income statement classification and amounts attributable to transactions arising from the collaborative arrangement between participants for each period an income statement is presented. EITF 07 01 is effective for interim or annual reporting periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and requires retrospective application to all prior periods presented for all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date. While we have not yet completed our analysis, we do not anticipate the implementation of EITF 07 01 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) FAS 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157. FSP FAS 157 2 delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, for certain nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). SFAS No. 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. FSP FAS 157 2 defers the effective date of certain provisions of SFAS No. 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years, for items within the scope of this FSP. We do not expect the adoption of FSP FAS 157 2 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets. FSP FAS 142 3 amends the factors an entity should consider in developing renewal or extension assumptions used in determining the useful life of recognized intangible assets under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. This guidance for determining the useful life of a recognized intangible asset applies prospectively to intangible assets acquired individually or with a group of other assets in either an asset acquisition or business combination. FSP FAS 142 3 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2008, and early adoption is prohibited. We are currently evaluating the impact FSP FAS 142 3 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 51 Table of Contents In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 107 1 and APB 28 1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments. FSP FAS 107 1 and APB 28 1 amends FASB Statement No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, and requires disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting periods of publicly traded companies as well as in annual financial statements. This FSP also amends APB No. 28, Interim Financial Reporting, to require those disclosures in summarized financial information at interim reporting periods. FSP FAS 107 1 and APB 28 1 is effective for interim reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. We are currently evaluating the impact FSP FAS 107 1 and ABP 28 1 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115 2 and FAS 124 2, Recognition and Presentation of Other than Temporary Impairments. FSP FAS 115 2 and FAS 124 2 amends the other than temporary impairment guidance in U.S. GAAP for debt securities, changes existing guidance for determining whether an impairment is other than temporary to debt securities, replaces the existing requirement that the entitys management assert it has both the intent and ability to hold an impaired security until recovery, requires that an entity recognize noncredit losses on held to maturity debt securities in other comprehensive income and amortize that amount over the remaining life of the security in a prospective manner, requires an entity to present the total other than temporary impairment in the statement of earnings with an offset for the amount recognized in other comprehensive income, and when adopting FSP FAS 115 2 and FAS 124 2, an entity is required to record a cumulative effect adjustment as of the beginning of the period of adoption. This FSP does not amend existing recognition and measurement guidance related to other than temporary impairments of equity securities. FSP FAS 115 2 and 124 2 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. We are currently evaluating the impact FSP FAS 115 2 and 124 2 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In April 2009, the SEC issued SAB No. 111, which amends and replaces Topic 5.M. in the SAB Series entitled Other Than Temporary Impairment of Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. SAB No. 111 maintains the staffs previous views related to equity securities and amends Topic 5.M. to exclude debt securities from its scope. We do not expect the adoption of SAB 111 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157 4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly. FSP FAS 157 4 provides additional guidance for estimating fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased, and includes guidance on identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. FSP FAS 157 4 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, and should be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact FSP FAS 157 4 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 52 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As ofMarch 31, Increase /(Decrease) (In millions) 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,621 $ 1,553 $ 68 Short term investments 534 734 (200 ) Marketable equity securities 365 729 (364 ) Total $ 2,520 $ 3,016 $ (496 ) Percentage of total assets 54 % 50 % Year EndedMarch 31, Increase /(Decrease) (In millions) 2009 2008 Cash provided by operating activities $ 12 $ 338 $ (326 ) Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 23 (429 ) 452 Cash provided by financing activities 91 243 (152 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (58 ) 30 (88 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 68 $ 182 $ (114 ) Changes in Cash Flow During fiscal year 2009, we generated $12 million of cash from operating activities as compared to generating $338 million for fiscal year 2008. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to an increase in external development costs, advertising and marketing costs and personnel related expenses. For fiscal year 2009, we generated $891 million of cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short term investments and $89 million in proceeds from sales of common stock through our stock based compensation plans. Our primary use of cash in non operating activities consisted of $695 million used to purchase short term investments, $115 million in capital expenditures and $58 million used for acquisitions. Short term investments and marketable equity securities Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short term interest rates. As of March 31, 2009, our short term investments had gross unrealized gains of $4 million, or 1 percent of the total in short term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. Marketable equity securities decreased to $365 million as of March 31, 2009, from $729 million as of March 31, 2008. This decrease was due to (1) a $307 million reduction in our unrealized gains and (2) impairment charges of $30 million and $27 million recognized on our Neowiz and The9 common stock investments, respectively. Receivables, net Our gross accounts receivable balances were $333 million and $544 million as of March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in our accounts receivable balance was primarily due to lower sales volumes during 53 Table of Contents the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. Reserves for sales returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts decreased in absolute dollars from $238 million as of March 31, 2008 to $217 million as of March 31, 2009. As a percentage of trailing nine month net revenue, reserves decreased from 7 percent as of March 31, 2008, to 6 percent as of March 31, 2009. We believe these reserves are adequate based on historical experience and our current estimate of potential returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts. Inventories Inventories increased to $217 million as of March 31, 2009 from $168 million as of March 31, 2008, primarily as a result of an increase of $47 million of Rock Band and Rock Band 2 inventory. Other current assets and other assets Other current assets decreased to $216 million as of March 31, 2009, from $290 million as of March 31, 2008. Other assets decreased to $115 million as of March 31, 2009 from $157 million as of March 31, 2008. Other current assets and other assets combined, decreased by $116 million primarily due to (1) the impairment and subsequent reclassification of an asset classified as an asset held for sale in other current assets to property and equipment, net, in the amount of $48 million and (2) a decrease in prepaid and value added taxes of $33 million. Accounts payable Accounts payable decreased to $152 million as of March 31, 2009, from $182 million as of March 31, 2008, primarily due to the timing of payments related to our inventory purchases. Accrued and other current liabilities Our accrued and other current liabilities decreased to $723 million as of March 31, 2009 from $730 million as of March 31, 2008. The $7 million decrease was primarily due to (1) a $44 million decrease in accrued incentive based compensation and (2) a $23 million decrease in accrued contingent liabilities related to certain of our acquisitions. These decreases were partially offset by (1) an increase of $33 million in our deferred net revenue (other) and (2) a $30 million increase in royalties payable directly associated with the increase in our co publishing and distribution revenue and inventory. Deferred income taxes, net Our net deferred income tax asset position decreased by $229 million as of March 31, 2009 as compared to March 31, 2008 primarily due to the increase in the valuation allowance. Financial Condition We believe that cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable equity securities, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures and, potentially, future acquisitions or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. On March 13, 2008, we commenced an unsolicited $26.00 per share cash tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of Take Two, for a total purchase price of approximately $2.1 billion. On May 9, 2008, we received a commitment from certain financial institutions to provide us with up to $1.0 billion of senior unsecured term loan at any time until January 9, 2009, to be used to provide a portion of the funds for the offer and or merger. On 54 Table of Contents August 18, 2008, we allowed the tender offer to expire and on September 14, 2008, we announced that we had terminated discussions with Take Two. On September 26, 2008, pursuant to the terms of the funding, we received a notice from the financial institutions that had committed to provide us with the funding that, in light of our decision not to make a proposal to acquire Take Two, their commitment to provide the funding had terminated. The loan financing arrangements supporting our Redwood City headquarters leases, described in the Off Balance Sheet Commitments section below, are scheduled to expire in July 2009. Upon the expiration of the lease financing arrangements, the terms of the leases provide for our purchase of the facilities for a purchase price of approximately $250 million. However, at any time prior to the expiration of the financing, we may re negotiate the leases and the related financing arrangements or negotiate an alternative financing arrangement. As of March 31, 2009, approximately $925 million of our cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and marketable equity securities that was generated from operations was domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts and, if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products on new platforms and new versions of our products on existing platforms, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non employee software developers (independent artists or third party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, and FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited) (professional soccer); NASCAR (stock car racing); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR and Tiger Woods (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry Potter); New Line Productions and Saul Zaentz Company (The Lord of the Rings); Red Bear Inc. (John Madden); National Football 55 Table of Contents League Properties and PLAYERS Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football and basketball); Viacom Consumer Products (The Godfather); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS games); Twentieth Century Fox Licensing and Merchandising (The Simpsons), Hasbro, Inc. (a wide array of Hasbro intellectual properties), and the Estate of Robert Ludlum (Robert Ludlum novels and films). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non royalty bearing licenses and services agreements, and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. During the fiscal year 2009, we declined to exercise our option to invest in the Arena Football League. The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of March 31, 2009, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Contractual Obligations CommercialCommitments Total Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Leases(a) Developer/LicensorCommitments(b) Marketing Letter of Credit,Bank and OtherGuarantees 2010 $ 50 $ 270 $ 92 $ 3 $ 415 2011 39 263 54 356 2012 29 182 42 253 2013 21 152 42 215 2014 27 13 24 64 Thereafter 20 622 131 773 Total $ 186 $ 1,502 $ 385 $ 3 $ 2,076 (a) See discussion on operating leases in the Off Balance Sheet Commitments section below for additional information. Lease commitments include contractual rental commitments of $7 million under real estate leases for unutilized office space resulting from our restructuring activities. These amounts, net of estimated future sub lease income, were expensed in the periods of the related restructuring and are included in our accrued and other current liabilities reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2009. (b) Developer/licensor commitments include $37 million of commitments to developers or licensors that have been recorded in current and long term liabilities and a corresponding amount in current and long term assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2009 because payment is not contingent upon performance by the developer or licensor. The amounts represented in the table above reflect our minimal cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be expensed in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to what is included in the table above, as discussed in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48. As of March 31, 2009, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $324 million, of which approximately $56 million is offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution. For the remaining liability, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. 56 Table of Contents Related Person Transaction Prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of Electronic Arts, John Riccitiello was a Founder and Managing Director of Elevation Partners, L.P., and also served as Chief Executive Officer of VGH, which we acquired in January 2008. At the time of the acquisition, Mr. Riccitiello held an indirect financial interest in VGH resulting from his interest in the entity that controlled Elevation Partners, L.P. and his interest in a limited partner of Elevation Partners, L.P. Elevation Partners, L.P. was a significant stockholder of VGH. As a result of the acquisition, Mr. Riccitiellos financial returns related to these interests, including returns of deemed capital contributions, were $2.4 million through May 2008 (some of which Mr. Riccitiello could be required to return depending on the performance of the Elevation entities). Mr. Riccitiello has not received any additional payments related to the VGH acquisition to date. However, he could receive up to an additional $1.6 million plus any interest or other amounts earned thereon. This amount could be reduced, however, by a variety of factors, including investment losses of Elevation, if any, as well as certain expenses of Elevation that could offset partnership profits. Upon his separation from Elevation Partners, L.P., Mr. Riccitiello ceased to have any further control or influence over these factors. From the commencement of negotiations with VGH, at the direction of EAs Board of Directors, EAs Audit Committee engaged directly with EA management (independently from Mr. Riccitiello) to analyze and consider the potential benefits, risks and material terms of the acquisition. EAs Board of Directors approved the acquisition after reviewing with EAs management and members of the Audit Committee the terms of the acquisition and the potential benefits and risks thereof, as well as Mr. Riccitiellos personal financial interest in VGH and the acquisition. Mr. Riccitiello recused himself from the Board of Directors meeting during the Boards deliberation of the acquisition and he did not vote on the acquisition. OFF BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Lease Commitments and Residual Value Guarantees We lease certain of our current facilities, furniture and equipment under non cancelable operating lease agreements. We are required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and will be required to pay any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. In February 1995, we entered into a build to suit lease (Phase One Lease) for our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California (Phase One Facilities). The Phase One Facilities comprise a total of approximately 350,000 square feet and provide space for sales, marketing, administration and research and development functions. The Phase One Lease expires in January 2039, subject to early termination in the event the underlying financing between the lessor and its lenders is not extended or if we chose to exercise our option to purchase the facility. The lessor has extended its loan financing underlying the Phase One Lease with its lenders on several occasions. The financing currently extends through July 2009. On February 2, 2009, the Phase One Lease was amended to modify the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, the Quick Ratio and the Consolidated EBIDTA definitions used in the covenants. Had we not entered into this amendment, which covered the quarter ended December 31, 2008, as well as future quarters, we would have been unable to meet the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for such quarter. We were in compliance with each of the other financial covenants. Upon the expiration of the lease financing arrangement, the terms of the Phase One Lease provide for our purchase of the Phase One Facilities for a purchase price of $132 million. However, at any time prior to the expiration of the financing in July 2009, we may re negotiate the lease and the related financing arrangement or negotiate an alternative financing arrangement. We account for the Phase One Lease arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, as amended. In the event that we were to purchase the Phase One Facilities, we would be required to classify the property on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We would also be required to recognize the depreciation expense for the property, excluding the land. 57 Table of Contents In December 2000, we entered into a second build to suit lease (Phase Two Lease) for a five and one half year term beginning in December 2000 to expand our Redwood City, California, headquarters facilities and develop adjacent property (Phase Two Facilities). Construction of the Phase Two Facilities was completed in June 2002. The Phase Two Facilities comprise a total of approximately 310,000 square feet and provide space for sales, marketing, administration and research and development functions. The Phase Two Lease is subject to early termination in the event the underlying financing between the lessor and its lenders is not extended or if we chose to exercise our option to purchase the facility. The lessor has extended the lease term and its loan financing underlying the Phase Two Lease with its lenders on several occasions. The lease term and loan financing currently extends through July 2009. On February 2, 2009, the Phase Two Lease was amended to modify the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, the Quick Ratio and the Consolidated EBIDTA definitions used in the covenants. Had we not entered into this amendment, which covered the quarter ended December 31, 2008, as well as future quarters, we would have been unable to meet the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for such quarter. We were in compliance with each of the other financial covenants. Upon the expiration of the lease financing arrangement, the terms of the Phase Two Lease provide for our purchase of the Phase Two Facilities for a purchase price of $115 million. However, at any time prior to the expiration of the financing in July 2009, we may re negotiate the lease and the related financing arrangement or negotiate an alternative financing arrangement. We account for the Phase Two Lease arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, as amended. In the event that we were to purchase the Phase Two Facilities, we would be required to classify the property on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We would also be required to recognize the depreciation expense for the property, excluding the land. The two lease agreements with KeyBank National Association described above require us to maintain certain financial covenants. The following table sets forth the amended financial covenants as of February 2, 2009, all of which we were in compliance with as of March 31, 2009. Financial Covenants Requirements for the Year EndedMarch 31, 2009 Actual as ofMarch 31, 2009 Consolidated Net Worth (in millions) equal to or greater than $ 2,430 $ 3,134 Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio equal to or greater than 0.60:1.00 0.82:1.00 Total Consolidated Debt to Capital equal to or less than 60 % 7.3 % Quick Ratio equal to or greater than 3.00:1.00 9.2:1.00 In February 2006, we entered into an agreement with an independent third party to lease a facility in Guildford, Surrey, United Kingdom, which commenced in June 2006 and will expire in May 2016. The facility comprises a total of approximately 95,000 square feet, which we use for administrative, sales and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is approximately $33 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. In June 2004, we entered into a lease agreement, amended in December 2005, with an independent third party for a studio facility in Orlando, Florida. The lease commenced in January 2005 and expires in June 2010 with one five year option to extend the lease term. The campus facilities comprise a total of 140,000 square feet and provide space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation over the initial five and a half year term of the lease is $15 million. In July 2003, we entered into a lease agreement with an independent third party (the Landlord) for a studio facility in Los Angeles, California, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013 with two five year options to extend the lease term. Additionally, we have options to purchase the property after five and ten years based on the fair market value of the property at the date of sale, a right of first offer to purchase the property upon terms offered by the Landlord, and a right to share in the profits from a sale of the property. Existing campus facilities comprise a total of 243,000 square feet and provide space for research and 58 Table of Contents development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is $50 million over the initial ten year term of the lease. This commitment is offset by expected sublease income of $6 million for a sublease to an affiliate of the Landlord of 18,000 square feet of the Los Angeles facility, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013. Director Indemnity Agreements We entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. INFLATION We believe the impact of inflation on our results of operations has not been significant in any of the past three fiscal years. Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk MARKET RISK We are exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and market prices, which have experienced significant volatility in light of the global economic downturn. Market risk is the potential loss arising from changes in market rates and market prices. We employ established policies and practices to manage these risks. Foreign currency option and forward contracts are used to hedge anticipated exposures or mitigate some existing exposures subject to foreign exchange risk as discussed below. While we do not hedge our short term investment portfolio, we protect our short term investment portfolio against different market risks, including interest rate risk as discussed below. Our cash and cash equivalents portfolio consist of highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and original or remaining maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. We also do not currently hedge our market price risk relating to our marketable equity securities and we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Cash Flow Hedging Activities. From time to time, we hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk related to forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and expense transactions by purchasing option contracts that generally have maturities of 15 months or less. These transactions are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The derivative assets associated with our hedging activities are recorded at fair value in other current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity and subsequently reclassified into net revenue or research and development expenses, as appropriate in the period when the forecasted transaction is recorded. The ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reported in each period in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate the impact of currency exchange rate movements in revenue and research and development expenses. As of March 31, 2009, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $19 million in foreign currency and to sell approximately $65 million of foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2009, these foreign currency option contracts outstanding had a total fair value of $2 million, included in other current assets. As of March 31, 2008, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $48 million in foreign currencies and to sell approximately $254 million of foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2008, these foreign currency option contracts outstanding had a total fair value of $5 million, included in other current assets. Balance Sheet Hedging Activities. We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, primarily intercompany receivables and 59 Table of Contents payables. The forward contracts generally have a contractual term of three months or less and are transacted near month end. Our foreign currency forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133 and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts are reported as other current assets or other current liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and gains and losses from changes in fair value are reported in interest and other income, net. The gains and losses on these forward contracts generally offset the gains and losses on the underlying foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, which are also reported in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In certain cases, the amount of such gains and losses will significantly differ from the amount of gains and losses recognized on the underlying foreign currency denominated asset or liability, in which case our results will be impacted. As of March 31, 2009, we had foreign currency forward contracts to purchase and sell approximately $63 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $53 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $7 million to purchase foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars and $3 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for British pounds sterling. As of March 31, 2008, we had forward foreign currency contracts to purchase and sell approximately $540 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $479 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $48 million to purchase foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars and $13 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for British pounds sterling. The fair value of our forward contracts was immaterial as of March 31, 2009 and 2008. The counterparties to these forward and option contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks. While we believe the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material, the disruption in the global financial markets has impacted some of the financial institutions with which we do business. A sustained decline in the financial stability of financial institutions as a result of the disruption in the financial markets could affect our ability to secure credit worthy counterparties for our foreign currency hedging programs. Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. As of March 31, 2009, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would have resulted in potential losses in fair value of our option contracts used in cash flow hedging of $1 million in both scenarios. A hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would have resulted in potential losses on our forward contracts used in balance sheet hedging of $6 million and $9 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2009. This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar; however, all foreign currency exchange rates do not always move in such manner and actual results may differ materially. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our short term investment portfolio. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities. However, because short term investments mature relatively quickly and are required to be reinvested at the then current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of short term investments is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term investments. Additionally, the contractual terms of the investments do not permit the issuer to call, prepay or otherwise settle the investments at prices less than the stated par value. Our investments are held for purposes other than trading. Also, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our short term investment portfolio. 60 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2009 and 2008, our short term investments were classified as available for sale and, consequently, recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in stockholders equity. Our portfolio of short term investments consisted of the following investment categories, summarized by fair value as of March 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions): As of March 31, 2009 2008 U.S. Treasury securities $ 200 $ 161 Corporate bonds 131 231 U.S. agency securities 109 266 Commercial paper 79 12 Asset backed securities 15 64 Total short term investments $ 534 $ 734 Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. At any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2009, arising from potential changes in interest rates. The modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest RateDecrease of X Basis Points Fair Valueas ofMarch 31,2009 Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest RateIncrease of X Basis Points (In millions) (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS U.S. Treasury securities $ 205 $ 203 $ 201 $ 200 $ 198 $ 196 $ 194 Corporate bonds 134 133 132 131 130 129 128 U.S. agency securities 111 110 110 109 109 108 108 Commercial paper 80 80 80 79 79 79 79 Asset backed securities 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 Total short term investments $ 545 $ 541 $ 538 $ 534 $ 531 $ 527 $ 524 The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2008, arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest RateDecrease of X Basis Points Fair Valueas ofMarch 31,2008 Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest RateIncrease of X Basis Points (In millions) (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS U.S. agency securities $ 273 $ 270 $ 268 $ 266 $ 263 $ 261 $ 258 Corporate bonds 235 234 233 231 230 229 227 U.S. Treasury securities 166 164 163 161 160 158 156 Asset backed securities 64 64 64 64 64 63 63 Commercial paper 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 Total short term investments $ 750 $ 744 $ 740 $ 734 $ 729 $ 723 $ 716 61 Table of Contents Market Price Risk The value of our marketable equity securities in publicly traded companies is subject to market price volatility and foreign currency risk for investments denominated in foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2009 and 2008, our marketable equity securities were classified as available for sale and, consequently, were recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in stockholders equity. The fair value of our marketable equity securities was $365 million and $729 million as of March 31, 2009 and March 31, 2008, respectively. In fiscal years 2009 and 2008, we recognized other than temporary impairment losses on our marketable equity securities of $57 million and $109 million, respectively. Our marketable equity securities have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by volatility in the public stock markets. At any time, a sharp change in market prices in our investments in marketable equity securities could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. The following table presents hypothetical changes in the fair value of our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2009, arising from changes in market prices plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent and 75 percent. Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageDecrease in EachStocks Market Price Fair Valueas ofMarch 31,2009 Valuation of Securities Given anX Percentage Increase in EachStocks Market Price (In millions) (75%) (50%) (25%) 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 91 $ 182 $ 274 $ 365 $ 456 $ 547 $ 638 The following table presents hypothetical changes in the fair value of our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2008, arising from changes in market prices plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent and 75 percent. Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageDecrease in EachStocks Market Price Fair Valueas ofMarch 31,2008 Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageIncrease in EachStocks Market Price (In millions) (75%) (50%) (25%) 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 182 $ 365 $ 547 $ 729 $ 911 $ 1,094 $ 1,276 62 Table of Contents 
 
