Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW The following overview is a high level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10 K, including in the Business section and the Risk Factors above, the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360, and Nintendo Wii), personal computers, mobile devices (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle), and the Internet. Our ability to publish games across multiple platforms, through multiple distribution channels, and directly to consumers (online and wirelessly) has been, and will continue to be, a cornerstone of our product strategy. We have generated substantial growth in new business models and alternative revenue streams (such as subscription, micro transactions, and advertising) based on the continued expansion of our online and wireless platform. Some of our games are based on our own wholly owned intellectual property (e.g., Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, The Sims, Bejeweled, and Plants v. Zombies), and some of our games are based on content that we license from others (e.g., FIFA, Madden NFL, and Star Wars: The Old Republic). Our goal is to turn our core intellectual properties into year round businesses available on a range of platforms. Our products and services may be purchased through physical and online retailers, platform providers such as console manufacturers and mobile carriers via digital downloads, as well as directly through our own distribution platform, including online portals such as Origin and Play4Free. Financial Results Total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was $4,143 million, up $554 million as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. At March 31, 2012, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $43 million as compared to March 31, 2011, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. At March 31, 2011, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $239 million as compared to March 31, 2010, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Without these changes in deferred net revenue, reported net revenue would have increased by approximately $358 million during fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011. Net revenue for fiscal year 2012 was driven by FIFA 12, Battlefield 3 and Madden NFL 12. Net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was $76 million as compared to a net loss of $276 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was $0.23 as compared to a diluted loss per share of $0.84 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Net income increased for fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011 primarily as a result of (1) a $455 million increase in gross profit due to a decrease in the change in deferred net revenue related to certain online enabled packaged goods and digital content and a greater percentage of net revenue from EA studio and digital products, which have higher margins than our co publishing and distribution products and (2) a $145 million decrease in restructuring and other charges. The increase in net income was partially offset by (1) a $106 million increase in marketing and sales costs, (2) a $59 million increase in research and development costs, and (3) a $74 million increase in general and administrative costs. 29 Table of Contents Trends in Our Business Digital Content Distribution and Services. Consumers are spending an ever increasing portion of their money and time on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook. We provide a variety of online delivered products and services including through our Origin platform. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also available through direct online download through the Internet. We also offer online delivered content and services that are add ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as Internet only games and game services, and games for mobile devices. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving devices that are being used to play games by an ever broadening base of consumers. We have responded to these advances in technology and consumer acceptance of digital distribution by offering different sales models, such as subscription services, online downloads for a one time fee, micro transactions and advertising supported free to play games and game sites. In addition, we offer our consumers the ability to play a game across platforms on multiple devices. We significantly increased the revenues that we derive from wireless, Internet derived and advertising (digital) products and services from $743 million in fiscal year 2011 to $1,159 million in fiscal year 2012 and we expect this portion of our business to continue to grow in fiscal 2013 and beyond. Wireless and Other Emerging Platforms. Advances in technology have resulted in a variety of platforms for interactive entertainment. Examples include wireless technologies, streaming gaming services, and Internet platforms. Our efforts in wireless interactive entertainment are focused in downloadable games for mobile devices. These platforms grow the consumer base for our business while also providing competition to existing established video game platforms. We expect sales of games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business. Growth of Casual and Social Games. The popularity of wireless and other emerging gaming platforms such as smart phones, tablets and social networking sites, such as Facebook, has led to the growth of casual and social gaming. Casual and social games are characterized by their mass appeal, simple controls, flexible monetization including free to play and micro transaction business models, and fun and approachable gameplay. These games appeal to a larger consumer demographic of younger and older players and more female players than video games played on console devices. These areas are among the fastest growing segments of our sector and we have responded to this opportunity by developing casual and social games based on our established intellectual properties such as The Sims, FIFA and Battlefield, and with our acquisition of PopCap Games. We expect sales of casual and social and casual games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games. We see a larger portion of packaged goods games sales concentrated on the most popular titles, and those titles are typically sequels of prior games. We have responded to this trend by significantly reducing the number of games that we produce to provide greater focus on our most promising intellectual properties. We published 36 primary packaged goods titles in fiscal year 2011, 22 in fiscal year 2012 and in fiscal year 2013, we expect to release 14 primary packaged goods titles and plan to build additional online features, content and services around each of these titles. Evolving Sales Patterns. Our business has evolved from a traditional packaged goods business model to one where our games are played on a variety of platforms including mobile devices and social networking sites. Our strategy is to transform our core intellectual properties into year round businesses, with a steady flow of downloadable content and extensions on new platforms. Our increasingly digital, multi platform business no longer reflects the retail sales patterns associated with traditional packaged goods launches. For example, we offer our consumers additional services and or additional content available through online services to further enhance the gaming experience and extend the time that consumers play our games after their initial purchase. Our social and casual games offer free to play and micro transaction models. We also offer subscription based products, such as our MMO role playing game Star Wars: The Old Republic. The revenues we derive from these services has become increasingly more significant year over year. Our service revenue represented 13 percent, 8 percent, and 6 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 30 Table of Contents Recent Developments Stock Repurchase Program. In February 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the next 18 months. We completed our program in April 2012. We repurchased approximately 32 million shares in the open market since the commencement of the program, including pursuant to pre arranged stock trading plans. During the fiscal year 2012, we repurchased and retired approximately 25 million shares of our common stock for approximately $471 million, net of commissions. International Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Impact. International sales (revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States), are a fundamental part of our business. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 52 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2012 and approximately 49 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2011. Our net revenue is impacted by foreign exchange rates during the reporting period associated with net revenue before revenue deferral, as well as the foreign exchange rates associated with the recognition of deferred net revenue of online enabled packaged goods and digital content that were established at the time we recorded this deferred net revenue on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The foreign exchange rates during the reporting period may not always move in the same direction as the foreign exchange rate impact associated with the recognition of deferred net revenue of online enabled packaged goods and digital content. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, foreign exchange rates had an overall favorable impact on our net revenue of approximately $143 million, or 3 percent. In addition, our international investments and our cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, then foreign exchange rates may have an unfavorable impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games (1) on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii) and PCs, (2) on mobile devices (such the Apple iPhone and Google compatible Android phones), (3) on tablets and electronic readers such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle, and (4) from software and content and online game services associated with these products. We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985 605, Software: Revenue Recognition, and Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition, as revised by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition. We classify our revenue as either Product revenue or Service and other revenue. We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement. Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products must be present. Delivery. Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. For services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided. Fixed or determinable fee. If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. 31 Table of Contents Collection is deemed probable. We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection). Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and management judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report in each period. Changes to any of these assumptions and judgments, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Multiple element arrangements We enter into multiple element revenue arrangements in which we may provide a combination of game software, updates or additional content and online game services. For some software products we may provide updates or additional content (digital content) to be delivered via the Internet that can be used with the original software product. In many cases we separately sell this digital content for an additional fee. In other transactions, we may have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee (i.e., updates on a when and if available basis) or we may offer an online matchmaking service that permits consumers to play against each other via the Internet. Collectively, we refer to these as software related offerings. In those situations where we do not require an additional fee for the software related offerings, we account for the sale of the software product and software related offerings as a bundled sale, or multiple element arrangement, in which we sell both the software product and relating offerings for one combined price. Generally, we do not have VSOE for the software related offerings and thus, we defer net revenue from sales of these games and recognize the revenue from the bundled sales games over the period the offering will be provided (the offering period). If the period is not defined, we recognize revenue over the estimated offering period, which is generally estimated to be six months, beginning in the month after delivery. In addition, determining whether we have an implicit obligation to provide incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional fee can be difficult. Determining the estimated offering period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. Determining whether an element of a transaction constitutes an online game service or a digital content download of a product requires judgment and can be difficult. The accounting for these transactions is significantly different. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download is made available (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). Revenue from an online game service is recognized as the service is rendered. If the period is not defined, we recognize the revenue over the estimated service period. For example, our MMO games have an estimated service period of eighteen months, beginning in the month after delivery. For our software and software related multiple element arrangements (i.e., software game bundled with software related offerings), we must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element is delivered, (2) determine whether the undelivered elements are essential to the functionality of the delivered elements, (3) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements. Changes to any of these assumptions and judgments, or changes to the elements in the arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. In some of our multiple element arrangements, we sell tangible products with software and or software related offerings. These tangible products are generally either peripherals or ancillary collectors items. Prior to April 3, 2011, because either the software or other elements sold with the tangible products were essential to the functionality of the tangible product and or we did not have VSOE for the tangible product, we did not separately account for the tangible product. On April 3, 2011, we adopted FASB ASU 2009 13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements and ASU 2009 14, Software (Topic 985): Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements. The new accounting principles establish a selling price 32 Table of Contents hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable and require the application of the relative selling price method to allocate the arrangement consideration to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement that includes tangible products. Accordingly for our multiple element arrangements that include tangible products entered into after April 2, 2011, revenue is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each deliverable using the relative selling prices of each deliverable in the arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy described below. If the arrangement contains more than one software deliverable, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the software deliverables as a group and then allocated to each software deliverable in accordance with ASC 985 605. We determine the selling price for a tangible product deliverable based on the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE (i.e., the price we charge when the tangible product is sold separately) if available, third party evidence (TPE) of fair value (i.e., the price charged by others for similar tangible products) if VSOE is not available, or our best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Determining the BESP is a subjective process that is based on multiple factors including, but not limited to, recent selling prices and related discounts, market conditions, customer classes, sales channels and other factors. As the result of adopting ASU 2009 13 and ASU 2009 14, for the year ended March 31, 2012, we recognized $23 million more revenue than would have been recognized under previous accounting standards. We reduce revenue for estimated future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. Price protection represents the right to receive a credit allowance in the event we lower our wholesale price on a particular product. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old price and the new price. In certain countries, we have stock balancing programs for our PC and video game system software products, which allow for the exchange of these software products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange software products or give credits rather than to give cash refunds. In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for our software products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell through of distributor and retailer inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our reported total net revenue. In addition, if our estimates of returns and price protection related to online enabled packaged goods software products change, the amount of deferred net revenue we recognize in the future would change. Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. 33 Table of Contents Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present value amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the expected receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to these assessments: Business Combinations. We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in process technology, and contingent consideration issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount we recognize as goodwill, an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that asset. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration issued requires an assessment of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures a market participants view of the risk associated with the obligation. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill, Intangibles, and Other Long Lived Assets. Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of our finite lived acquisition related intangible assets and other long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated future cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent upon predicting which of our products will be successful. This success is dependent upon several factors, which are beyond our control, such as which operating platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. On January 1, 2012, we adopted ASU 2011 08, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. ASU 2011 08 allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining 34 Table of Contents whether it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. If an entity concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, it need not perform the two step impairment test. If based on that assessment, we believe it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units is less than its carrying value, a two step goodwill impairment test is required to be performed. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. Our reporting units are determined by the components of our operating segments that constitute a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. To determine the fair value of each reporting unit used in the first step, we use the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data, the income approach, which utilizes discounted cash flows, or a combination thereof. Determining whether an event or change in circumstances does or does not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount is inherently subjective. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long term growth rates, tax rates, and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates based on a weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. These estimates and assumptions have to be made for each reporting unit evaluated for impairment. As of our last annual assessment of goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we concluded that the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units significantly exceeded their carrying amounts and we have not identified any indicators of impairment since. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of developing, marketing and distributing video game software using both established and emerging intellectual properties and our forecasts for emerging intellectual properties are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information and have an inherently higher risk of inaccuracy. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. Assessment of Impairment of Short Term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities. We periodically review our short term investments and marketable equity securities for impairment. Our short term investments consist of securities with remaining maturities greater than three months at the time of purchase and our marketable equity securities consist of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies, both are accounted for as available for sale securities. Unrealized gains and losses on our short term investments and marketable equity securities are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity, net of tax, until either (1) the security is sold, (2) the security has matured, or (3) we determine that the fair value of the security has declined below its adjusted cost basis and the decline is other than temporary. Realized gains and losses on our short term investments and marketable equity securities are calculated based on the specific identification method and are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income, net, and gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, respectively. Determining whether the decline in fair value is other than temporary requires management judgment based on the specific facts and circumstances of each security. The ultimate value realized on these securities is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. We consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the credit quality of the issuer, the duration that the fair value has been less than the adjusted cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery period, the financial condition and near term prospects of the investees, and our intent to sell and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value, any contractual terms impacting the prepayment or settlement process, as well as, if we would be required to sell an investment due to liquidity or contractual reasons before its anticipated recovery. Our ongoing consideration of these factors could result in impairment charges in the future, which could have a material impact on our financial results. 35 Table of Contents Assessment of Inventory Obsolescence. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. At the point of a loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. Adoption of ASU 2011 04. On January 1, 2012, we adopted the FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011 04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The guidance limits the highest and best use measure to nonfinancial assets, permits certain financial assets and liabilities with offsetting positions in market or counterparty credit risks to be measured at a net basis, and provides guidance on the applicability of premiums and discounts. Additionally, the guidance expands the disclosures on Level 3 inputs by requiring quantitative disclosure of the unobservable inputs and assumptions, as well as description of the valuation processes and the sensitivity of the fair value to changes in unobservable inputs. Adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. Royalty based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty based obligations are generally expensed to cost of revenue generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue for contracts with guaranteed minimums. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product, and therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of revenue. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Royalty liabilities are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next 12 months. 36 Table of Contents Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post launch are charged to cost of revenue. We evaluate long lived royalty based assets for impairment generally using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum royalty based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts, and therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned (i.e., cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carry forwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the economic environment. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. Based on the assumptions and requirements noted above, we have recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States, and accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. 37 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 or 53 week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 each contained 52 weeks and ended on March 31, 2012 and April 2, 2011, respectively. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 contained 53 weeks and ended on April 3, 2010. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Comparison of Fiscal Year 2012 to Fiscal Year 2011 Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods or as digital downloads and designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), and PCs, (2) video games for mobile devices (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), (3) video games for tablets and electronic readers such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle, (4) software products and content and online game services associated with these products, (5) programming third party websites with our game content, (6) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (7) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. We provide three different measures of our Net Revenue. Two of these measures are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP) (1) Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue and (2) Net Revenue by Geography. The third measure is a non GAAP financial measure Net Revenue by Revenue Composition, which is primarily based on method of distribution. We use this third non GAAP financial measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of our management team. Management places a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of the Net Revenue by Revenue Composition than by Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue. These two measures differ as (1) Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue reflects the deferral and recognition of revenue in periods subsequent to the date of sale due to U.S. GAAP while Net Revenue by Revenue Composition does not, and (2) both measures contain a different aggregation of sales from one another. For instance, Service and other revenue does not include the majority of our full game digital download and mobile sales that are fully included in our Digital revenue. Further, Service and other revenue includes all of our revenue associated with MMO games while software sales associated with our MMOs are included in either Digital revenue or Publishing and other revenue depending on whether the sale was a full game digital download or a packaged goods sale. Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our total net revenue by product revenue and service and other revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 3,415 $ 3,181 $ 234 7 % Service and other 728 408 320 78 % Total net revenue $ 4,143 $ 3,589 $ 554 15 % Product Revenue Our product revenue includes revenue associated with the sale of game software, whether delivered via a disc (i.e., packaged goods) or via the Internet (i.e., full game download), that do not require our continuous hosting 38 Table of Contents support, and licensing of game software to third parties. This excludes game software from our MMO games (both game and subscription sales), which is included in service and other revenue as such game software requires continuous hosting support. Product revenue also includes mobile games that do not have an online service component and sales of tangible products such as hardware, peripherals, or collectors items. For fiscal year 2012, product revenue was $3,415 million, primarily driven by FIFA 12, Battlefield 3, and Madden NFL 12. Product revenue for fiscal year 2012 increased $234 million, or 7 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was driven by a $937 million increase primarily from the Battlefield, Crysis, and FIFA franchises. This increase was offset by a $703 million decrease primarily from the FIFA World Cup, Medal of Honor, Rock Band, and Army of Two franchises, as well as Dantes Inferno. Service and Other Revenue Our service revenue includes revenue recognized from games or related content that requires our hosting support to provide substantial gaming experience, and time based subscriptions. This includes (1) subscriptions for our Pogo branded online game services, (2) MMO games (both game and subscription sales), (3) entitlements to content that are delivered through hosting services (e.g., micro transactions for Internet based, social network and mobile games which includes freemium games), and (4) allocated service revenue from sales of online enable packaged goods with an online service component (i.e., matchmaking services). Our other revenue includes non software licensing and advertising revenue. For fiscal year 2012, service and other revenue was $728 million, primarily driven by (1) Star Wars: The Old Republic, which was launched in the third quarter, (2) our micro transactions revenue from browser based games including games played on Facebook such as The Sims Social, and (3) our FIFA Ultimate Team add on game service. Service and other revenue for fiscal year 2012 increased $320 million, or 78 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was primarily driven by a $351 million increase from certain services associated with the FIFA and The Sims franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic. This increase was partially offset by a $31 million decrease in service revenue generated by our Pogo branded online game services and the Warhammer and Ultima Online MMO franchises. In fiscal year 2013, we expect to increase our total service revenue as compared to fiscal year 2012. Net Revenue by Geography Year Ended March 31, (In millions) 2012 2011 $ Change % Change North America $ 1,991 $ 1,836 $ 155 8 % Europe 1,898 1,563 335 21 % Asia 254 190 64 34 % Total net revenue $ 4,143 $ 3,589 $ 554 15 % Net revenue in North America was $1,991 million, or 48% of total net revenue for fiscal year 2012, compared to $1,836 million, or 51% of total net revenue for fiscal year 2011, an increase of $155 million, or 8%. Net revenue in Europe and Asia was $2,152 million, or 52 percent of total net revenue for fiscal year 2012, compared to $1,753 million, or 49 percent of total net revenue for fiscal year 2011, an increase of $399 million, or 23 percent. The rapid increase in revenue outside of North America was primarily the result of increased sales from our FIFA, Battlefield, and Crysis franchises in Europe. Additionally, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies contributed to an increase of total reported net revenue of approximately $143 million (primarily the Swiss Franc and Australian Dollar), or 3 percent of total net revenue. 39 Table of Contents Supplemental Net Revenue by Revenue Composition As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally via the Internet, we place a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of net revenue by revenue composition. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, a non GAAP financial measure, is provided in this section of MD&A, including a discussion of the components of this measure: (1) publishing and other, (2) wireless, Internet derived, and advertising (digital), and (3) distribution. See Non GAAP Financial Measures below for an explanation of our use of this non GAAP financial measure. A reconciliation to the corresponding measure calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP is provided in the discussion below. Revenue Deferral in this Net Revenue section includes the unrecognized revenue from (1) bundled sales of software and software related offerings for which we do not have VSOE for the software related offerings, (2) certain sales of MMO games, and (3) entitlements to content that are delivered through hosting services, which are types of micro transactions. Fluctuations in the Revenue Deferral are largely dependent upon the amounts of products that we sell with the online features and services previously discussed, while the Recognition of Revenue Deferral for a period is also dependent upon (1) the amount deferred, (2) the period of time the software related offerings are to be provided, and (3) the timing of the sale. For example, most Revenue Deferrals incurred in the first half of a fiscal year are recognized within the same fiscal year; however, substantially all of the Revenue Deferrals incurred in the last month of a fiscal year will be recognized in the subsequent fiscal year. Our total net revenue by revenue composition for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change Publishing and other $ 2,736 $ 2,781 $ (45 ) (2 %) Wireless, Internet derived, and advertising (digital) 1,227 833 394 47 % Distribution 223 214 9 4 % Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral 4,186 3,828 358 9 % Revenue Deferral (3,142 ) (2,769 ) (373 ) 13 % Recognition of Revenue Deferral 3,099 2,530 569 22 % Net Revenue $ 4,143 $ 3,589 $ 554 15 % Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral Publishing and Other Revenue Publishing and other revenue includes (1) sales of our internally developed and co published game software distributed physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers, (2) our non software licensing revenue, and (3) our software licensing revenue from third parties (for example, makers of personal computers or computer accessories) who include certain of our products for sale with their products (OEM bundles). For fiscal year 2012, publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $2,736 million, primarily driven by Battlefield 3, FIFA 12, and Madden NFL 12. Publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2012 decreased $45 million, or 2 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This decrease was driven by a $1,163 million decrease in sales primarily from the Medal of Honor, Need for Speed, FIFA World Cup, Dragon Age, and Dead Space franchises. This decrease was offset by a $1,118 million increase in sales primarily from the Battlefield, Mass Effect, and FIFA franchises. 40 Table of Contents Wireless, Internet derived, and Advertising (Digital) Revenue Digital revenue includes revenue from sales of our internally developed and co published game software distributed through direct download through the Internet, including through our direct to consumer platform Origin, or distributed wirelessly through mobile carriers. This includes our full game downloads, mobile and tablet revenue (each of which are generally classified as product revenue with the exception of our MMO game downloads which are classified as service revenue) as well as subscription services, micro transactions, and advertising revenues (each of which is generally classified as service and other revenue). For fiscal year 2012, digital Net Revenue before Deferral was $1,227 million, an increase of $394 million, or 47 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was driven by a $452 million increase in sales primarily from the FIFA and The Sims franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic. This increase was offset by a $58 million decrease in sales primarily from the Tetris and Warhammer franchises, as well as a decrease in sales generated by our Pogo branded online services. Distribution Revenue Distribution revenue includes (1) sales of game software developed by independent game developers that we distribute and (2) sales through our Switzerland distribution business. For fiscal year 2012, distribution Net Revenue was $223 million and increased $9 million, or 4 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011 driven by an $89 million increase in sales in the Portal franchise. This increase was offset by an $80 million decrease primarily driven by a decrease in sales in the Rock Band franchise. Revenue Deferral Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2012 increased $373 million, or 13 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was primarily due to (1) a 47 percent increase in our current year digital sales and (2) a higher percentage of both our publishing and digital sales being deferred and recognized over time, due in part to a 135 percent increase in full game download sales and a 47 percent increase in micro transaction sales, of which both contain an online service component which requires revenue recognition as the service is delivered. Recognition of Revenue Deferral The vast majority of our sales are deferred and recognized over a six month period, and therefore, the related revenue recognized in any fiscal year is primarily due to sales that occurred during the respective twelve months period ended December 31. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2012 increased $569 million, or 22 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was primarily due to increased publishing and digital sales during the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, and a higher percentage of those sales being comprised of games sales that have an online service component, as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2011. Net Revenue For fiscal year 2012, Net Revenue was $4,143 million and increased $554 million, or 15 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was driven by a $1,312 million increase in revenue primarily from the Battlefield, Crysis, and FIFA franchises. This increase was offset by a $758 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Medal of Honor, FIFA World Cup, and Army of Two franchises, as well as Dantes Inferno, for which there were no iterations in fiscal year 2012. 41 Table of Contents Our product and service and other revenue by revenue composition for the fiscal years 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Product revenue: Publishing and other $ 2,674 $ 2,558 Wireless, Internet derived, and advertising (digital) 518 409 Distribution 223 214 Total product revenue 3,415 3,181 Service and other revenue: Publishing and other 87 74 Wireless, Internet derived, and advertising (digital) 641 334 Total service and other revenue 728 408 Total net revenue $ 4,143 $ 3,589 Non GAAP Financial Measures Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral is a non GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral on Net Revenue related to sales of games and digital content. Revenue Deferral includes the unrecognized revenue from (1) bundled sales of software and software related offerings for which we do not have VSOE for the software related offerings, (2) certain sales of MMO games, and (3) entitlements to content that are delivered through hosting services, which are types of micro transactions. We recognize the revenue from these games over the estimated period. We believe that excluding the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral related to games and digital content from our operating results is important to facilitate comparisons between periods in understanding our underlying sales performance for the period, and understanding our operations because all related costs of revenues are expensed as incurred instead of deferred and recognized ratably. We use this non GAAP financial measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of our management team. While we believe that this non GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non GAAP financial measure may not be the same as non GAAP financial measures presented by other companies. Cost of Revenue Total cost of revenue for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): March 31,2012 % ofRelated NetRevenue March 31,2011 % ofRelated NetRevenue % Change Change as a% of RelatedNet Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 1,374 40.2 % $ 1,407 44.2 % (2.3 %) (4.0 %) Service and other 224 30.8 % 92 22.5 % 143.5 % 8.3 % Total cost of revenue $ 1,598 38.6 % $ 1,499 41.8 % 6.6 % (3.2 %) 42 Table of Contents Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations, and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of product revenue decreased by $33 million, or 2.3 percent in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011. The decrease was primarily due to a 135 percent increase in full game downloads that have a lower cost than our other products in fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011. Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue consists primarily of (1) data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our online games and websites, (2) platform processing fees from operating our website based games on third party platforms, (3) associated royalty costs, (4) credit card fees associated with our service revenue, and (5) server costs related to our website advertising business. Cost of service and other revenue increased by $132 million, or 143.5 percent in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011. The increase was primarily due to increased server and support costs due to the release of more online connected and subscription based titles and related content during fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011. As our service revenue in fiscal year 2013 is expected to increase as compared to fiscal year 2012, we expect a corresponding increase in our service and support costs. Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During fiscal year 2012, total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by 3.2 percent as compared to fiscal year 2011. This decrease as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to (1) a greater percentage of net revenue from our digital products, that have a lower cost than our other products, which positively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 3.5 percent and (2) a $196 million decrease in the change in deferred net revenue related to certain online enabled packaged goods and digital content for fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011, which positively impacted gross profit as a percent of total net revenue by 2.2 percent. These decreases are partially offset by (1) increased expenses related to our online and customer experience initiatives, which negatively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue by 1.2 percent, (2) an increase in amortization of our acquisition related intangibles resulting mainly from the PopCap acquisition in fiscal year 2012, which negatively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue by 0.9 percent, and (3) an increase in sales of our distribution products which carry a higher royalty percentage than our other products, which negatively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue by 0.9 percent. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre launch products. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of website content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2012 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $1,212 29% $1,153 32% $59 5% 43 Table of Contents Research and development expenses increase by $59 million, or 5 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was primarily due to (1) a $68 million increase in personnel related costs and (2) a $13 million increase in facilities related expenses both primarily resulting from an increase in headcount in connection with recent acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by a $23 million decrease in development costs primarily due to a decrease in titles under development. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel related costs, related overhead costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $853 21% $747 21% $106 14% Marketing and sales expenses increased by $106 million, or 14 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011. The increase was primarily due to (1) a $50 million increase in additional personnel related costs resulting from an increase in headcount in connection with recent acquisitions, (2) a $29 million increase in marketing, advertising and promotional spending, and (3) a $18 million increase in contracted service costs related to online and customer relationship initiatives. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $39 million and $31 million in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $375 9% $301 8% $74 25% General and administrative expenses increased by $74 million, or 25 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011. The increase was primarily due to (1) a $34 million increase in contracted service costs related to online initiatives, litigation, and recent acquisitions, (2) a $27 million accrual related to a potential settlement of an on going litigation matter, (3) a $13 million increase in bad debt expense, and (4) a $13 million increase in additional personnel related costs resulting from an increase in headcount in connection with recent acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by a $15 million decrease in facility overhead costs. Acquisition Related Contingent Consideration Acquisition related contingent consideration for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $11 $(17) $28 (165%) Acquisition related contingent consideration expense increased by $28 million, or 165 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011, primarily related to (1) a $19 million prior year decrease of our accrual in 44 Table of Contents connection with our Playfish acquisition resulting from revisions in our estimate of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation was expected to be settled with no comparable revision to decrease the accrual in fiscal year 2012 and (2) a contributing increase of $9 million resulting from contingent consideration from other acquisitions in the current year. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $43 1% $57 2% $(14) (25%) Amortization of intangibles decreased by $14 million, or 25 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This decrease was primarily due to certain intangible assets from our prior year acquisitions being fully amortized during the fiscal year 2012. Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and other charges for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $16 $161 4% $(145) (90%) Restructuring and other charges decreased by $145 million, or 90 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011, due to (1) no new restructuring initiatives in fiscal year 2012 and (2) a gain of $10 million recognized during the second quarter of fiscal year 2012 on the sale of our facility in Chertsey, England related to our fiscal year 2008 reorganization. These items are partially offset by adjustments to the estimated loss for the amendment of certain licensing agreements related to our fiscal 2011 restructuring. We expect to incur between $12 million and $17 million non cash related accretion of interest expense through June 2016, related to the amendment of a licensing agreement under our fiscal year 2011 plan. We do not expect to incur any additional restructuring charges under any other preceding plans. On May 7, 2012, we announced a plan of restructuring to align our cost structure with our ongoing digital transformation. Under this plan, we anticipate reducing our workforce and incurring other costs. We expect the majority of these actions to be completed by September 30, 2012. In connection with this plan, we anticipate incurring approximately $40 million in total costs, of which approximately $31 million will result in future cash expenditures. All of these charges are expected to occur during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. These costs will consist of severance and other employee related costs (approximately $23 million), license termination costs (approximately $11 million) and other costs (approximately $6 million). Gains (Losses) on Strategic Investments, Net Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2012 % of NetRevenue March 31,2011 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $ $23 1% $(23) (100%) We did not recognize any impairment charges or losses during the year ended March 31, 2012. During the year ended March 31, 2011, we realized a gain of $28 million, net of costs to sell, from the sale of our investment in Ubisoft. 45 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2012 % of NetRevenue March 31,2011 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $(17) $10 $(27) (270%) Interest and other income (expense), net decreased by $27 million, or 270 percent, during fiscal year 2012 as compared to the fiscal year 2011, primarily due to (1) a $19 million increase in interest expense due to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016, which were issued in July 2011 and (2) $8 million increase in foreign currency transaction losses as compared to the same period in the prior year. Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): March 31,2012 EffectiveTax Rate March 31,2011 Effective TaxRate $(58) (322.2%) $(3) (1.1%) Our effective tax rate for the fiscal year 2012 was a tax benefit of 322.2 percent. Our effective tax rate for the fiscal year 2011 was a tax benefit of 1.1 percent. In fiscal year 2012 we recorded approximately $58 million of additional net deferred tax liabilities related to the PopCap and KlickNation Corporation (KlickNation) acquisitions. These additional deferred tax liabilities create a new source of taxable income, thereby requiring us to release a portion of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance with a related reduction in income tax expense of $58 million. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2012, we recorded $48 million of additional tax benefits related to the expiration of statutes of limitations in non U.S. tax jurisdictions. Consistent with prior years, the fiscal year 2012 effective tax rate continues to differ from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent as a result of the utilization of U.S. deferred tax assets subject to a valuation allowance and non U.S. profits subject to a reduced or zero tax rate, partially offset by non deductible stock based compensation. In addition, the fiscal year 2012 effective tax rate is impacted by tax benefits related to the expiration of statutes of limitations and the resolution of examinations by taxing authorities, as well as a reduction in the U.S. valuation allowance related to the PopCap and KlickNation acquisitions. In fiscal year 2011, the effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized, non U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit and non deductible stock based compensation expenses, partially offset by tax benefits related to the expiration of statutes of limitations and resolution of examination by taxing authorities. Our effective income tax rates for fiscal year 2013 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, as well as changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in or termination of our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre tax consolidated income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law have not been considered as a source of future taxable income that is available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. 46 Table of Contents The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 (the Act) was signed into law on December 17, 2010. The Act contains a number of provisions including, most notably, a two year extension of the research tax credit. The Act did not have a material impact on our effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 due to the effect of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. Comparison of Fiscal Year 2011 to Fiscal Year 2010 Net Revenue Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our total net revenue by product revenue and service and other revenue for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, 2011 2010 $ Change % Change Net Revenue: Product $ 3,181 $ 3,332 $ (151 ) (5 %) Service and other 408 322 86 (27 %) Total net revenue $ 3,589 $ 3,654 $ (65 ) (2 %) Product Revenue For fiscal year 2011, product revenue was $3,181 million, primarily driven by FIFA 11, Battlefield: Bad Company 2, and Madden NFL 11. Product revenue for fiscal year 2011 decreased $151 million, or 5 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease was driven by a $1,070 million decrease primarily from the Rock Band, Half Life, EA SPORTS Active, and Fight Night franchises. This decrease was offset by a $919 million increase primarily from the Battlefield, Medal of Honor, and FIFA World Cup franchises. Service and Other Revenue For fiscal year 2011, service and other revenue was $408 million, primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team, Restaurant City, and Pet Society. Service and other revenue for fiscal year 2011 increased $86 million, or 27 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This increase was driven by a $137 million increase from certain franchises, including the FIFA, Madden, and The Sims franchises. This increase was offset by a $51 million decrease from revenue generated by our Pogo branded online services and the Warhammer and NBA Live franchises. Net Revenue by Geography Year Ended March 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 $ Change % Change North America $ 1,836 $ 2,025 $ (189 ) (9 %) Europe 1,563 1,433 130 9 % Asia 190 196 (6 ) (3 %) Total net revenue $ 3,589 $ 3,654 $ (65 ) (2 %) 47 Table of Contents Net revenue in North America was $1,836 million, or 51% of total net revenue for fiscal year 2011, compared to $2,025 million, or 55% of total net revenue for fiscal year 2010, a decrease of $189 million, or 9%. Net revenue in Europe and Asia was $1,753 million, or 49 percent of total net revenue for fiscal year 2011, compared to $1,629 million, or 45 percent of total net revenue for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $124 million, or 8 percent. The increase in revenue outside of North America was the primarily the result of increased revenue from the Battlefield, Medal of Honor, and FIFA World Cup franchises in Europe. Additionally, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies contributed to a net decrease of total reported net revenue of approximately $71 million (primarily the Euro), or 4 percent of total net revenue. Supplemental Net Revenue by Revenue Composition Our total net revenue by revenue composition for the fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, 2011 2010 $ Change % Change Publishing and other $ 2,781 $ 2,983 $ (202 ) (7 %) Wireless, Internet derived, and advertising (digital) 833 570 263 46 % Distribution 214 606 (392 ) (65 %) Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral 3,828 4,159 (331 ) (8 %) Revenue Deferral (2,769 ) (2,358 ) (411 ) 17 % Recognition of Revenue Deferral 2,530 1,853 677 37 % Net Revenue $ 3,589 $ 3,654 $ (65 ) (2 %) Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral Publishing and Other Revenue For fiscal year 2011, publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $2,781 million, primarily driven by FIFA 11, Madden 11, and Need for Speed Hot Pursuit. Publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2011 decreased $202 million, or 7 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease was driven by a $943 million decrease in sales primarily from the Battlefield, Army of Two, Mass Effect, EA SPORTS Active, NBA Live, and Godfather franchises, as well as Dantes Inferno. This decrease was offset by a $741 million increase in sales primarily from the Medal of Honor, FIFA World Cup, and Crysis franchises. Wireless, Internet derived, and Advertising (Digital) Revenue For fiscal year 2011, digital Net Revenue before Deferral was $833 million, an increase of $263 million, or 46 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This increase was driven by a $318 million increase in sales primarily from the FIFA, Battlefield, Madden, The Sims, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, Medal of Honor, Dragon Age, and Dead Space franchises, as well as Scrabble. This increase was offset by a $55 million decrease in sales primarily from the Warhammer and Tetris franchises, as well as a decrease in sales generated from our Pogo branded online services. Distribution Revenue For fiscal year 2011, distribution Net Revenue was $214 million and decreased $392 million, or 65 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010 driven by a $403 million decrease in sales primarily in the Rock Band and Portal franchises. This decrease was partially offset by an $11 million increase in sales primarily from Rango. 48 Table of Contents Revenue Deferral Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2011 increased $411 million, or 17 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This increase was primarily due to (1) a 46 percent increase in our digital sales and (2) a higher percentage of both our publishing and digital sales being deferred and recognized over time, due in part to a 148 percent increase in micro transaction sales and a 27 percent increase in full game download sales, of which both contain an online service component which requires revenue recognition as the service is delivered. Recognition of Revenue Deferral The vast majority of our sales are deferred and recognized over a six month period, and therefore the related revenue recognized in any fiscal year is primarily due to sales that occurred during the respective twelve months period ended December 31. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2011 increased $677 million, or 37 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This increase was primarily due to increased publishing and digital sales during the 18 months ended March 31, 2011, and a higher percentage of those sales being comprised of game sales that have an online service component, as compared to fiscal year 2010. Net Revenue For fiscal year 2011, Net Revenue was $3,589 million and decreased $65 million, or 2 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease was driven by a $1,125 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Rock Band, Left 4 Dead, and EA SPORTS Active franchises. This decrease was offset by a $1,060 million increase in revenue primarily from the Battlefield and Medal of Honor franchises. Our product and service and other revenue by revenue composition for the fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions): Change as a Change as a Year EndedMarch 31, 2011 2010 Product revenue: Publishing and other $ 2,558 $ 2,431 Wireless, Internet derived, and advertising (digital) 409 295 Distribution 214 606 Total product revenue 3,181 3,332 Service and other revenue: Publishing and other 74 95 Wireless, Internet derived, and advertising (digital) 334 227 Total service and other revenue 408 322 Total net revenue $ 3,589 $ 3,654 Cost of Revenue Total cost of revenue for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions): Change as a Change as a Change as a Change as a Change as a Change as a March 31,2011 % ofRelated NetRevenue March 31,2010 % ofRelated NetRevenue % Change Change as a% of RelatedNet Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 1,407 44.2 % $ 1,788 53.7 % (21.3 %) (9.5 %) Service and other 92 22.5 % 78 24.2 % 17.9 % (1.7 %) Total cost of revenue $ 1,499 41.8 % $ 1,866 51.1 % (19.7 %) (9.3 %) 49 Table of Contents Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue decreased by $381 million, or 21.3 percent in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010. The decrease was primarily due to (1) a 27 percent increase in full game digital downloads that have a lower cost than our other products and (2) a decrease in sales of our distribution products which carry a higher royalty cost. Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue increased by $14 million, or 17.9 percent in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010. The increase was primarily due to server and support costs due to the release of more online connected and subscription based titles and related content during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010. Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During fiscal year 2011, total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by 9.3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to (1) a $266 million decrease in the change in deferred net revenue related to certain online enabled packaged goods and digital content for fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010, which positively impacted gross profit as a percent of total net revenue by 3.7 percent and (2) a greater percentage of net revenue from EA studio and digital products, which have a higher margin than our co publishing and distribution products, which positively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 3.3 percent. Research and Development Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2011 % of NetRevenue March 31,2010 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $1,153 32% $1,229 34% $(76) (6%) Research and development expenses decreased by $76 million, or 6 percent, in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease was primarily due to decreases in expenses resulting from our cost reduction initiatives including (1) a $38 million decrease in external development and contracted services, (2) a $37 million decrease in additional personnel related costs, and (3) a $27 million decrease in facilities related expenses primarily due to lower depreciation expense. These decreases were partially offset by a $24 million increase in incentive based compensation expense. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2011 % of NetRevenue March 31,2010 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $747 21% $730 20% $17 2% Marketing and sales expenses increased by $17 million, or 2 percent, in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010. The increase was primarily due to (1) a $13 million increase in additional personnel related costs and (2) a $5 million increase in stock based compensation expense. These increases were partially offset by a $5 million decrease in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses reflecting fewer titles released during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $31 million and $39 million in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. 50 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2011 % of NetRevenue March 31,2010 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $301 8% $320 9% $(19) (6%) General and administrative expenses decreased by $19 million, or 6 percent, in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010 primarily due to (1) a $25 million decrease in facilities related expenses, primarily as a result of the $14 million loss on our lease obligation related to our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities in fiscal year 2010 and (2) an $18 million decrease in contracted services due to costs related to the support of business development projects in the prior year. These decreases were partially offset by (1) a $13 million increase in additional personnel related costs, (2) a $12 million increase in incentive based compensation expense, and (3) a $7 million increase in stock based compensation expense. Acquisition Related Contingent Consideration Acquisition related contingent consideration related to Playfish decreased $19 million for the fiscal year 2011 as compared to the fiscal year 2010, resulting from a revision in our estimate of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the contingent obligation is expected to be settled. Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and other charges for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2011 % of NetRevenue March 31,2010 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $161 4% $140 4% $21 15% Fiscal 2011 Restructuring In fiscal year 2011, we announced a plan focused on the restructuring of certain licensing and developer agreements in an effort to improve the long term profitability of our packaged goods business. Under this plan, we amended certain licensing and developer agreements. To a much lesser extent, as part of this restructuring we had workforce reductions and facilities closures through March 31, 2011. Substantially all of these exit activities were completed by March 31, 2011. During fiscal year 2011, we incurred charges of $148 million, consisting of (1) $104 million related to the amendment of certain licensing agreements and other intangible asset impairment costs, (2) $31 million related to the amendment of certain developer agreements, and (3) $13 million in employee related expenses. Fiscal 2010 Restructuring In connection with our fiscal 2010 restructuring plan, during fiscal year 2011, we incurred $13 million of restructuring charges primarily due to costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. During fiscal year 2010, we incurred $116 million of restructuring charges of which (1) $62 million were for employee related expenses, (2) $32 million related to intangible asset impairment costs, abandoned rights to intellectual property, and costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and (3) $22 million related to the closure of certain of our facilities. Other Restructuring and Reorganization In connection with our fiscal 2009 restructuring plan and fiscal 2008 reorganization plan, during fiscal year 2010, we incurred $14 million and $10 million of charges, respectively, primarily for facilities related expenses under the fiscal 2009 plan and contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions under the fiscal 2008 plan. 51 Table of Contents Gains (Losses) on Strategic Investments, Net Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): March 31,2011 % of NetRevenue March 31,2010 % of NetRevenue $ Change % Change $23 1% $(26) (1%) $49 (188%) Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net increased by $49 million, in fiscal year 2011 as compared to the fiscal year 2010, primarily due to a realized gain of $28 million, net of costs to sell, from the sale of our investment in Ubisoft. We recognized a $26 million impairment charge on our investment in The9 in fiscal year 2010. Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions): March 31,2011 EffectiveTax Rate March 31,2010 Effective Tax Rate $(3) (1.1%) $(29) (4.1%) Our effective tax rate for the fiscal year 2011 was a tax benefit of 1.1 percent. Our effective tax rate for the fiscal year 2010 was a tax benefit of 4.1 percent. In fiscal year 2011, the effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized, non U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit and non deductible stock based compensation expenses, partially offset by tax benefits related to the expiration of statutes of limitations and resolution of examination by taxing authorities. In fiscal year 2010, the effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized, tax charges related to our integration of Playfish, non U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit, and non deductible stock based compensation expenses, partially offset by benefits related to the resolution of examinations by the taxing authorities and reductions in the valuation allowance of U.S. deferred tax assets. The Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act of 2009 (the Act) was signed into law on November 6, 2009. The Act provides that taxpayers may elect to increase the carry back period for tax losses incurred in a taxable year beginning or ending in either 2008 or 2009. During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009, we elected to increase the carry back period for tax losses incurred in fiscal year 2009. This election resulted in a reduction in the valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets due to an increase in the sources of taxable income from the extended carry back period. As a result, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $28 million in the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009 for the reduction in the valuation allowance. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011 05 requires one of two alternatives for presenting comprehensive income and eliminates the option to report other comprehensive income and its components as a part of the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity. Additionally, ASU 2011 05 requires presentation on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The requirement related to the reclassification adjustments from other comprehensive income to net income was deferred in December 2011, as a result of the issuance of ASU 2011 12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update 2011 05 (Topic 220). The amendments in ASU 2011 05, as amended by ASU 2011 12, do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive 52 Table of Contents income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. ASU 2011 05, as amended by ASU 2011 12 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2011 and is to be applied retrospectively. We will adopt ASU 2011 05 during the first quarter of fiscal 2013. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2011 05, as amended by ASU 2011 12 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 11, Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities, which creates new disclosure requirements about the nature of an entitys rights of offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative instruments. The disclosure requirements are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods therein, with retrospective application required. The new disclosures are designed to make financial statements that are prepared under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles more comparable to those prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards. We are evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 11 on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 53 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As ofMarch 31, Decrease (In millions) 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,293 $ 1,579 $ (286 ) Short term investments 437 497 (60 ) Marketable equity securities 119 161 (42 ) Total $ 1,849 $ 2,237 $ (388 ) Percentage of total assets 34 % 45 % Year EndedMarch 31, Change (In millions) 2012 2011 Cash provided by operating activities $ 277 $ 320 $ (43 ) Cash used in investing activities (689 ) (15 ) (674 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 140 (23 ) 163 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (14 ) 24 (38 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (286 ) $ 306 $ (592 ) Changes in Cash Flow Operating Activities. Cash provided by operating activities decreased $43 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to (1) an increase in expenses due to our online and customer experience initiatives, (2) an increase in personnel related costs from recent acquisitions, and (3) an increase in marketing, advertising and promotional spending on our franchises. This difference is partially offset by a greater percentage of net revenue from our digital products, which have a higher margin than our other products. Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities increased $674 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to a $660 million increase in cash used for acquisitions, the majority of which was used to fund our acquisition of PopCap, and a $113 million increase in capital expenditures. Contributing to this increase, we received $132 million in proceeds from the sale of our Ubisoft and The9 investments during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 with no comparable sale of our investments during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. These items were partially offset by (1) a $84 million increase in proceeds received from the maturities and sales of short term investments, (2) a $75 million increase due to the release of restriction on previously classified restricted cash due to the achievement of certain performance milestones in connection with our acquisition of Playfish, (3) a $46 million decrease in the purchase of short term investments, and (4) $26 million proceeds received from the sale of our facility in Chertsey, England. Financing Activities. Cash provided by financing activities increased $163 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to (1) $617 million in proceeds received from the sale of 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016, net of issuance costs and (2) $65 million proceeds received from the issuance of Warrants in connection with the Notes. These items were partially offset by (1) a $413 million increase in the repurchase and retirement of our common stock, net of commissions, pursuant to our Stock Repurchase Program and (2) $107 million paid for the purchase of the Convertible Note Hedge. 54 Table of Contents Short term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short term interest rates. As of March 31, 2012, our short term investments had gross unrealized gains of $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. The fair value of our marketable equity securities decreased to $119 million as of March 31, 2012 from $161 million as of March 31, 2011 primarily due to a decrease in the value of our investment in Neowiz. Restricted Cash and Contingent Consideration As of March 31, 2012, primarily in connection with our acquisitions of PopCap, KlickNation, and Chillingo Limited (Chillingo), we may be required to pay an additional $572 million of cash consideration based upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2015. In fiscal year 2010, in connection with our Playfish acquisition, we deposited $100 million into an escrow account related to the contingent consideration. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, $25 million was paid to settle performance milestones earned through December 31, 2011 in connection with the Playfish acquisition, and $50 million was reclassified and converted to available cash and cash equivalents. As of March 31, 2012, $25 million remains in restricted cash related to the Playfish performance milestones, which we expect to pay in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. In addition, in connection with our PopCap acquisition, we acquired an additional $6 million of restricted cash which is held in an escrow account in the event that certain liabilities become due. As these deposits are restricted in nature, they are excluded from cash and cash equivalents. As of March 31, 2012, the restricted cash of $31 million is included in other current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fiscal 2011 Restructuring In connection with our fiscal 2011 restructuring plan, we expect to incur cash expenditures through June 2016 of approximately (1) $24 million in both fiscal years 2013 and 2014, (2) $17 million in fiscal year 2015, (3) $3 million in fiscal year 2016, and (4) $20 million in fiscal year 2017. The actual cash expenditures are variable as they will be dependent upon the actual revenue we generate from certain games. Fiscal 2013 Restructuring On May 7, 2012, we announced a plan of restructuring to align our cost structure with our ongoing digital transformation. Under this plan, we anticipate reducing our workforce and incurring other costs. We expect the majority of these actions to be completed by September 30, 2012. In connection with this plan, we anticipate incurring approximately $40 million in total costs, of which approximately $31 million will result in future cash expenditures. All of these charges are expected to occur during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. These costs will consist of severance and other employee related costs (approximately $23 million), license termination costs (approximately $11 million) and other costs (approximately $6 million). Financing Arrangement In July 2011, we issued $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the Notes). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations which pay interest semi annually in arrears at a rate of 0.75 percent per annum on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2012 and will mature on July 15, 2016, unless earlier purchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The Notes are convertible into cash and shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion value of 31.5075 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of 55 Table of Contents approximately $31.74 per share). Upon conversion of the Notes, holders will receive cash up to the principal amount of each Note, and any excess conversion value will be delivered in shares of our common stock. We used the net proceeds of the Notes to finance our acquisition of PopCap, which closed in August 2011. Prior to April 15, 2016, the Notes will be convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events and during certain periods, and thereafter, at any time until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of the Notes. The Notes do not contain any financial covenants. The conversion rate is subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. Following certain corporate events described in the indenture governing the notes (the Indenture) that occur prior to the maturity date, the conversion rate will be increased for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with such corporate event in certain circumstances. The Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity, and no sinking fund is provided for the Notes. If we undergo a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, subject to certain conditions, holders may require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of their Notes. The fundamental change purchase price will be 100 percent of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to but excluding the fundamental change purchase date. The Indenture contains customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare 100 percent of the principal and accrued and unpaid interest on all the Notes to be due and payable. In addition, in July 2011, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions (the Convertible Note Hedge) with certain counterparties to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the Notes. The Convertible Note Hedge, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, provide us with the option to acquire, on a net settlement basis, approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.74, which corresponds to the conversion price of the Notes and is equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Notes. As of March 31, 2012, we have not purchased any shares under the Convertible Note Hedge. We paid $107 million for the Convertible Note Hedge. Separately, we have also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions with the certain counterparties whereby we sold to independent third parties warrants (the Warrants) to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments that are substantially the same as the anti dilution provisions contained in the Notes, up to 19.9 million shares of our common stock (which is also equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Notes), with a strike price of $41.14. The Warrants could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of its common stock exceeds $41.14 on or prior to the expiration date of the Warrants. We received proceeds of $65 million from the sale of the Warrants. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016. Financial Condition We believe that cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable equity securities, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, and potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. 56 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2012, approximately $878 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments and $57 million of our marketable equity securities were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. In February 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the next 18 months. We completed our program in April 2012. We repurchased approximately 32 million shares in the open market since the commencement of the program, including pursuant to pre arranged stock trading plans. During the fiscal year 2012, we repurchased and retired approximately 25 million shares of our common stock for approximately $471 million, net of commissions. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non employee software developers (independent artists or third party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited), and DFL Deutsche Fu&szlig;ball Liga GmbH (German Soccer League) (professional soccer); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR, Tiger Woods and Augusta National (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); National Football League Properties, PLAYERS Inc., and Red Bear Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS games); Hasbro, Inc. (most of Hasbros toy and game intellectual properties); and LucasArts and Lucas Licensing (Star Wars: The Old Republic). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non royalty bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our unrecognized minimum contractual obligations as of March 31, 2012, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Contractual Obligations Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Leases(a) Developer/LicensorCommitments Marketing Convertible NotesInterest(b) OtherPurchaseObligations Total 2013 $ 54 $ 158 $ 52 $ 5 $ 15 $ 284 2014 48 123 51 5 7 234 2015 40 116 32 5 193 2016 28 166 33 5 232 2017 15 8 18 2 43 Thereafter 26 239 77 342 Total $ 211 $ 810 $ 263 $ 22 $ 22 $ 1,328 (a) See discussion on operating leases in the Off Balance Sheet Commitments section below for additional information. Lease commitments have not been reduced by minimum sub lease rentals for unutilized office space resulting from our reorganization activities of approximately $7 million due in the future under non cancelable sub leases. (b) In addition to the interest payments reflected in the table above, we will be obligated to pay the $632.5 million principal amount of the 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 and any excess conversion value in shares of our common stock upon redemption after the maturity of the Notes on July 15, 2016 or earlier. See Note 11 for additional information related to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016. The amounts represented in the table above reflect our unrecognized minimum cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be recognized and expensed in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the amounts in the table above are presented based on the dates the amounts are contractually due; however, certain payment obligations may be accelerated depending on the performance of our operating results. In addition to what is included in the table above as of March 31, 2012, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $251 million, of which approximately $43 million is offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution. For the remaining liability, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. In addition to what is included in the table above as of March 31, 2012, primarily in connection with our PopCap, KlickNation, and Chillingo acquisitions, we may be required to pay an additional $572 million of cash consideration based upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2015. As of March 31, 2012, we have accrued $112 million of contingent consideration on our Consolidated Balance Sheet representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration. OFF BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Lease Commitments As of March 31, 2012, we leased certain of our current facilities, furniture and equipment under non cancelable operating lease agreements. We were required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. Director Indemnity Agreements We entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the Directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the Directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. INFLATION We believe the impact of inflation on our results of operations has not been significant in any of the past three fiscal years. 58 Table of Contents Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk MARKET RISK We are exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and market prices, which have experienced significant volatility in light of the global economic downturn. Market risk is the potential loss arising from changes in market rates and market prices. We employ established policies and practices to manage these risks. Foreign currency option and forward contracts are used to hedge anticipated exposures or mitigate some existing exposures subject to foreign exchange risk as discussed below. While we do not hedge our short term investment portfolio, we protect our short term investment portfolio against different market risks, including interest rate risk as discussed below. Our cash and cash equivalents portfolio consists of highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and original or remaining maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. We also do not currently hedge our market price risk relating to our marketable equity securities and we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Cash Flow Hedging Activities. From time to time, we hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk related to forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and expense transactions by purchasing foreign currency option contracts that generally have maturities of 15 months or less. These transactions are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The derivative assets associated with our hedging activities are recorded at fair value in other current assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. The gross amount of the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is subsequently reclassified into net revenue or research and development expenses, as appropriate, in the period when the forecasted transaction is recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the event that the gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income are deemed to be ineffective, the ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reclassified to interest and other income (expense), net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the event that the underlying forecasted transactions do not occur, or it becomes remote that they will occur, within the defined hedge period, the gains or losses on the related cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income (expense), net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the reporting periods, all forecasted transactions occurred and, therefore, there were no such gains or losses reclassified into interest and other income (expense), net. Our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements in net revenue and research and development expenses. As of March 31, 2012, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $74 million in foreign currency and to sell approximately $78 million of foreign currency. All of the foreign currency option contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2012 will mature in the next 12 months. As of March 31, 2011, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $40 million in foreign currency and to sell approximately $10 million of foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2012, these foreign currency option contracts outstanding had a total fair value of $2 million and are included in other current assets. As of March 31, 2011, the fair value of these outstanding foreign currency option contracts was immaterial and are included in other current assets. Balance Sheet Hedging Activities. We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily intercompany receivables and payables. The foreign currency forward contracts generally have a contractual term of three months or less and are transacted near month end. Our foreign currency forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments, and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as other current assets or accrued and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other income (expense), net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts generally offset the gains and losses on the underlying foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which are also reported in interest and other income (expense), net, in our Consolidated Statements of 59 Table of Contents Operations. In certain cases, the amount of such gains and losses will significantly differ from the amount of gains and losses recognized on the underlying foreign currency denominated monetary asset or liability, in which case our results will be impacted. As of March 31, 2012, we had foreign currency forward contracts to purchase and sell approximately $242 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $197 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $37 million to purchase foreign currency in exchange for U.S. dollars, and $8 million to sell foreign currency in exchange for British pound sterling. As of March 31, 2011, we had foreign currency forward contracts to purchase and sell approximately $187 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $140 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $31 million to purchase foreign currency in exchange for U.S. dollars and $16 million to sell foreign currency in exchange for British pound sterling. The fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts was immaterial as of March 31, 2012 and 2011. We believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward and option contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks. While we believe the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material, the disruption in the global financial markets has impacted some of the financial institutions with which we do business. Further, the continued sovereign debt crisis in Europe could lead to increased counterparty risk with respect to financial institutions and other business partners, who are particularly vulnerable to the instability in certain European markets. A sustained decline in the financial stability of financial institutions as a result of the disruption in the financial markets could affect our ability to secure credit worthy counterparties for our foreign currency hedging programs. Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. As of March 31, 2012, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would have resulted in potential declines in the fair value of the premiums on our foreign currency option contracts used in cash flow hedging of less than $2 million in each scenario. As of March 31, 2012, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would have resulted in potential losses on our foreign currency forward contracts used in balance sheet hedging of $24 million and $37 million, respectively. This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar; however, all foreign currency exchange rates do not always move in such manner and actual results may differ materially. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our short term investment portfolio. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities. However, because short term investments mature relatively quickly and are required to be reinvested at the then current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of short term investments is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term investments. Additionally, the contractual terms of the investments do not permit the issuer to call, prepay or otherwise settle the investments at prices less than the stated par value. Our investments are held for purposes other than trading. Also, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our short term investment portfolio. 60 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, our short term investments were classified as available for sale securities and, consequently, were recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, in stockholders equity. Our portfolio of short term investments consisted of the following investment categories, summarized by fair value as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 (in millions): As of March 31, 2012 2011 U.S. Treasury securities $ 166 $ 124 Corporate bonds 150 253 U.S. agency securities 116 102 Commercial paper 5 18 Total short term investments $ 437 $ 497 Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. At any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in the fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2012, arising from potential changes in interest rates. The modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. (In millions) Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest Rate Decreaseof X Basis Points Fair Valueas ofMarch 31,2012 Valuation of Securities Givenan Interest Rate Increase ofX Basis Points (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS U.S. Treasury securities $ 169 $ 168 $ 167 $ 166 $ 165 $ 164 $ 162 Corporate bonds 152 151 150 150 148 148 147 U.S. agency securities 119 118 117 116 116 115 115 Commercial paper 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 Total short term investments $ 445 $ 442 $ 439 $ 437 $ 434 $ 432 $ 429 The following table presents the hypothetical changes in the fair value in our short term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2011, arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. (In millions) Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest Rate Decreaseof X Basis Points Fair Valueas ofMarch 31,2011 Valuation of Securities Givenan Interest Rate Increase ofX Basis Points (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS Corporate bonds $ 258 $ 257 $ 255 $ 253 $ 252 $ 250 $ 249 U.S. Treasury securities 126 125 124 124 123 122 121 U.S. agency securities 104 103 103 102 101 101 100 Commercial paper 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 Total short term investments $ 506 $ 503 $ 500 $ 497 $ 494 $ 491 $ 488 Market Price Risk The fair value of our marketable equity securities in publicly traded companies is subject to market price volatility and foreign currency risk for investments denominated in foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, our marketable equity securities were classified as available for sale securities and, consequently, were recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, in stockholders equity. The fair value of our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 was $119 million and $161 million, respectively. 61 Table of Contents Our marketable equity securities have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by volatility in the public stock markets. At any time, a sharp change in market prices in our investments in marketable equity securities could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. The following table presents hypothetical changes in the fair value of our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2012, arising from changes in market prices of plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent, and 75 percent. Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageDecrease in Each StocksMarket Price Fair Valueas ofMarch 31,2012 Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageIncrease in Each StocksMarket Price (In millions) (75%) (50%) (25%) 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 30 $ 60 $ 89 $ 119 $ 149 $ 179 $ 208 The following table presents hypothetical changes in the fair value of our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2011, arising from changes in market prices of plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent, and 75 percent. Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageDecrease in Each StocksMarket Price Fair Valueas ofMarch 31,2011 Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageIncrease in Each StocksMarket Price (In millions) (75%) (50%) (25%) 25% 50% 75% Marketable equity securities $ 40 $ 81 $ 121 $ 161 $ 201 $ 242 $ 282 62 Table of Contents 
 
