FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20071113151916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 13, 2007, People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") announced the hiring of Jeffrey Hoyt as Senior Vice President and Controller of the Company. In that capacity, Mr. Hoyt will serve as the Company's principal accounting officer. Mr. Hoyt, who is 37 years old, most recently served as Vice President Finance and Treasurer for Ethan Allen Interiors Inc. He joined that company as director of corporate accounting and financial reporting in August 2002, becoming a vice president in May 2003 and treasurer in April 2005.
As a result of Mr. Hoyt's appointment, Christina M. Bliven will relinquish her duties as Acting Controller of the Company, a position she had assumed in March of this year.
A copy of a press release announcing Mr. Hoyt's appointment is being filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 13, 2007
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL ANNOUNCES HIRE OF CONTROLLER
People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) announced today that it has hired Jeffrey Hoyt as Senior Vice President and Controller. Hoyt brings 15 years of accounting and finance experience in positions of increasing responsibility. He began his career with the financial services practice of KPMG LLP and, for the last five years, has held the position of Vice President of Finance and Treasurer for Ethan Allen Interiors Inc.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN. 
As Controller, Hoyt will report to Philip R. Sherringham, Chief Financial Officer and acting-CEO, and will be responsible for all matters relating to financial controls and accounting policy. Among his responsibilities, Hoyt will also be charged with ensuring that all regulatory reports and related filings continue to be submitted in accordance with the relevant requirements.
"We are pleased to have Jeff join us at People's United as we continue to move forward through this period of tremendous change and growth for the organization," Sherringham said. "I am confident that the depth of experience he brings will prove beneficial to our organization."
People's United Financial is a diversified financial services company providing consumer and commercial banking services through a network of 160 People's United Bank branches, including 75 locations in Super Stop & Shop stores. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.


