FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20070914113057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On September 14, 2007, People's United Financial, Inc. issued a press release providing information about the results of a medical procedure recently undergone by its Chief Executive Officer. A copy of the press release is being filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SEPTEMBER 14, 2007
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL CEO HAS SURGERY
 People's United Financial (NASDAQ: PBCT) today announced that President and Chief Executive Officer, John A. Klein, had undergone surgery to address a recurrence of cancer in the same area where he previously had cancer surgery. He reported in an e-mail to all employees that he was doing well and expects to return to the bank in early October. He stated that he is looking forward to returning to the office and continuing to lead the bank during this exciting period in its history. Mr. Klein also indicated that he would be working from home beginning next week and has been in day-to-day contact with the bank's executive officers.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN.
People's United Financial is a diversified financial services company providing consumer and commercial banking services, in addition to insurance, trust and financial advisory services. Its principal subsidiary, People's United Bank, is a leader in supermarket banking, with 75 of its 159 branches located in Super Stop & Shop stores. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides brokerage and financial advisory services, asset management, equipment financing and insurance services.


