FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20070823201610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
People's United Financial, Inc. ("People's United Financial") has provided preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information to Chittenden Corporation ("Chittenden") for inclusion in a registration statement on Form S-4 being filed by Chittenden in connection with its proposed acquisition of Community Bank & Trust Company. The information so provided is intended to present how the combined financial statements of People's United Financial and Chittenden may have appeared had the proposed merger between People's United Financial and Chittenden been completed as of certain specified dates.
A copy of the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information provided to Chittenden by People's United Financial is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 7.01 (including the Exhibit hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and notes present how the combined financial statements of People's United Financial, Inc. and Chittenden Corporation may have appeared had the proposed merger of People's United Financial and Chittenden been completed at the beginning of the periods presented.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the impact of the People's United Financial/Chittenden merger on the combined balance sheets and on the combined statements of income under the purchase method of accounting with People's United Financial treated as the acquirer. Under the purchase method of accounting, Chittenden's assets and liabilities are recorded by People's United Financial at their estimated fair values as of the date the merger is completed. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2007 assumes the merger was completed on that date. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2006 assume the merger was completed on January 1, 2006.
Included in the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet are pro forma purchase accounting adjustments for the pending merger of Chittenden and Community Bank & Trust Company, assuming this merger was completed prior to the merger of People's United Financial and Chittenden. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2006 do not include the results of operations of Community Bank due to their immateriality.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information assumes that the merger consideration consisted of approximately $1.0 billion in cash and approximately 43.8 million shares of People's United Financial common stock. The number of shares of People's United Financial common stock was calculated based on (1) the number of shares of Chittenden common stock outstanding on July 19, 2007; (2) the number of shares of Chittenden common stock expected to be issued upon completion of its pending acquisition of Community Bank; and (3) the $18.71 closing sale price of People's United Financial common stock on June 26, 2007, the last trading day before the People's United Financial/Chittenden merger was announced. Using those assumptions, the value of the merger consideration to be received in exchange for one share of Chittenden common stock would have been approximately $36.77 and each share of Chittenden common stock not exchanged for that amount in cash would have been exchangeable for 1.9652 shares of People's United Financial common stock.
The actual exchange ratio will depend on the average of the closing sales prices of People's United Financial common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the five trading days ending the day before the merger is completed. This average value may differ, perhaps substantially, from the closing sale price of People's United Financial common stock on June 26, 2007. The actual exchange ratio will also depend on the number of shares of Chittenden common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective date of the merger.
It is anticipated that the People's United Financial/Chittenden merger will provide People's United Financial with financial benefits such as possible revenue enhancements and expense savings, among other factors, although no assurances can be given that such benefits will actually be achieved. The impact of these benefits has not been reflected in the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. As required, the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information
 
includes adjustments that give effect to events that are directly attributable to the merger and factually supportable; as such, adjustments affecting the balance sheet, statement of income, or shares of common stock outstanding subsequent to the assumed merger completion dates have not been included.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the financial results of the combined companies had the People's United Financial/Chittenden merger actually been completed at the beginning of each period presented, nor does it indicate future results for any other interim or full-year period. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the allocation of the purchase price reflected in the preliminary pro forma condensed combined financial information is subject to adjustment. The preliminary purchase price allocation for the merger will vary from the actual purchase price allocation that will be recorded upon the completion of the merger based upon changes in the estimated fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired from Chittenden. In addition, subsequent to the merger completion date, there may be further refinements of the purchase price allocation as additional information becomes available.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes of People's United Financial and Chittenden.
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2007 combines the June 30, 2007 balance sheets of People's United Financial and Chittenden assuming the merger was completed on June 30, 2007.
Preliminary Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the six months ended June 30, 2007 combines the statements of income of People's United Financial and Chittenden assuming the merger was completed on January 1, 2006.
Preliminary Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2006 combines the statements of income of People's United Financial and Chittenden assuming the merger was completed on January 1, 2006.
Preliminary Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income
 
 
NOTES TO PRELIMINARY UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Note 1  Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation
The acquisition of Chittenden by People's United Financial will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and accordingly, Chittenden's assets acquired (including identifiable intangible assets and goodwill) and liabilities assumed will be recognized at fair value on the date the transaction is completed. The merger is expected to qualify as a tax-free reorganization for federal income tax purposes. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the merger is included as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2006. The financial statements of Chittenden have been adjusted to reflect reporting reclassifications necessary to conform to the presentation of the financial statements of People's United Financial.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the application of generally accepted accounting principles as of June 30, 2007. The adoption of new or changes to existing generally accepted accounting principles subsequent to June 30, 2007, including the adoption of SFAS No. 157 effective January 1, 2008, may result in significant changes to the final purchase accounting adjustments. No pro forma adjustment to the carrying value of loans or allowances have been recorded in accordance with the Statement of Position 03-3, "Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer," reflecting the insignificant level of Chittenden non-performing assets for the periods presented.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes estimated adjustments to record Chittenden's assets and liabilities at their respective fair values based on management's best estimate using the information available at this time. The pro forma adjustments may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analysis is performed. The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined after the merger is completed and after the completion of a final analysis to determine the fair values of Chittenden's tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of the closing date. The final purchase price accounting adjustments may differ materially from the pro forma adjustments presented in this document. Increases or decreases in fair value of certain balance sheet amounts and other items of Chittenden as compared to the information presented in this document may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in yield and/or amortization of adjusted assets and liabilities.
The pro forma basic and diluted common shares were calculated using People's United Financial's actual weighted-average shares outstanding for the periods presented, plus the incremental shares expected to be issued, assuming the merger occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations or the financial position that would have resulted had the merger been completed as of or at the beginning of the applicable periods presented, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results of operations or the financial position for any other interim or full-year period.
The preliminary pro forma adjustments include purchase price adjustments based on the total estimated consideration of $1.9 billion, including the value of outstanding stock options, which will be paid with the issuance of approximately 43.8 million shares of People's United Financial common stock and approximately $1.0 billion in cash consideration. The number of shares of People's United Financial common stock expected to be issued assumes that the average of the closing sales prices of People's United Financial common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the five trading days ending the day before the completion of the merger was $18.71, which was the closing sales price of People's United Financial common stock on June 26, 2007, the last trading day before announcement of the merger. The value of the merger consideration to be received in
 
exchange for one share of Chittenden common stock would have been approximately $36.77 and each share of Chittenden common stock not exchanged for that amount in cash consideration would have been exchanged for 1.9652 shares of People's United Financial common stock. The actual number of shares of People's United Financial common stock that Chittenden stockholders who receive stock in the merger will receive may differ depending on the average of the closing sale prices for People's United Financial common stock during the five trading days ending the day before completion of the merger. Upon completion of the merger, outstanding options of Chittenden will be exchanged for cash.
Note 2  Preliminary Pro Forma Adjustments
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes the preliminary pro forma balance sheet as of June 30, 2007, assuming the merger with Chittenden was completed on that date. The preliminary pro forma income statements for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2006 were prepared assuming the merger was completed on January 1, 2006.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the issuance of approximately 43.8 million shares of People's United Financial common stock and approximately $1.0 billion in cash consideration. The value of the common stock expected to be issued was based on the exchange ratio noted above in Note 1  Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation.
Pro forma purchase accounting adjustments reflect the proposed merger of Chittenden and Community Bank, assuming this merger was completed prior to the merger of People's United Financial and Chittenden.
A reconciliation of the preliminary consideration paid by People's United Financial over Chittenden's net assets acquired ("goodwill") is as follows:
 
 
The excess of the total purchase price over the adjusted net assets acquired was allocated to assets and liabilities as follows:
 
 
Note 3  Merger Related Costs
Certain merger-related costs are estimated at $9 million. These estimated merger-related costs will be incurred by People's United Financial and expensed as incurred. An estimate of integration costs has not yet been determined, given the preliminary stages of integration discussions. As such, these costs have not been included in the preliminary pro-forma condensed combined balance sheet or income statements.
Note 4  Core Deposit Intangibles
The purchase accounting adjustments include the establishment of core deposit intangibles of $165.6 million as of June 30, 2007. The core deposit intangibles were estimated based on Chittenden's total deposits at June 30, 2007 and recent industry specific transactions. A final analysis and valuation of the core deposit intangibles will be performed with the assistance of an independent third party upon completion of the merger. The amortization of the core deposit intangibles resulting from the merger in the pro forma statements of income for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2006 was assumed to be over a 10-year period using an accelerated amortization method.
 
The following table summarizes the amortization of the preliminary core deposit intangibles at an effective annual tax rate of 35.0%.
 
 


