FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20071017160949.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K/A, as originally filed on April 16, 2007, is being filed solely to report the completion of our second-step conversion under Item 2.01 of Form 8-K as opposed to furnishing such information under Item 7.01.
Information regarding the results of the syndicated offering portion of the second-step conversion continues to be furnished under Item 7.01.
Except as described above, no other changes have been made to the Current Report on Form 8-K. This Amendment No. 1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K does not otherwise attempt to update the information set forth in the original filing of the Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
On April 16, 2007, People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the completion of its conversion to a fully publicly-owned stock form holding company and related public offering. As a result of the conversion, the Company became the owner of all issued and outstanding shares of the common stock of People's Bank.
A copy of that press release is being filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
On April 11, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing that it completed the syndicated offering portion of its second-step conversion. The Company announced that orders for a total of 108,241,531 shares at a purchase price of $20.00 per share were accepted in the syndicated offering, in addition to orders for 63,984,719 shares already accepted in the subscription offering portion of its second-step conversion, for a total of 172,226,250 shares to be sold in the subscription offering and syndicated offering combined. The Company also announced that People's Bank had received the stockholder and depositor approvals necessary to approve the conversion.
A copy of that press release is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 7.01 (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
April 11, 2007
People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company"), the proposed holding company for People's Bank (NASDAQ: PBCT), announced today that, as a result of the syndicated offering and the recently completed subscription offering, the Company expects to sell 172,226,250 shares of common stock at $20.00 per share, for total offering proceeds of $3.44 billion. The offerings are expected to close and trading in Company shares is expected to begin on Monday, April 16, 2007.
BRIDGEPORT, CONNECTICUT 
Orders for a total of 108,241,531 shares at a purchase price of $20.00 per share have been accepted in the syndicated offering, for which Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated acted as global coordinator and sole book-running manager, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Ryan Beck & Co., Inc. acted as joint lead managers and Sandler O'Neill & Partners, L.P. acted as co-manager. As previously announced, the Company received orders for 63,984,719 shares in the subscription offering portion of its second-step conversion, for which Ryan Beck & Co., Inc. acted as selling agent.
Concurrent with the completion of the offering, shares of People's Bank common stock owned by the public will be exchanged for shares of the Company's common stock so that People's Bank existing shareholders will own approximately the same percentage of the Company's common stock as they owned of People's Bank's common stock immediately prior to the conversion. As a result, People's Bank stockholders will receive 2.1000 shares of the Company's common stock for each share of People's Bank common stock they hold immediately prior to completion of the transaction. Cash in lieu of fractional shares will be paid at a rate of $20.00 per share. As a result of the offering, the exchange, and the contribution to the charitable foundation, the Company will have approximately 300,824,563 shares outstanding after giving effect to the transaction.
The Company has received the stockholder and depositor approvals necessary to complete the conversion. The completion of the conversion remains subject to final approval from the Office of Thrift Supervision, including approval of a final appraisal.
The transaction is scheduled to close on April 16, 2007, at which time People's Mutual Holdings will cease to exist and the Company will become fully public. The shares of common stock sold in the offering and issued in the exchange are expected to begin trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on April 16, 2007 under the symbol "PBCTD" for a period of 20 trading days after completion of the offering, and under the symbol "PBCT" thereafter. Stock certificates for shares purchased in the subscription offering are expected to be mailed to subscribers on or about April 17, 2007. People's Bank stockholders holding shares in street name or in book-entry form will receive shares of the Company within their accounts. People's Bank stockholders holding shares in certificated form will receive their shares after returning their stock certificates and a properly completed letter of transmittal to the Company's transfer agent.
This release may contain certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and may be identified by the use of such words as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "should," "planned," "estimated," and "potential." Examples of forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, estimates with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of People's United Financial and People's Bank that are subject to various factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from these estimates. These factors include, but are not limited to, general economic and market conditions, legislative and regulatory conditions, changes in interest rates that affect People's Bank's interest rate spread, changes in deposit flows, loan demand or real estate values and other economic, governmental, competitive, regulatory and technological factors that may affect People's United Financial's and People's Bank's operations.
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. This press release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy common stock. The offer will be made only by means of the written prospectus forming part of the registration statement.
The shares of common stock are not savings accounts or savings deposits, may lose value and are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
APRIL 16, 2007
People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") (NASDAQ: PBCTD), the holding company for People's Bank, announced today that it has completed the conversion from the mutual holding company structure to a fully publicly-owned stock form holding company and related public offering. The Company sold a total of 172,226,250 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $20.00 per share, of which 63,984,719 shares were sold in a subscription offering for which Ryan Beck & Co., Inc. acted as selling agent and 108,241,531 shares were sold in a syndicated offering for which Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated acted as global coordinator and sole book-running manager, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Ryan Beck & Co., Inc. acted as joint lead managers and Sandler O'Neill & Partners, L.P. acted as co-manager. People's Bank is now 100% owned by the Company and the Company is 100% owned by public stockholders.
BRIDGEPORT, CONNECTICUT
Concurrent with the completion of the offering, shares of People's Bank common stock owned by public stockholders were exchanged for 2.1000 shares of the Company's common stock. Cash in lieu of fractional shares will be paid at a rate of $20.00 per share. The Company also issued 2,000,000 shares of common stock and contributed $20.0 million in cash from the offering proceeds to The People's Community Foundation, a new charitable foundation that the Company established for the benefit of the communities in which People's Bank operates. As a result of the offering, the exchange, and the contribution to the charitable foundation, the Company will have approximately 300,824,563 shares outstanding after giving effect to the transaction.
The shares of common stock sold in the offering and issued in the exchange will begin trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on April 16, 2007 under the symbol "PBCTD." The shares will trade under that symbol for a period of 20 trading days and under the symbol "PBCT" thereafter. Stock certificates for shares purchased in the subscription offering are expected to be mailed to subscribers on or about April 17, 2007. People's Bank stockholders holding shares in street name or in book-entry form will receive shares of the Company within their accounts. People's Bank stockholders holding shares in certificated form will receive their shares after returning their stock certificates with a properly completed letter of transmittal to the Company's transfer agent.
Thacher Proffitt & Wood , Washington, D.C., served as special counsel to the Company and People's Bank for the conversion and offering. Cleary Gottlieb Steen Hamilton LLP, New York, NY, served as special counsel to Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Ryan Beck & Co., Inc., Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Sandler O'Neill & Partners, L.P. for the offering. RP Financial, LC., Arlington, VA served as independent appraiser for the conversion and offering.
LLP
This release may contain certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and may be identified by the use of such words as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "should," "planned," "estimated," and "potential." Examples of forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, estimates with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of People's United Financial and People's Bank that are subject to various factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from these estimates. These factors include, but are not limited to, general economic and market conditions, legislative and regulatory conditions, changes in interest rates that affect People's Bank's interest rate spread, changes in deposit flows, loan demand or real estate values and other economic, governmental, competitive, regulatory and technological factors that may affect People's United Financial's and People's Bank's operations.


