FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20080317173056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 2, 2008, People's United Financial, Inc. ("People's United") filed a Form 8-K reporting the closing of its acquisition of Chittenden Corporation ("Chittenden") on January 1, 2008. In that filing, People's United indicated that it would amend the Form 8-K at a later date to include the financial information required by Item 9.01. This amendment to the Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2008 is being filed to provide such financial information, which is attached as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3.
Except as described above, no other changes have been made to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2008.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
The following financial statements of Chittenden, including all notes thereto and management's statement of responsibility, are hereby incorporated by reference to Part II, Item 8 and Item 9A, respectively, of Chittenden's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2007:
 
 
 
 
All other financial statements required by this Item 9.01 appear as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
The pro forma financial information required by this item appears as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
(d) The following Exhibits are filed herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Forms S-8 (No. 333-140865 and No. 333-142119) of People's United Financial, Inc. of our report dated February 26, 2007 relating to the financial statements, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Chittenden Corporation, which is included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 of Chittenden Corporation. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 31, 2008 relating to the financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007 of Chittenden Corporation, which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Montpelier, VT
March 17, 2008

ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 S S A P
UMMARY
OF
IGNIFICANT
CCOUNTING
OLICIES
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Chittenden Corporation (the "Company") and its subsidiaries: Chittenden Trust Company (CTC), and its subsidiaries Chittenden Insurance Group, LLC (CIG), Chittenden Securities, LLC (CSC) and Chittenden Commercial Finance (CCF); The Bank of Western Massachusetts (BWM); Flagship Bank and Trust Company (FBT); Maine Bank & Trust (MBT); and Ocean National Bank (ONB). (CTC, BWM, FBT, MBT, and ONB are collectively referred to as the "Banks.") All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year balances to conform to the current year presentation.
Nature of Operations
The Banks' primary business is providing loans, deposits, and other banking services to commercial, individual, and public sector customers. Chittenden Mortgage Services is a mortgage banking operation with offices in Brattleboro, Vermont. CIG is an independent insurance agency with offices in Vermont, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. CSC is a registered broker/dealer providing brokerage services to its customers through banking locations in Vermont, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine. CCF's commercial finance operations are based in Montreal, Quebec.
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant changes in the near term relate to the determination of the allowance for credit losses, income tax expense, recognition of interest income on loans, and the recognition of restructuring charges.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, amounts due from banks, interest-bearing deposits and certain money market fund investments. Cash equivalents are accounted for at cost, which approximates fair value.
Investments
Investments in debt securities may be classified as held for investment and measured at amortized cost only if the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold such securities to maturity. Investments in debt securities that are not classified as held for investment and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values are classified as either trading securities or securities available for sale. Trading securities are investments purchased and held principally for the purpose of selling in the near term; securities available for sale are investments not classified as trading or held for investment. All of the Company's securities are classified as available for sale.
Securities transferred between categories are accounted for at market value. Unrealized holding gains and losses on trading securities are included in earnings; unrealized holding gains and losses on securities available for sale or on securities transferred into the available for sale category from the held for investment category are
 
 
reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity, net of applicable income taxes. Unrealized losses that are considered other than temporary in nature are recognized in earnings. The Company uses the specific identification method to determine the cost basis in the recognition of gains and losses on the sales of securities as well as the calculation of unrealized gains and losses.
Loans
Loans are stated at the amount of unpaid principal, net of unearned discounts and unearned loan origination fees. Such fees and discounts are accreted using the effective-interest method. Interest on loans is included in income as earned based upon interest rates applied to unpaid principal. Interest is not accrued on loans 90 days or more past due unless they are adequately secured and in the process of collection or on other loans when management believes collection is doubtful. All loans considered impaired (except troubled debt restructurings), as defined in the following paragraph, are nonaccruing. Interest on nonaccruing loans is recognized as payments are received when the ultimate collectibility of interest is no longer considered doubtful. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, all unpaid interest previously accrued is reversed against current-period interest income.
A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that a creditor will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Impaired loans are measured based on the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate. In the case of collateral dependent loans, impairment may be measured based on the fair value of the collateral. When the measure of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan, the impairment is recorded through a valuation allowance.
Allowance for Loan Losses
The allowance for loan losses is based on management's estimate of the amount required to reflect the probable inherent losses in the loan portfolio, based on circumstances and conditions known at each reporting date. There are inherent uncertainties with respect to the collectibility of the Banks' loans. Because of these inherent uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that actual losses experienced in the near term may differ from the amounts reflected in these consolidated financial statements.
Adequacy of the allowance is determined using a consistent, systematic methodology, which analyzes the size and risk of the loan portfolio. In addition to evaluating the collectibility of specific loans when determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, management also takes into consideration other factors such as changes in the mix and volume of the loan portfolio, historic loss experience, the amount of delinquencies and loans adversely classified, and economic trends. An allocation process whereby specific loss allocations are made against certain adversely classified loans, and general loss allocations are made against segments of the loan portfolio, which have similar attributes together, assesses the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses.
Provisions charged against current earnings increase the allowance for loan losses. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the collectibility of the loan principal is doubtful. Recoveries on loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance. While management uses available information to assess probable losses on loans, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. In addition, various regulatory agencies periodically review the Company's allowance for loan losses as an integral part of their examination process. Such agencies may require the Company to recognize additions to the allowance based on judgments different from those of management.
Credit quality of the commercial portfolios is quantified by a corporate credit rating system designed to parallel regulatory criteria and categories of loan risk. Individual loan officers monitor their loans to ensure appropriate rating assignments are made on a timely basis. Risk ratings and quality of both commercial and
 
 
consumer credit portfolios are also assessed on a regular basis by an independent Credit Review Department. Credit Review personnel conduct ongoing portfolio trend analyses and individual credit reviews to evaluate loan risk and compliance with corporate lending policies. Results and recommendations from this process provide senior management and the Board of Directors with independent information on the loan portfolio condition. Consumer and residential real estate loan quality is evaluated on the basis of delinquency data and other credit data available due to the large number of such loans and the relatively small size of individual credits.
Key elements of the above estimates, including assumptions used in developing independent appraisals, are dependent on the economic conditions prevailing at the time such estimates are made. Accordingly, uncertainty exists as to the final outcome of certain valuation judgments as a result of changes in economic conditions in the Banks' lending areas.
Loan Origination and Commitment Fees
Loan origination and commitment fees, and certain loan origination costs, are deferred and amortized over the contractual term of the related loans as yield adjustments using primarily the level-yield method. When loans are sold or paid off, the unamortized net fees and costs are recognized in income. Net deferred loan fees amounted to $6,849,000 and $6,720,000 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Loans Held for Sale / Gains and Losses on Sales of Mortgage Loans
Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or market value. Gains and losses on sales of mortgage loans are recognized at the time of the sale and are generally comprised of 1) an amount representing a mortgage servicing right (see below) and 2) a cash gain or loss based on the sale of the loan to a third party. The price paid by a willing third party is influenced by the contractual interest rate charged to the borrower and the prevailing market rate for similar loans. The Company enters into forward sale contracts on substantially all loan commitments at the time that the customer locks their contractual interest rate, so that the exposure due to interest rate changes on the cash gain / loss recognized by the Company is minimal.
Mortgage Servicing Rights
Servicing assets are recognized when rights are acquired through purchase or sale of residential mortgage loans. Capitalized servicing rights are amortized against mortgage servicing income in proportion to, and over the period of, the estimated future net servicing income of the underlying mortgage loans. Servicing assets are evaluated regularly for impairment based upon the fair value of the servicing rights as compared to their amortized cost. Fair value is determined using prices for similar assets with similar characteristics, when available, or based upon discounted cash flows using market-based assumptions.
Premises and Equipment
Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the premises and equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the terms of the respective leases or the estimated useful lives of the improvements. Expenditures for maintenance, repairs, and renewals of minor items are charged to expense as incurred.
Other Real Estate Owned
Collateral acquired through foreclosure ("Other Real Estate Owned" or "OREO") is recorded at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or the fair value of the property, less estimated costs to sell, at the time of acquisition. Net operating income or expense related to OREO is included in noninterest expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.
 
 
Identified Intangible Assets & Goodwill
Intangible assets include the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired (goodwill) in various acquisitions as well as core deposit intangibles (CDI) and customer list intangibles. Core deposit intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over 10 years. The straight-line basis is used because the Company has not experienced significant run off of core deposits in its past acquisitions. The customer list intangibles are also amortized straight-line over 10 years. The Company periodically evaluates intangible assets for impairment on the basis of whether these assets are fully recoverable from projected, undiscounted net cash flows of the related acquired segment or customer base.
Income Taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for the temporary differences between the accounting basis and the tax basis of the Company's assets and liabilities at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the amounts related to such temporary differences are realized or settled.
Reserve for Unfunded Commitments
The reserve for unfunded commitments is based on management's estimate of the amount required to reflect the probable inherent losses on outstanding letters of credit, merchant processing activity and unused loan credit lines. Adequacy of the reserve is determined using a consistent, systematic methodology, similar to the one, which analyzes the allowance for loan losses. Additionally, management must also estimate the likelihood that these commitments would be funded and become loans. This is done by evaluating the historical utilization of each type of unfunded commitment and estimating the likelihood that the current utilization rates on lines available at the balance sheet date could increase in the future.
Earnings Per Share
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding adjusted for the incremental shares attributed to outstanding common stock equivalents, using the treasury stock method. Common stock equivalents include options granted under the Company's stock plans and shares to be issued under the Company's Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.
Investment Management and Trust
Assets under administration of approximately $9.0 billion and $9.1 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, held by the Banks in a fiduciary or agency capacity for customers, are not included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Investment management and trust income is recorded on the cash basis (which approximates the accrual method) in accordance with industry practice.
Credit Card Income
Credit card income includes interchange income from business credit cards issued by the Company, and merchant discount income. Merchant discount income consists of the fees charged on credit card receipts submitted by the Company's commercial customers. Credit card income is presented net of credit card expense, which includes fees paid by the Company to credit card issuers and third-party processors. Such amounts are recognized on the accrual basis, and are presented in noninterest income in the consolidated statements of income.
 
 
Insurance Commissions
Insurance commission income is recognized when billed to the customer, net of commissions paid to the producing agent. In addition, CIG may receive additional performance commissions based on achieving specific sales goals and loss experience targets.
Stock-Based Compensation
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS 123R) which amends SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". The Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective method. The modified retrospective method requires that compensation cost be recognized beginning with the effective date 1) based on the requirements of SFAS 123R for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and 2) based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123R. The modified retrospective method also requires companies to adjust prior year financials based on the amounts previously reported under the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosures for all prior periods in which SFAS 123 was effective.
Accounting for Derivatives
The Company accounts and reports for derivative instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting 149, ("SFAS 149". SFAS 149 amends Statement 133 for decisions made (1) as part of the Derivatives Implementation Group, (2) in connection with other Board projects dealing with financial instruments, and (3) in connection with implementation issues raised in relation to the application of the definition of a derivative. Statements 133 and 149 require companies to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and to measure those instruments at fair value.
Amendment of Statement of 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
)
Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective, and that is designated and qualifies, as a fair value hedge, along with changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk (including losses or gains on firm commitments), are recorded in noninterest income. If a derivative has ceased to be highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
On May 21, 2002, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Chittenden Capital Trust I (the "Trust"), issued $125 million of 8% trust preferred securities ("TPS") to the public and invested the proceeds from this offering in an equivalent amount of junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company. The TPS pay interest quarterly, are mandatorily redeemable on July 1, 2032 and may be redeemed by the Trust at par any time on or after July 1, 2007. Concurrent with the issuance of these securities, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements with two counterparties, in which the Company receives 8% fixed on the notional amount of $125 million, while paying the counterparties a variable rate based on the three month LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), plus approximately 122 basis points. The Company's risk management objective for undertaking the hedge is to hedge its exposure to changes in the risk free (or benchmark) rate, specifically LIBOR. The Company designated the swap transactions as hedging the exposure in changes in the fair value of its obligation to pay 8% fixed; therefore the hedge is considered a fair value hedge. The Company assesses effectiveness of the hedge on an ongoing basis utilizing the dollar offset method effectiveness test. In August 2006, the Company terminated the interest rate swap agreements with both counterparties and settled with a final payment of interest and termination fees of $372,000.
 
 
Restructuring Charges
The Company has adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 146 Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities ("SFAS 146"), which contains specific guidance regarding the types of, and circumstances under which, certain expenses related to restructuring activities can be accrued. In general, SFAS 146 requires that the Company have a detailed plan in place, which has been communicated to employees affected. Significant management judgment is required in estimating the amount of expense that is appropriate to recognize in relation to these plans.
Accounting Policies Adopted in the Current Period
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), (SFAS 123R) which amends SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". The Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective method. The modified retrospective method requires that compensation cost be recognized beginning with the effective date 1) based on the requirements of SFAS 123R for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and 2) based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123R. The modified retrospective method also requires companies to adjust prior year financials based on the amounts previously reported under the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosures for all prior periods in which SFAS 123 was effective. See Note 9 for a more detailed description of the Company's adoption of SFAS 123R.
Share-Based Payment
Effective November 15, 2006, the Company adopted Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 ("SAB 108"). SAB 108 provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a potential current year misstatement. Prior to SAB 108, companies might evaluate the materiality of financial-statement misstatements using either the income statement or balance sheet approach, with the income statement approach focusing on new misstatements added in the current year, and the balance sheet approach focusing on the cumulative amount of misstatements present in a company's balance sheet. Misstatements that would be material under one approach could be viewed as immaterial under another approach, and not be corrected. SAB 108 now requires that companies view financial statement misstatements as material if they are material according to either the income statement or balance sheet approach. The adoption of SAB 108 had no impact on the reported results of operations or financial conditions.
Effective December 15, 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 158 ("SFAS 158"), which amends SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 to require recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the balance sheet. Under SFAS 158, gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and any remaining transition amounts under SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 that have not yet been recognized through net periodic benefit cost will be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax effects, until they are amortized as a component of net periodic cost. The measurement datethe date at which the benefit obligation and plan assets are measuredis required to be the company's fiscal year end. SFAS 158 was effective for publicly held companies for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006, except for the measurement date provisions, which are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. See Note 10 for a more detailed description of the Company's adoption of SFAS 158.
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
 
 
Note 2 I A G
NTANGIBLE
SSETS
AND
OODWILL
Identified Intangible Assets
 
 
There were no changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Note 3 I
NVESTMENTS
Investment securities at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:
 
 
 
The following table presents information related to sales of debt securities in each of the years ended December 31:
 
The market value of securities pledged to secure U.S. Treasury borrowings, public deposits, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, and for other purposes required by law, amounted to $645 million and $519 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The following table shows the maturity distribution of the amortized cost of the Company's investment securities at December 31, 2006, with comparative totals for 2005. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations:
 
 
 
 
The following table shows the maturity distribution of the fair value of the Company's investment securities at December 31, 2006, with comparative totals for 2005. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations:
 
 
The following table is a summary of those investment securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than and greater than twelve months as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively:
 
 
 
 
The unrealized losses on the Company's investments in U.S. Treasury securities and direct obligations of U.S. government agencies were caused by interest rate increases. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of their amortized cost, which may be at maturity, and does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2006.
U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. government agency obligations.
The unrealized losses on the Company's investment in federal agency mortgage-backed securities were caused by interest rate increases. The decline in market value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of their amortized cost, which may be at maturity, and does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2006.
Mortgage-backed securities.
The Company's unrealized loss on investments in corporate bonds and notes was caused by a general increase in market interest rates. Included are 31 issuers with a carrying value of $286million and a fair value of $281 million. These bonds have at least an S&P rating of A- and a Moody's rating of A3. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of their amortized cost, which may be at maturity, and does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2006.
Corporate bonds and notes.
Note 4 L
OANS
The Company's lending activities are conducted primarily in Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Maine, with additional activity relating to nearby market areas in New York, Connecticut and Quebec. The Banks make single-family and multi-family residential loans, commercial real estate loans, commercial & industrial loans, and a variety of consumer loans and municipal loans. In addition, the Banks make loans for the construction of residential homes, multi-family and commercial properties, and for land development.
 
 
Major classifications of loans at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:
 
Changes in the allowance for loan losses are summarized as follows:
 
The principal amount of loans on nonaccrual status was $20,093,800 and $15,819,400 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At the end of 2006 and 2005, the Company had no loans whose terms had been substantially modified in troubled debt restructurings.
The amount of interest which was not earned but which would have been earned had nonaccrual loans performed in accordance with their original terms and conditions were as follows:
 
 
 
Information regarding loans that were considered to be impaired under SFAS 114 is as follows:
 
Residential mortgage loans serviced for others, which are not reflected in the consolidated balance sheets, totaled approximately $2.037 billion and $2.098 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. No recourse provisions exist in connection with such servicing.
The following table is a summary of activity for mortgage servicing rights purchased and originated for the three years ended December 31, 2006:
 
SFAS 140 requires enterprises to measure the impairment of servicing assets based on the difference between the carrying amount of the servicing rights and their current fair value. Fair value is measured as the discounted cash flow of future servicing income expected to be received based upon market conditions at the time the estimate is made. Significant assumptions made by management at December 31, 2006 include the weighted average discount rate (9.8%), weighted average prepayment speed (226 PSA/13.56 CPR), weighted average servicing fee (25.60 basis points) and net cost to service loans ($17/loan). Based upon these assumptions, the Company calculated the fair value of its servicing rights to be $19.382 million at December 31, 2006.
The Company stratifies its servicing portfolio based upon interest rate (in increments of 50 basis points) and original loan term (primarily 15 and 30 year). The estimated market value of capitalized servicing rights may vary significantly in subsequent periods primarily due to changing market interest rates, and their effect on prepayment speeds, and discount rates. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the impairment valuation allowance was $622,000 and $639,000, respectively.
 
 
The estimated sensitivity of the current fair value of the mortgage servicing rights portfolio to changes in interest rates at December 31, 2006, was as follows:
 
The sensitivities in the table above are hypothetical and should be used with caution. The effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the mortgage servicing right is calculated independently without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. Because the amount recognized on the Company's balance sheet is at the lower of cost or market (fair value), changes in the calculated fair value of mortgage servicing rights will not necessarily translate to a corresponding change in the amount shown on the balance sheet.
Note 5 P E
REMISES
AND
QUIPMENT
Premises and equipment at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are summarized as follows:
 
Total depreciation expense amounted to approximately $7,427,000, $8,066,000 and $7,977,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
The Company is obligated under various noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment expiring in various years through 2021. Total lease expense, net of income from subleases, amounted to approximately $4,480,000, $4,518,000 and $4,560,000 in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.
 
 
Future minimum rental commitments for noncancelable operating leases on premises and equipment with initial or remaining terms of one year or more at December 31, 2006 are as follows:
 
Note 6 B
ORROWINGS
Borrowings at December 31, 2006 and 2005 consisted of the following:
 
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized by U.S. Treasury and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities and corporate notes or bonds. These assets had a carrying value and a market value of $82,254,000 and $78,369,000, respectively, at December 31, 2006, and $63,802,000 and $61,418,000, respectively, at December 31, 2005. The borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston are secured by residential mortgage loans held in the Company's loan portfolio.
The following information relates to securities sold under agreements to repurchase:
 
 
 
The following information relates to FHLB borrowings:
 
On May 21, 2002, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Chittenden Capital Trust I (the "Trust"), issued $125 million of 8% trust preferred securities ("TPS") to the public and invested the proceeds from this offering in an equivalent amount of junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company. These debentures are the sole asset of the trust subsidiary. The proceeds from the offering, which was net of $4.5 million of issuance costs, were used as the cash consideration in the Granite Bank acquisition. The TPS pay interest quarterly, are mandatorily redeemable on July 1, 2032 and may be redeemed by the Trust at par any time on or after July 1, 2007. The Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the TPS issued by the Trust.
Concurrent with the issuance of these securities, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements with two counterparties, in which the Company received 8% fixed on the notional amount of $125 million, while paying the counterparties a variable rate based on the three month LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), plus approximately 122 basis points. In August 2006, the Company terminated the interest rate swap agreements with both counterparties and settled with a final payment of interest and termination fees of $372,000.
The following information relates to TPS borrowings:
 
Note 7 I T
NCOME
AXES
Income tax expense consists of the following:
 
 
 
Current income taxes payable, included in other liabilities, was $3,813,000 at December 31, 2006, compared to a current income taxes receivable, included in other assets of $2,285,000 at December 31, 2005.
The following is a reconciliation of the provision for Federal income taxes, calculated at the statutory rate, to the recorded income tax expense:
 
The components of the net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:
 
Note 8 S' E
TOCKHOLDERS
QUITY
Treasury Stock
During 2006, the Company repurchased a total of 1.8 million shares of common stock. On October 20, 2005, the Company announced that the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 1,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock in negotiated transactions or open market purchases. Chittenden repurchased all of those shares by June 30, 2006. On July 19, 2006 the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 1,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The Company repurchased 800,000 of this second authorization during 2006.
 
 
Dividends
Dividends paid by the Banks are the primary source of funds available to the Company for payment of dividends to its stockholders and for other corporate needs. Applicable federal and state statutes, regulations, and guidelines impose restrictions on the amount of dividends that may be declared by the Banks. The Company paid dividends to stockholders' of $36.2 million, $33.4 million and $31.9 million, which represented $0.78, $0.72, and $0.70 per share during 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.
Earnings Per Share
The following table summarizes the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share:
 
The following table summarizes options that could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future which were not included in the computation of the common stock equivalents because to do so would have been antidilutive:
 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all other non-owner changes in equity. The Company has chosen to display comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity. The following table summarizes reclassification detail for other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31:
 
 
 
Note 9 S P
TOCK
LANS
The Company has two stock option plans: The Stock Incentive Plan, and the Directors' Omnibus Long-term Incentive Plan. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective method to account for share-based payments to employees and the Company's Board of Directors. In accordance with the modified retrospective method, the Company has adjusted previously reported results to reflect the effect of expensing stock options granted during those periods. The cumulative adjustment associated with the adoption of SFAS 123R increased the Company's deferred tax asset $4.2 million, surplus $19.8 million and decreased retained earnings $15.6 million as of the quarter ended March 31, 2006.
Under the plans there are various types of stock incentives, including, but not limited to options; restricted stock which vests after a specified period of time; unrestricted stock awards; and performance awards. The primary type of share-based payment utilized by the Company is stock options. Stock options are awards which allow the employee to purchase shares of the Company's stock at a fixed price. In accordance with Chittenden's Stock Incentive Plan, stock options are granted at an exercise price equal to the Company stock price at the date of grant. Prior to 2006, the stock options issued by the Company generally vested immediately at the time of issuance. In 2006, the Company's Board of Directors changed this practice and vested the new option grants over one year. There were a total of 7,688,324 shares at December 31, 2006 and 2005 available to be issued under the plans and 6,163,698 and 5,636,131 had been issued at each of these dates.
The Company has a Performance Share Program that governs Performance Share Awards under the Stock Incentive Plan. Performance awards consist of shares of the Company's common stock to be issued at the conclusion of the three-year performance cycle provided that performance goals are met as measured by one or more of the following: corporate profitability, EPS, ROE and/or other measures as deemed relevant by the Executive Committee. In 2006 and 2005, targets of 45,500 and 41,460 Performance Shares were set that could be earned at the end of the three-year performance cycle if the performance measures are attained. The plan is a leveraged plan meaning that if the Company is ranked in the 100
th
percentile versus its comparison group, up to 150% of the targeted amount of shares could be earned. In order to earn the full target award of 45,500, the Company would need to be ranked in the 75
th
percentile. If the Company is not ranked in at least the 25
th
percentile, no shares will be awarded. Notwithstanding these guidelines, the Board of Directors has the authority to reduce, but not increase, these awards if they deem it to be appropriate in the circumstances. Salary expenses related to the performance shares were $855,000 in 2006.
 
 
The following tables summarize information regarding the Company's stock option plans:
 
O O E
PTIONS
UTSTANDING
AND
XERCISABLE
December 31, 2006
 
The Company estimates the fair value of stock option grants using the Black-Scholes valuation model and the key input assumptions are: expected volatility, expected term of option, risk-free interest rate and dividend yield. Expected volatility estimates are developed by the Company based on historical volatility of the Company's stock. The Company uses historical data to estimate the expected term of the options. The risk-free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield in effect at the grant date. The dividend yield represents the expected dividends on the Company stock. The Company believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are consistent with SFAS 123R. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict the actual future value ultimately realized by employees who receive share-based awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of original estimates of fair value made by the Company under SFAS 123R.
 
 
The following table presents the key input assumptions for the Black-Scholes valuation model for grants in 2006, 2005 and 2004:
 
The total intrinsic value (market value on date of exercise less grant price) of options exercised during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, was $1.9 million, $3.1 million, and $4.6 million, respectively. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 was approximately $6.8 million, $9.3 million and $9.7 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized as a result of the stock option exercises was $619,000 in 2006 compared with $1.1 million in 2005 and $1.6 million in 2004.
The total compensation costs related to options were $3.2 million, $2.1 million and $3.8 million during 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. These amounts are included in salary expense in the accompanying consolidated Statements of Income.
Note 10 E B
MPLOYEE
ENEFITS
Pension Plan
The Company sponsors a qualified defined benefit pension plan that covers substantially all of its employees who meet minimum age and service requirements.
In 2005, the Board of Directors approved changes to the Company's retirement program. As a result, on December 31, 2005, benefits accrued under the defined benefit Pension Account Plan were frozen based on participants' current service and pay levels. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company's annual contribution to the Incentive Savings and Profit Sharing Plan (401(k) Plan) was enhanced for all eligible employees.
The changes in the benefit obligation for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:
 
 
 
Weighted-average assumptions used in determining pension obligations for the years ended December 31:
 
The changes in the plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:
 
The asset allocation for the Company's pension plan at December 31, 2005 and 2006, and the target asset allocation for 2007, by asset category are as follows:
 
Chittenden uses a measurement date of September 30 for its pension plan.
The Company's investment policy seeks to achieve long-term capital growth to enable the plan to meet its future benefit obligations to participants and to maintain liquidity sufficient to cover plan distributions without exposing the Company to undue investment risk. The Retirement Plan Committee is responsible for overseeing the investment performance of the plan, including evaluating the performance of the investment managers. The Committee is also responsible for periodically reviewing the plan's investment objectives and guidelines to ensure they remain appropriate.
Funded status, end of year:
 
 
 
Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position:
 
Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (pretax):
 
At the end of 2006 and 2005, the projected benefit obligation, the accumulated benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets for the pension plan with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets and for the pension plan with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets were as follows:
 
Benefit disbursements and employer contributions for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, and expected benefit disbursements and contributions for 2007 are as follows:
 
Expected Cash Flows
Due to recent contributions made in excess of the minimum required amounts, the Company does not anticipate a required contribution during 2007.
 
 
 
Net pension expense components included in employee benefits in the consolidated statements of income are as follows:
 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost:
 
 
The estimated amounts that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in 2007 are as follows:
 
Based on a representative allocation within the target asset allocation described above, management expects an annual long-term return for its portfolio of 7.25%. In formulating this assumed long-term rate of return, the Company considered historical returns by asset category and expectations for future returns by asset category based, in part, on simulated capital market performance over the next 15 years. Resulting expected returns by asset category have been weighted based on the target asset allocation to produce the weighted average assumption of 7.25%.
Amounts resulting from changes in actuarial assumptions used to measure the Company's benefit obligations are not recognized as they occur, but are amortized systematically over subsequent periods.
 
 
CTC has supplemental pension arrangements with certain retired employees. The liability, included in accrued expenses and other liabilities, related to such arrangements was $1,149,000 and $1,297,000 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Company has established a supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP) for members of the executive management group. This unfunded plan is intended to cover only those benefits excluded from coverage under the Company's qualified defined benefit pension plan as a result of IRS regulations. The design elements of this SERP mirror those of the Company's qualified plan. In addition to the SERP, the Company has a separate arrangement with its Chief Executive Officer under which contributions are accrued based upon the Company's return on equity (ROE). A ROE of 10% is the minimum threshold at which any contribution will be made. Benefits are payable upon attaining the age of 55, except in the event of death or disability. The liability related to the CEOs SERP, included in accrued expenses and other liabilities was $3,675,000 and $3,258,000 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Expenses related to this plan were $417,385, $265,000 and $377,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Other Benefit Plans
The Company has an incentive savings and profit sharing plan to provide eligible employees with a means to invest a portion of their earnings for retirement. Eligible employees of the Company may contribute, by salary reductions, up to 6% of their compensation as a basic employee contribution and may contribute up to an additional 20% of their compensation as a supplemental employee contribution. Investment in the Company's common stock is one of the investment options available to employees; however, there are no restrictions on transfers or required holding periods.
During the three year period ended December 31, 2006, the Company made incentive savings contributions in amounts equal to 35% of each employee's basic contribution, which was charged to benefits expense.
 
The Company may also make an additional matching contribution (profit-sharing) to the incentive savings and profit sharing plan based on the extent to which the annual corporate profitability goals established by the Board of Directors are met. Benefits expense related to the additional matching contribution totaled:
 
The following table reflects the shares of the Company's common stock that were purchased through the incentive savings and profit sharing plan, during each of the last three years:
 
 
 
The Company has established a supplemental executive savings plan. This plan is intended to cover only those benefits excluded from coverage under the Corporation's qualified incentive savings and profit sharing plan as a result of IRS regulations. Any contributions under this supplemental plan, when combined with the regular pre-tax contributions shall not exceed 16% of the individual's earnings. Benefit expense related to this plan was $87,000, $110,000 and $12,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The Company also has an Executive Management Incentive Compensation Plan. Executives at defined levels of responsibility are eligible to participate in the plan. Incentive award payments are determined on the basis of corporate and group profitability, relative performance within a defined peer group and individual performance. Awards may range from zero to 100% of annual compensation. Expenses for this plan totaled $2,058,000, $2,235,000 and $715,000 in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.
The Company has a Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan. Under the plan, Directors may defer fees and retainers that would otherwise be payable currently. Deferrals may be made to an uninsured interest bearing account or to an account recorded in equivalents of the Company's common stock. Directors are required to defer 50% of their compensation (and may defer as much as 100%) in the equivalent of the Company's common stock. Expenses for this plan totaled $1,365,000, $1,256,000, and $1,189,000 for 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Based on these elections, shares that could be issued under the plan totaled 417,299 at December 31, 2006.
Note 11 F I O-B S R
INANCIAL
NSTRUMENTS
WITH
FF
ALANCE
HEET
ISK
In the normal course of business, to meet customers' financing needs and to reduce their own exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, the Banks are parties to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, held for purposes other than trading. The financial instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. The Banks' exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party for loan commitments and standby letters of credit is represented by the contractual amount of those instruments, assuming that the amounts are fully advanced and that collateral or other security is of no value. The Banks use the same credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as they do for on-balance sheet instruments. The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary by the Banks upon extension of credit, is based on management's credit evaluation of the borrower. Collateral held varies, but may include accounts receivable, inventory, plant and equipment, and real estate.
Commitments to originate loans, unused lines of credit, and unadvanced portions of commercial real estate and construction loans are agreements to lend to a customer provided there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the amounts presented below do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.
Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Banks to guarantee the performance by a customer to a third party. These guarantees are issued primarily to support public and private borrowing arrangements, bond financing, and similar transactions. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan commitments to customers.
 
 
Financial instruments whose contractual amounts represent off-balance sheet risk at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:
 
Note 12 C C
OMMITMENTS
AND
ONTINGENCIES
The Federal Reserve System requires nonmember banks to maintain certain reserve requirements of vault cash and/or deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The amount of this reserve requirement, included in cash and cash equivalents, was $31,802,000 and $29,483,000 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Company has entered into severance agreements with the Chief Executive Officer and several members of senior management. These agreements are triggered by a change of control under certain circumstances. Payments are equal to two times (2.99 times for the CEO) the amount of the highest base salary and target bonus in effect at or following a change in control; two times (2.99 times for the CEO) the amount of the Core Contribution that would have been contributed on the officer's behalf under the Chittenden Corporation Incentive Savings and Profit Sharing Plan in the event the officer had continued employment until the end of the then current year; two times (2.99 times for the CEO) the amount of the 401(k) match, the profit sharing portion of the 401(k) contribution and the amount of the 401(k) restoration payment, if any, that would have been contributed on behalf of the officer in the event the officer had continued employment until the end of the then current year; and two times (2.99 times for the CEO) the amount that would have been contributed on behalf of the officer under the supplemental executive retirement plan for members of the executive management group in the event the officer had continued employment until the end of the then current year.
Various legal claims against the Company arising in the normal course of business were outstanding at December 31, 2006. Management, after reviewing these claims with legal counsel, is of the opinion that the resolution of these claims will not have a material effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
 
Note 13 O N E
THER
ONINTEREST
XPENSE
The components of other noninterest expense for the years presented are as follows:
 
Note 14 F V F I
AIR
ALUE
OF
INANCIAL
NSTRUMENTS
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value because they mature in 90 days or less and do not present unanticipated valuation risk.
Securities
The fair value of investment securities, other than Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) stock and Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) stock, is based on quoted market prices. The carrying value of FHLB and FRB stock represents its redemption value.
Loans
Fair values are estimated for portfolios of loans with similar financial and credit characteristics. The loan portfolio was evaluated in the following segments: 1) commercial loans which include commercial & industrial, municipal, multi-family, commercial real estate and construction and 2) residential real estate loans including home equity credit lines.
The fair value of performing commercial loans is estimated by discounting cash flows through the estimated maturity using discount rates that reflect the expected maturity, credit and interest rate risk inherent in such loans. The fair value of nonperforming commercial loans is estimated using historical net charge-off experience applied to the nonperforming balances. For performing residential real estate loans, fair value is estimated by discounting contractual cash flows adjusted for prepayment estimates using discount rates based on secondary market sources. The fair value of municipal loans is estimated to be equal to amortized cost since most of these loans mature within nine months. The fair value of consumer loans is estimated based on secondary market prices for asset-backed securities with similar characteristics.
Mortgage Servicing Rights
The fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows through the estimated maturity of the underlying mortgage loans.
 
 
Deposits
The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is equal to the amount payable on demand, that is, the carrying amount. The fair value of certificates of deposit is based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. The discount rate used is based on the estimated rates currently offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Borrowings
The fair value of long-term debt is based upon the discounted value of contractual cash flows using a discount rate consistent with currently offered rates of similar duration.
Commitments to Extend Credit and Standby Letters of Credit
The fair value of commitments to extend credit is estimated using the fees currently charged to enter into similar agreements, taking into account the remaining terms of the agreements and the present creditworthiness of the counterparties. For fixed rate loan commitments, fair value also considers the difference between current levels of interest rates and the committed rates. The fair value of financial standby letters of credit is based on fees currently charged for similar agreements or on the estimated cost to terminate them or otherwise settle the obligations with the counterparties.
Assumptions
Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about specific financial instruments. These estimates do not reflect any premium or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time the Banks' entire holdings of a particular financial instrument. Because no active observable market exists for a significant portion of the Banks' financial instruments, fair value estimates are based on judgments regarding future expected loss experience, current economic conditions, risk characteristics of various financial instruments, and other factors. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
 
 
The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are as follows:
 
Note 15 P C F S
ARENT
OMPANY
INANCIAL
TATEMENTS
Chittenden Corporation (Parent Company Only)
B S
ALANCE
HEETS
 
 
 
S
TATEMENTS
OF
INCOME
 
S C F
TATEMENTS
OF
ASH
LOWS
 
 
 
Note 16 R M
EGULATORY
ATTERS
The Company and the Banks are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company's financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company and the Banks must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of their assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Each entity's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors.
Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and the Banks to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the tables below) of total and Tier I capital (as defined in the regulation) to risk-weighted assets (as defined), and of Tier I capital to average assets (as defined). Management believes, as of December 31, 2006, that the Company and the Banks meet all capital adequacy requirements.
As of December 31, 2006, the Company and the Banks were "well capitalized" under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. To be categorized as adequately or well capitalized, the Company and the Banks must maintain minimum total risk-based, Tier 1 risk-based, and Tier 1 leverage ratios as set forth in the tables below.
The Company's and the Banks' actual capital amounts (dollars in thousands) and ratios are presented in the following tables:
 
 
 
NOTE 17 B S
USINESS
EGMENTS
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, has established standards for public companies relating to the reporting of financial and descriptive information about their operating segments in financial statements. Operating segments are components of an enterprise, which are evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company's chief operating decision maker is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
The Company has identified Commercial Banking as its reportable operating business segment based on the fact that the results of operations are viewed as a single strategic unit by the chief operating decision-maker. The Commercial Banking segment is comprised of the five Commercial Banking subsidiaries, which provide similar products and services, have similar distribution methods, types of customers and regulatory responsibilities. Commercial Banking derives its revenue from a wide range of banking services, including lending activities, acceptance of demand, savings and time deposits, business services, trust and investment management, brokerage services, mortgage banking, and loan servicing for investor portfolios.
Immaterial operating segments of the Company's operations, which do not have similar characteristics to the commercial banking operations and do not meet the quantitative thresholds requiring disclosure, are included in the Other category in the disclosure of business segments below. Revenue derived from these segments includes insurance commissions from insurance products and services, as well as other operations associated with the parent holding company. The accounting policies used in the disclosure of business segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.
 
 
The following tables present the results of the Company's reportable operating business segments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 18 R A P
ECENT
CCOUNTING
RONOUNCEMENTS
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157 "Fair Value Measurements" (Statement 157). Statement 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Statement 157 does not require any new fair value measurements, but clarifies and standardizes some divergent practices that have emerged since prior guidance was issued. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact.
In June, 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement 109" ("FIN 48"). This statement clarifies
 
 
the criteria that an individual tax position must satisfy for some or all of the benefits of that position to be recognized in a company's financial statements. FIN 48 prescribes recognition threshold of more-likelythan-not, and a measurement attribute for all tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return, in order to be recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2006. Accordingly, the Company will adopt FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN 48 will be reported as an adjustment of the Company's opening balance of retained earnings (or other appropriate components of equity or net assets in the statement of financial position). The Company has assessed the impact of this Interpretation and estimates that the adoption of this standard will not result in a material effect. The Company will implement FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007.
In March 2006, the FASB also issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 156 ("SFAS 156"), "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets". This statement amends Financial Accounting Standards No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities", with respect to the accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. SFAS 156 requires companies to recognize a servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract. The statement permits a company to choose either the amortized cost method or fair value measurement method for each class of separately recognized servicing assets. This statement is effective as of the beginning of a company's first fiscal year after September 15, 2006. The Company has analyzed SFAS 156 and determined that upon adoption it will have no material impact on the reported results of operations or financial conditions. The Company will implement SFAS 156 in the first quarter of 2007.
Note 19 S E
UBSEQUENT
VENTS
On January 19, 2007, the Company announced that it had signed a definitive merger agreement whereby Chittenden will acquire Merrill Merchants Bancshares, Inc. and its subsidiary, Merrill Merchants Bank, for approximately $111.4 million in cash and stock. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory approval, the approval of Merrill's Shareholders, and other customary closing conditions, is expected to close in the second quarter of 2007. The acquisition will be accounted for as a purchase. Merrill and its subsidiary, Merrill Merchants Bank, are headquartered in Bangor, Maine. Merrill had total assets of $449 million, $339 million in loans, deposits of $360 million, and $39 million of stockholders' equity at December 31, 2006 and presently operates 11 banking offices in central and eastern Maine.
On February 14, 2007, the Company issued $125 million of Subordinated Notes due 2017. The notes will bear interest at 5.80% per year from the date of issuance to but excluding February 14, 2012. The notes will mature on February 14, 2017. Beginning February 14, 2012, we may, at our option and subject to prior regulatory approval, redeem some or all of the notes. The Company will use the net proceeds from the sale of the notes for general corporate purposes. Initially the net proceeds may be used to make short-term investments and repay short-term borrowings.
 
T B D S C C:
O
THE
OARD
OF
IRECTORS
AND
HAREHOLDERS
OF
HITTENDEN
ORPORATION
We have completed integrated audits of Chittenden Corporation's consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
Consolidated financial statements
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Chittenden Corporation (the "Company") and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Internal control over financial reporting
Also, in our opinion, management's assessment, included in Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the COSO. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Montpelier, VT
February 26, 2007
 
The consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and, where appropriate, include amounts based upon management's best estimates and judgments. Management is responsible for the integrity and the fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements and related information.
Management maintains a system of internal controls to provide reasonable assurance that the Company's assets are safeguarded against loss and that transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization and recorded properly to permit the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. These internal controls include the establishment and communication of policies and procedures, the selection and training of qualified personnel and an internal auditing program that evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of such internal controls, policies and procedures. Management recognizes that even a highly effective internal control system has inherent risks, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls, and that the effectiveness of an internal control system can change with circumstances. However, management believes that the internal control system provides reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities that could be material to the consolidated financial statements are prevented or would be detected on a timely basis and corrected through the normal course of business. As of December 31, 2006, management believes the internal controls were in place and operating effectively.
The Board of Directors discharges its responsibility for the consolidated financial statements through its Audit Committee, which is comprised entirely of non-employee directors. The Audit Committee meets periodically with management, internal auditors and the independent public accountants. The internal auditors and the independent public accountants have direct full and free access to the Audit Committee and meet with it, with and without management being present, to discuss the scope and results of their audits and any recommendations regarding the system of internal controls.
The independent accountants were engaged to perform an independent audit of the consolidated financial statements. They have conducted their audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) as stated in their report which appears on page 86 and 87.
 
 

To People's United Financial, Inc. (Successor to Chittenden Corporation):
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Chittenden Corporation and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Chittenden Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
[PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (signed)]
January 31, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 S S A P
UMMARY
OF
IGNIFICANT
CCOUNTING
OLICIES
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Chittenden Corporation (the "Company") and its subsidiaries: Chittenden Trust Company (CTC), and its subsidiaries Chittenden Insurance Group, LLC (CIG), Chittenden Securities, LLC (CSC) and Chittenden Commercial Finance (CCF); The Bank of Western Massachusetts (BWM); Flagship Bank and Trust Company (FBT); Maine Bank & Trust (MBT); Ocean Bank (OB); and Merrill Merchants Bank (MMB). (CTC, BWM, FBT, MBT, OB, and MMB are collectively referred to as the "Banks.") All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year balances to conform to the current year presentation.
Nature of Operations
The Banks' primary business is providing loans, deposits, and other banking services to commercial, individual, and public sector customers. Chittenden Mortgage Services is a mortgage banking operation with offices in Brattleboro, Vermont. CIG is an independent insurance agency with offices in Vermont, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. CSC is a registered broker/dealer providing brokerage services to its customers through banking locations in Vermont, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine. CCF's commercial finance operations are based in Montreal, Quebec.
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant changes in the near term relate to the determination of the allowance for credit losses, income tax expense, recognition of interest income on loans, and the recognition of restructuring charges.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, amounts due from banks, interest-bearing deposits and certain money market fund investments. Cash equivalents are accounted for at cost, which approximates fair value.
Investments
Investments in debt securities may be classified as held for investment and measured at amortized cost only if the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold such securities to maturity. Investments in debt securities that are not classified as held for investment and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values are classified as either trading securities or securities available for sale. Trading securities are investments purchased and held principally for the purpose of selling in the near term; securities available for sale are investments not classified as trading or held for investment. All of the Company's securities are classified as available for sale.
Securities transferred between categories are accounted for at market value. Unrealized holding gains and losses on trading securities are included in earnings; unrealized holding gains and losses on securities available for sale or on securities transferred into the available for sale category from the held for investment category are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity, net of applicable income taxes. Unrealized losses that are considered other than temporary in nature are recognized in earnings. The Company uses the specific identification method to determine the cost basis in the recognition of gains and losses on the sales of securities as well as the calculation of unrealized gains and losses.
Loans
Loans are stated at the amount of unpaid principal, net of unearned discounts and unearned loan origination fees. Such fees and discounts are accreted using the effective-interest method. Interest on loans is included in income as earned based upon interest rates applied to unpaid principal. Interest is not accrued on loans 90 days or more past due unless they are adequately secured and in the process of collection or on other loans when management believes collection is doubtful. All loans considered impaired (except troubled debt restructurings), as defined in the following paragraph, are nonaccruing. Interest on nonaccruing loans is recognized as payments are received when the ultimate collectability of interest is no longer considered doubtful. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, all unpaid interest previously accrued is reversed against current-period interest income.
 
A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the banks will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Impaired loans are measured based on the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate. In the case of collateral dependent loans, impairment may be measured based on the fair value of the collateral. When the measure of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan, the impairment is recorded through a valuation allowance.
Allowance for Loan Losses
The allowance for loan losses is based on management's estimate of the amount required to reflect the probable inherent losses in the loan portfolio, based on circumstances and conditions known at each reporting date. There are inherent uncertainties with respect to the collectability of the Banks' loans. Because of these inherent uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that actual losses experienced in the near term may differ from the amounts reflected in these consolidated financial statements.
Adequacy of the allowance is determined using a consistent, systematic methodology, which analyzes the size and risk of the loan portfolio. In addition to evaluating the collectability of specific loans when determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, management also takes into consideration other factors such as changes in the mix and volume of the loan portfolio, historic loss experience, the amount of delinquencies and loans adversely classified, and economic trends. An allocation process whereby specific loss allocations are made against certain adversely classified loans, and general loss allocations are made against segments of the loan portfolio, which have similar attributes together, assesses the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses.
Provisions charged against current earnings increase the allowance for loan losses. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the collectability of the loan principal is doubtful. Recoveries on loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance. While management uses available information to assess probable losses on loans, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. In addition, various regulatory agencies periodically review the Company's allowance for loan losses as an integral part of their examination process. Such agencies may require the Company to recognize additions to the allowance based on judgments different from those of management.
Credit quality of the commercial portfolios is quantified by a corporate credit rating system designed to parallel regulatory criteria and categories of loan risk. Individual loan officers monitor their loans to ensure appropriate rating assignments are made on a timely basis. Risk ratings and quality of both commercial and consumer credit portfolios are also assessed on a regular basis by an independent Credit Review Department. Credit Review personnel conduct ongoing portfolio trend analyses and individual credit reviews to evaluate loan risk and compliance with corporate lending policies. Results and recommendations from this process provide senior management and the Board of Directors with independent information on the loan portfolio condition. Consumer and residential real estate loan quality is evaluated on the basis of delinquency data and other credit data available due to the large number of such loans and the relatively small size of individual credits.
Key elements of the above estimates, including assumptions used in developing independent appraisals, are dependent on the economic conditions prevailing at the time such estimates are made. Accordingly, uncertainty exists as to the final outcome of certain valuation judgments as a result of changes in economic conditions in the Banks' lending areas.
Loan Origination and Commitment Fees
Loan origination and commitment fees, and certain loan origination costs, are deferred and amortized over the contractual term of the related loans as yield adjustments using primarily the level-yield method. When loans are sold or paid off, the unamortized net fees and costs are recognized in income. Net deferred loan fees amounted to $7,312,000 and $6,849,000 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Loans Held for Sale / Gains and Losses on Sales of Mortgage Loans
Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or market value. Gains and losses on sales of mortgage loans are recognized at the time of the sale and are generally comprised of 1) an amount representing a mortgage servicing right (see below) and 2) a cash gain or loss based on the sale of the loan to a third party. The price paid by a willing third party is influenced by the contractual interest rate charged to the borrower and the prevailing market rate for similar loans. The Company enters into forward sale contracts on substantially all loan commitments at the time that the customer locks their contractual interest rate, so that the exposure due to interest rate changes on the cash gain / loss recognized by the Company is minimal.
 
Mortgage Servicing Rights
Servicing assets are recognized when rights are acquired through purchase or sale of residential mortgage loans. Capitalized servicing rights are amortized against mortgage servicing income in proportion to, and over the period of, the estimated future net servicing income of the underlying mortgage loans. Servicing assets are evaluated regularly for impairment based upon the fair value of the servicing rights as compared to their amortized cost. Fair value is determined using prices for similar assets with similar characteristics, when available, or based upon discounted cash flows using market-based assumptions.
Premises and Equipment
Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the premises and equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the terms of the respective leases or the estimated useful lives of the improvements. Expenditures for maintenance, repairs, and renewals of minor items are charged to expense as incurred.
Other Real Estate Owned
Collateral acquired through foreclosure ("Other Real Estate Owned" or "OREO") is recorded at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or the fair value of the property, less estimated costs to sell, at the time of acquisition. Net operating income or expense related to OREO is included in noninterest expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.
Identified Intangible Assets & Goodwill
Intangible assets include the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired (goodwill) in various acquisitions as well as core deposit intangibles (CDI) and customer list intangibles. Core deposit intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over 10 years. The straight-line basis is used because the Company has not experienced significant run off of core deposits in its past acquisitions. The customer list intangibles are also amortized straight-line over 10 years. The Company periodically evaluates intangible assets for impairment on the basis of whether these assets are fully recoverable based on projected, undiscounted net cash flows of the related acquired segment or customer base.
Income Taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for the temporary differences between the accounting basis and the tax basis of the Company's assets and liabilities at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the amounts related to such temporary differences are realized or settled.
Reserve for Unfunded Commitments
The reserve for unfunded commitments is based on management's estimate of the amount required to reflect the probable inherent losses on outstanding letters of credit, merchant processing activity and unused loan credit lines. Adequacy of the reserve is determined using a consistent, systematic methodology, similar to the one, which analyzes the allowance for loan losses. Additionally, management must also estimate the likelihood that these commitments would be funded and become loans. This is done by evaluating the historical utilization of each type of unfunded commitment and estimating the likelihood that the current utilization rates on lines available at the balance sheet date could increase in the future.
Investment Management and Trust
Assets under administration of approximately $10.1 billion and $9.0 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, held by the Banks in a fiduciary or agency capacity for customers, are not included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Investment management and trust income is recorded on the cash basis (which approximates the accrual method) in accordance with industry practice.
Credit Card Income
Credit card income includes interchange income from business credit cards issued by the Company, and merchant discount income. Merchant discount income consists of the fees charged on credit card receipts submitted by the Company's commercial customers. Credit card income is presented net of credit card expense, which includes fees paid by the Company to credit card issuers and third-party processors. Such amounts are recognized on the accrual basis, and are presented in noninterest income in the consolidated statements of income.
 
Insurance Commissions
Insurance commission income is recognized when billed to the customer, net of commissions paid to the producing agent. In addition, CIG may receive additional performance commissions based on achieving specific sales goals and loss experience targets.
Stock-Based Compensation
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS 123R) which amends SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". The Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective method. The modified retrospective method requires that compensation cost be recognized beginning with the effective date 1) based on the requirements of SFAS 123R for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and 2) based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123R. The modified retrospective method also requires companies to adjust prior year financials based on the amounts previously reported under the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosures for all prior periods in which SFAS 123 was effective.
Pension Accounting
Effective December 15, 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 158 ("SFAS 158"), which amends SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 to require recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the balance sheet. Under SFAS 158, gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and any remaining transition amounts under SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 that have not yet been recognized through net periodic benefit cost will be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax effects, until they are amortized as a component of net periodic cost. The measurement datethe date at which the benefit obligation and plan assets are measuredis required to be the company's fiscal year end. SFAS 158 was effective for publicly held companies for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006, except for the measurement date provisions, which are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008.
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
Accounting for Derivatives
The Company accounts and reports for derivative instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting 149, ("SFAS 149". SFAS 149 amends Statement 133 for decisions made (1) as part of the Derivatives Implementation Group, (2) in connection with other Board projects dealing with financial instruments, and (3) in connection with implementation issues raised in relation to the application of the definition of a derivative. Statements 133 and 149 require companies to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and to measure those instruments at fair value.
Amendment of Statement of 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
)
Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective, and that is designated and qualifies, as a fair value hedge, along with changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk (including losses or gains on firm commitments), are recorded in noninterest income. If a derivative has ceased to be highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
On May 21, 2002, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Chittenden Capital Trust I (the "Trust"), issued $125 million of 8% trust preferred securities ("TPS") to the public and invested the proceeds from this offering in an equivalent amount of junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company. The TPS pay interest quarterly, are mandatorily redeemable on July 1, 2032 and may be redeemed by the Trust at par any time on or after July 1, 2007. Concurrent with the issuance of these securities, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements with two counterparties, in which the Company receives 8% fixed on the notional amount of $125 million, while paying the counterparties a variable rate based on the three month LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), plus approximately 122 basis points. The Company's risk management objective for undertaking the hedge is to hedge its exposure to changes in the risk free (or benchmark) rate, specifically LIBOR. The Company designated the swap transactions as hedging the exposure in changes in the fair value of its obligation to pay 8% fixed; therefore the hedge is considered a fair value hedge. The Company assessed effectiveness of the hedge on an ongoing basis utilizing the dollar offset method effectiveness test. In August 2006, the Company terminated the interest rate swap agreements with both counterparties and settled with a final payment of interest and termination fees of $372,000. On July 1, 2007, the Company redeemed the remaining outstanding ($125 million aggregate principal amount) 8.00% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2032. The redemption of the Junior Subordinated Notes caused the trustee of the Trust to redeem the outstanding ($125 million liquidation amount) Trust Preferred Securities.
 
Restructuring Charges
The Company has adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 146 Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities ("SFAS 146"), which contains specific guidance regarding the types of, and circumstances under which, certain expenses related to restructuring activities can be accrued. In general, SFAS 146 requires that the Company have a detailed plan in place, which has been communicated to employees affected. Significant management judgment is required in estimating the amount of expense that is appropriate to recognize in relation to these plans.
NOTE 2  ACQUISITIONS AND SALES
On May 31, 2007, Chittenden acquired Merrill Merchants Bancshares, Inc., headquartered in Bangor, Maine, and its subsidiary Merrill Merchants Bank for $111.3 million in cash and stock. Shareholders of the former Merrill Merchants Bancshares, Inc. who elected cash received all of their consideration at the rate of $31.00 per share for each share of Merrill Merchants common stock. Shareholders who elected to receive Chittenden common stock received all of their consideration at the rate of 1.02 shares of Chittenden common stock for each share of Merrill Merchants common stock. The transaction has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the operations of Merrill Merchants are included in Chittenden's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. For the Merrill Merchants transaction, Chittenden recorded $3.8 million in merger related expenses.
The purchase price has been allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimates of fair value at the date of acquisition. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired has been recorded as goodwill. The fair value of these assets and liabilities is summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
On October 31, 2007, Chittenden acquired Community Bank & Trust Company, headquartered in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, for $123.7 million in cash and stock. Shareholders of the former Community Bank & Trust Company, who elected cash received all of their consideration at the rate of $33.37 per share for each share of Community Bank common stock. Shareholders who elected to receive Chittenden common stock received all of their consideration at the rate of 1.1293 shares of Chittenden common stock for each share of Community Bank common stock. The transaction has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the operations of Community Bank are included in Chittenden's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. For the Community Bank transaction, Chittenden recorded $4.9 million in merger related expenses.
 
The purchase price has been allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimates of fair value at the date of acquisition. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired has been recorded as goodwill. The fair value of these assets and liabilities is summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
Note 3 I A G
NTANGIBLE
SSETS
AND
OODWILL
Identified Intangible Assets
 
 
Goodwill
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2007 are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Note 4 I
NVESTMENTS
Investment securities at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:
 
The following table presents information related to sales of debt securities in each of the years ended December 31:
 
The market value of securities pledged to secure U.S. Treasury borrowings, public deposits, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, and for other purposes required by law, amounted to $776 million and $645 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
In the second quarter of 2007 Chittenden announced that it was taking steps to reposition its balance sheet through a strategy which involved the sale of approximately $572 million or 52% of the investment securities held in the available-for-sale investment portfolio in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.115 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities ("SFAS 115"). As a result of this strategy, Chittenden recorded a pretax loss on the sales of these securities of approximately $14.1 million. The available-for-sale investment securities, consisting primarily of lower yielding fixed rate agencies, mortgage backed securities and corporate notes, were replaced with shorter duration higher yielding securities. The Company executed the repositioning to reconfigure and shorten the cash flows of the investment portfolio to reflect the addition of Merrill Merchants, and to be consistent with its forecasts for future loan and deposit growth.
The following table shows the maturity distribution of the amortized cost of the Company's investment securities at December 31, 2007, with comparative totals for 2006. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations:
 
 
The following table shows the maturity distribution of the fair value of the Company's investment securities at December 31, 2007, with comparative totals for 2006. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations:
 
 
The following table is a summary of those investment securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than and greater than twelve months as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively:
 
 
 
The unrealized losses on the Company's investments in U.S. Treasury securities and direct obligations of U.S. government agencies were caused by interest rate increases. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of their amortized cost, which may be at maturity, and does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2007.
U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. government agency obligations.
The unrealized losses on the Company's investment in federal agency mortgage-backed securities were caused by interest rate increases. The decline in market value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of their amortized cost, which may be at maturity, and does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2007.
Mortgage-backed securities.
The Company's unrealized loss on investments in corporate bonds and notes was caused by a general increase in market interest rates. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of their amortized cost, which may be at maturity, and does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2007.
Corporate bonds and notes.
The Company's unrealized loss on investments in other equities securities was caused by a general decline in overall market conditions. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these investments and does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2007.
Other Equities securities.
During January of 2008, both the mortgage-backed securities and corporate bonds and notes portfolios were sold.
Note 5 L
OANS
The Company's lending activities are conducted primarily in Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Maine, with additional activity relating to nearby market areas in New York, Connecticut and Quebec. The Banks make single-family and multi-family residential loans, commercial real estate loans, commercial & industrial loans, and a variety of consumer loans and municipal loans. In addition, the Banks make loans for the construction of residential homes, multi-family and commercial properties, and for land development.
 
Major classifications of loans at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:
 
Changes in the allowance for loan losses are summarized as follows:
 
The principal amount of loans on nonaccrual status was $34,103,700 and $20,093,800 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At the end of 2007 and 2006, the Company had no loans whose terms had been substantially modified in troubled debt restructurings.
The amount of interest which was not earned but which would have been earned had nonaccrual loans performed in accordance with their original terms and conditions were as follows:
 
Information regarding loans that were considered to be impaired under SFAS 114 is as follows:
 
 
Residential mortgage loans serviced for others, which are not reflected in the consolidated balance sheets, totaled approximately $2.162 billion and $2.037 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No recourse provisions exist in connection with such servicing.
The following table is a summary of activity for mortgage servicing rights purchased and originated for the two years ended December 31, 2007:
 
SFAS 140 requires enterprises to measure the impairment of servicing assets based on the difference between the carrying amount of the servicing rights and their current fair value. Fair value is measured as the discounted cash flow of future servicing income expected to be received based upon market conditions at the time the estimate is made. Significant assumptions made by management at December 31, 2007 include the weighted average discount rate (9.8%), weighted average prepayment speed (238 PSA/14.10 CPR), weighted average servicing fee (25.60 basis points) and net cost to service loans ($16/loan). Based upon these assumptions, the Company calculated the fair value of its servicing rights to be $19.678 million at December 31, 2007.
The Company stratifies its servicing portfolio based upon interest rate (in increments of 50 basis points) and original loan term (primarily 15 and 30 year). The estimated market value of capitalized servicing rights may vary significantly in subsequent periods primarily due to changing market interest rates, and their effect on prepayment speeds, and discount rates. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the impairment valuation allowance was $456,000 and $622,000, respectively.
The estimated sensitivity of the current fair value of the mortgage servicing rights portfolio to changes in interest rates at December 31, 2007, was as follows:
 
The sensitivities in the table above are hypothetical and should be used with caution. The effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the mortgage servicing right is calculated independently without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. Because the amount recognized on the Company's balance sheet is at the lower of cost or market (fair value), changes in the calculated fair value of mortgage servicing rights will not necessarily translate to a corresponding change in the amount shown on the balance sheet.
 
Note 6 P E
REMISES
AND
QUIPMENT
Premises and equipment at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are summarized as follows:
 
Total depreciation expense amounted to approximately $7,381,000 and $7,427,000 in 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The Company is obligated under various noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment expiring in various years through 2031. Total lease expense, net of income from subleases, amounted to approximately $5,141,000 and $4,480,000 in 2007, and 2006, respectively.
Future minimum rental commitments for noncancelable operating leases on premises and equipment with initial or remaining terms of one year or more at December 31, 2007 are as follows:
 
 
Note 7 B
ORROWINGS
Borrowings at December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the following:
 
The above borrowings include low interest loans pertaining to the FHLB Affordable Housing Programs.
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized by U.S. Treasury and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities and corporate notes or bonds. These assets had a carrying value and a market value of $115,290,000 and $115,658,000, respectively, at December 31, 2007, and $82,254,000 and $78,369,000, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston are secured by residential mortgage loans held in the Company's loan portfolio.
The following information relates to securities sold under agreements to repurchase:
 
The following information relates to FHLB borrowings:
 
On May 21, 2002, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Chittenden Capital Trust I (the "Trust"), issued $125 million of 8% trust preferred securities ("TPS") to the public and invested the proceeds from this offering in an equivalent amount of junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company. These debentures are the sole asset of the trust subsidiary. The proceeds from the offering, which was net of $4.5 million of issuance costs, were used as the cash consideration in the Granite Bank acquisition.
 
Concurrent with the issuance of these securities, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements with two counterparties, in which the Company received 8% fixed on the notional amount of $125 million, while paying the counterparties a variable rate based on the three month LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), plus approximately 122 basis points. In August 2006, the Company terminated the interest rate swap agreements with both counterparties and settled with a final payment of interest and termination fees of $372,000. On July 1, 2007, the Company redeemed the remaining outstanding ($125 million aggregate principal amount) 8.00% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2032. The redemption of the Junior Subordinated Notes caused the trustee of the Trust to redeem the outstanding ($125 million liquidation amount) Trust Preferred Securities.
The following information relates to TPS borrowings:
 
On February 14, 2007, the Company issued $125 million in subordinated notes due February 2017. The subordinated debt has a coupon of 5.80% for the first five years and converts to a variable rate in year six that is tied to the three month LIBOR plus 68.5 basis points. The Company utilized the proceeds from the issuance of the subordinated debt, which was net of the $1.4 million of issuance costs, to redeem the Company's Trust Preferred Securities, which were called on July 1, 2007. The issuance costs will be amortized over the next seven years. Beginning February 14, 2012, the Company may choose to redeem some or all of the notes. The subordinated debt securities ratings are Moody's A3, DBRS BBBH, Fitch BBB+, and S&P BBB. The subordinated notes are included in the Company's total capital ratio as Tier two capital for regulatory standards.
The following information relates to Subordinated Debt borrowings:
 
Note 8 I T
NCOME
AXES
In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement 109" ("FIN 48"). This statement clarifies the criteria that an individual tax position must satisfy for some or all of the benefits of that position to be recognized in a company's financial statements. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold of more-likelythan-not, and a measurement attribute for all tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return, in order for those tax positions to be recognized in the financial statements. Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 and there has been no material effect on the financial statements. As a result, there was no cumulative effect related to adopting FIN 48. However, certain amounts have been reclassified in the statement of financial position in order to comply with the requirements of the statement.
 
As of January 1, 2007, the Company provided a liability for $2,948,000 of unrecognized tax benefits related to various federal and state income tax matters. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 
Of the unrecognized tax benefit of $3,274,000 at December 31, 2007, the amount that would impact the Company's effective tax rate, if recognized, is $1,212,000. The difference between the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and the amount that would impact the effective tax rate consists of items that are offset by deferred tax assets, and the federal tax benefit of state income tax items.
The Company is currently undergoing a state tax audit for the 2003 year with the state of New Hampshire. The Company expects to settle this audit over the next year but does not believe the tax liability, if any, will be material. In addition, the Company is currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service for the year ending December 31, 2005. The Company does not expect that the amounts of unrecognized tax benefits will change significantly within the next 12 months.
The Company is currently open to audit under the statute of limitations by the Internal Revenue Service for the years ending December 31, 2004 through 2006. The Company and its subsidiaries state income tax returns are open to audit under the statute of limitations for the years ending December 31, 2003 through 2006.
As of December 31, 2007, the Company has accrued $554,000 of interest expense related to uncertain tax positions. The Company accounts for interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of its provision for federal and state income taxes.
Income tax expense consists of the following:
 
Current income taxes payable, included in other liabilities, at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $2,892,000 and $3,813,000.
 
The following is a reconciliation of the provision for Federal income taxes, calculated at the statutory rate, to the recorded income tax expense:
 
The components of the net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:
 
Note 9 S' E
TOCKHOLDERS
QUITY
Treasury Stock
During 2007, the Company repurchased a total of 1.3 million shares of common stock, with the last repurchase made on June 7, 2007.
Dividends
Dividends paid by the Banks are the primary source of funds available to the Company for payment of dividends to its stockholders and for other corporate needs. Applicable federal and state statutes, regulations, and guidelines impose restrictions on the amount of dividends that may be declared by the Banks. The Company paid dividends to stockholders' of $39.4 million, and $36.2 million during 2007, 2006, respectively.
 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all other non-owner changes in equity. The Company has chosen to display comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity. The following table summarizes reclassification detail for other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31:
 
Note 10 S P
TOCK
LANS
The Company has two stock option plans: The Stock Incentive Plan, and the Directors' Omnibus Long-term Incentive Plan. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective method to account for share-based payments to employees and the Company's Board of Directors. In accordance with the modified retrospective method, the Company has adjusted previously reported results to reflect the effect of expensing stock options granted during those periods.
Under the plans there are various types of stock incentives, including, but not limited to options; restricted stock which vests after a specified period of time; unrestricted stock awards; and performance awards. The primary type of share-based payment utilized by the Company is stock options. Stock options are awards, which allow the employee to purchase shares of the Company's stock at a fixed price. In accordance with Chittenden's Stock Incentive Plan, stock options are granted at an exercise price equal to the Company stock price at the date of grant. For the 2007 grants the Company's Board of Directors changed the option life from ten years to seven years. There were a total of 7,688,324 shares at December 31, 2007 and 2006 available to be issued under the plans and 4,646,449 and 6,163,698 had been issued at each of these dates. In 2007, the Company also awarded restricted stock awards of 80,400 shares pursuant to the Corporation's Stock Incentive Plan. These awards have a grant date value of $31.20 per share and cliff vest at the end of three years.
The Company has a Performance Share Program that governs Performance Share Awards under the Stock Incentive Plan. Performance awards consist of shares of the Company's common stock to be issued at the conclusion of the three-year performance cycle provided that performance goals are met as measured by one or more of the following: corporate profitability, EPS, ROE and/or other measures as deemed relevant by the Executive Committee. In 2007 and 2006, targets of 28,900 and 45,500 Performance Shares were set that could be earned at the end of the three-year performance cycle if the performance measures are attained. The plan is a leveraged plan meaning that if the Company is ranked in the 100
th
percentile versus its comparison group, up to 150% of the targeted amount of shares could be earned. In order to earn the full target award of 28,900, the Company would need to be ranked in the 75
th
percentile. If the Company is not ranked in at least the 25
th
percentile, no shares will be awarded. Notwithstanding these guidelines, the Board of Directors has the authority to reduce, but not increase, these awards if they deem it to be appropriate in the circumstances. Salary expenses related to the performance shares were $908,000 in 2007 and $855,000 in 2006.
 
The following tables summarize information regarding the Company's stock option plans:
 
In connection with the pending merger with People's United Financial, Inc., the Company and certain executive officers of the Company agreed that in lieu of the payment by People's United contemplated by the merger agreement, the Company would pay cash to each executive equal to the number of shares of the Company's common stock subject to each unexercised option, multiplied by the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the Company's common stock on December 26, 2007, over the exercise price of the unexercised option. The Company made these payments on December 27, 2007, in exchange for the surrender by the executives of all such unexercised options for cancellation by the Company. Options to purchase a total of 2,087,460 shares of the Company's common stock were surrendered in exchange for an aggregate amount of approximately $24.2 million.
O O E
PTIONS
UTSTANDING
AND
XERCISABLE
December 31, 2007
 
The Company estimates the fair value of stock option grants using the Black-Scholes valuation model and the key input assumptions are: expected volatility, expected term of option, risk-free interest rate and dividend yield. Expected volatility estimates are developed by the Company based on historical volatility of the Company's stock. The Company uses historical data to estimate the expected term of the options. The risk-free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield in effect at the grant date. The dividend yield represents the expected dividends on the Company stock. The Company believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are consistent with SFAS 123R. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict the actual future value ultimately realized by employees who receive share-based awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of original estimates of fair value made by the Company under SFAS 123R.
 
The following table presents the key input assumptions for the Black-Scholes valuation model for grants in 2007, and 2006:
 
The total intrinsic value (market value on date of exercise less grant price) of options exercised during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, and 2006, was $5.6 million, and $1.9 million, respectively. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2007, and 2006 was approximately $13.7 million, and $6.8 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized as a result of the stock option exercises was $1.7 million in 2007 compared with $619,000 in 2006.
The total compensation costs related to options were $2.8 million and $3.2 million during 2007, and 2006, respectively. These amounts are included in salary expense in the accompanying consolidated Statements of Income.
Note 11 E B
MPLOYEE
ENEFITS
Pension Plan
The Company sponsors a qualified defined benefit pension plan that covers substantially all of its employees who meet minimum age and service requirements.
In 2005, the Board of Directors approved changes to the Company's retirement program. As a result, on December 31, 2005, benefits accrued under the defined benefit Pension Account Plan were frozen based on participants' current service and pay levels.
The changes in the benefit obligation for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:
 
Weighted-average assumptions used in determining pension obligations for the years ended December 31:
 
 
The changes in the plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:
 
The asset allocation for the Company's pension plan at December 31, 2006 and 2007, and the target asset allocation for 2008, by asset category are as follows:
 
Chittenden uses a measurement date of September 30 for its pension plan.
The Company's investment policy seeks to achieve long-term capital growth to enable the plan to meet its future benefit obligations to participants and to maintain liquidity sufficient to cover plan distributions without exposing the Company to undue investment risk. Following the freezing of the pension plan in 2006, a larger portion of plan assets was dedicated to debt securities in 2007 to reduce the risk of funded status erosion due to changes in the market value of investments. The Retirement Plan Committee is responsible for overseeing the investment performance of the plan, including evaluating the performance of the investment managers. The Committee is also responsible for periodically reviewing the plan's investment objectives and guidelines to ensure they remain appropriate.
Funded status, end of year:
 
Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position:
 
 
Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (pretax):
 
At the end of 2007 and 2006, the projected benefit obligation, the accumulated benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets for the pension plan with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets and for the pension plan with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets were as follows:
 
Benefit disbursements and employer contributions for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, and expected benefit disbursements and contributions for 2008 are as follows (in thousands):
 
Expected Cash Flows
 
Net pension expense components included in employee benefits in the consolidated statements of income are as follows:
 
 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost:
 
The estimated amounts that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in 2008 are as follows (in thousands):
 
Based on a representative allocation within the revised target asset allocation described above, management expects an annual long-term return for its portfolio of 6.50% beginning in 2008. In formulating this assumed long-term rate of return, the Company considered historical returns by asset category and expectations for future returns by asset category based, in part, on simulated capital market performance over the next 15 years. Resulting expected returns by asset category have been weighted based on the target asset allocation to produce the weighted average assumption of 6.50%.
Amounts resulting from changes in actuarial assumptions used to measure the Company's benefit obligations are not recognized as they occur, but are amortized systematically over subsequent periods.
CTC has supplemental pension arrangements with certain retired employees. The liability, included in accrued expenses and other liabilities, related to such arrangements was $1,018,000 and $1,149,000 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The Company has established a supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP) for members of the executive management group. This unfunded plan is intended to cover only those benefits excluded from coverage under the Company's qualified 401 (k) plan as a result of IRS regulations. The design elements of this SERP mirror those of the Company's qualified plan. In addition to the SERP, the Company has a separate arrangement with its Chief Executive Officer under which contributions are accrued based upon the Company's return on equity (ROE). A ROE of 10% is the minimum threshold at which any contribution will be made. Benefits are payable upon attaining the age of 55, except in the event of death or disability. The liability related to the CEO's SERP, included in accrued expenses and other liabilities was $4,123,000 and $3,675,000 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Expenses related to this plan were $448,000, and $417,385 in 2007, and 2006, respectively.
Other Benefit Plans
The Company has an incentive savings and profit sharing plan to provide eligible employees with a means to invest a portion of their earnings for retirement. Eligible employees of the Company may contribute, by salary reductions, up to 6% of their compensation as a basic employee contribution and may contribute up to an additional 20% of their compensation as a supplemental employee contribution. Investment in the Company's common stock is one of the investment options available to employees; however, there are no restrictions on transfers or required holding periods.
During the two year period ended December 31, 2007, the Company made incentive savings contributions in amounts equal to 35% of each employee's basic contribution, which was charged to benefits expense.
 
 
The Company may also make an additional matching contribution (profit-sharing) to the incentive savings and profit sharing plan based on the extent to which the annual corporate profitability goals established by the Board of Directors are met. Benefits expense related to the additional matching contribution totaled:
 
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company's annual contribution to the Incentive Savings and Profit Sharing Plan (401(k) Plan) was enhanced for all eligible employees, which was $4,800,000, and $4,300,000 in 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The following table reflects the shares of the Company's common stock that were purchased through the incentive savings and profit sharing plan, during each of the last two years:
 
The Company has established a supplemental executive savings plan. This plan is intended to cover only those benefits excluded from coverage under the Corporation's qualified incentive savings and profit sharing plan as a result of IRS regulations. Any contributions under this supplemental plan, when combined with the regular pre-tax contributions shall not exceed 16% of the individual's earnings. Benefit expense related to this plan was $236,000, and $87,000 in 2007, and 2006, respectively.
The Company also has an Executive Management Incentive Compensation Plan. Executives at defined levels of responsibility are eligible to participate in the plan. Incentive award payments are determined on the basis of corporate and group profitability, relative performance within a defined peer group and individual performance. Awards may range from zero to 100% of annual compensation. Expenses for this plan totaled $2,547,000, and $2,058,000 in 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The Company has a Deferred Compensation Plan, which was amended and restated on October 18, 2006. The Plan was amended and restated to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, effective January 1, 2005 and to allow certain executive Employees to participate in the Plan and make other changes effective January 1, 2007. The Plan was also renamed the Chittenden Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan. The Plan is intended to be a "plan" which is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), and shall be interpreted and administered to the extent possible in a manner consistent with that intent. Deferrals may be made to an uninsured interest bearing account or to an account recorded in equivalents of the Company's common stock. Directors are required to defer 50% of their compensation (and may defer as much as 100%) in the equivalent of the Company's common stock. Expenses for this plan totaled $1,663,000, $1,365,000 for 2007, and 2006, respectively. Based on these elections, shares that could be issued under the plan totaled 398,469 and 417,299 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Note 12 F I O-B S R
INANCIAL
NSTRUMENTS
WITH
FF
ALANCE
HEET
ISK
In the normal course of business, to meet customers' financing needs and to reduce their own exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, the Banks are parties to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, held for purposes other than trading. The financial instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. The Banks' exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party for loan commitments and standby letters of credit is represented by the contractual amount of those instruments, assuming that the amounts are fully advanced and that collateral or other security is of no value. The Banks use the same credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as they do for on-balance sheet instruments. The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary by the Banks upon extension of credit, is based on management's credit evaluation of the borrower. Collateral held varies, but may include accounts receivable, inventory, plant and equipment, and real estate.
 
Commitments to originate loans, unused lines of credit, and unadvanced portions of commercial real estate and construction loans are agreements to lend to a customer provided there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the amounts presented below do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.
Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Banks to guarantee the performance by a customer to a third party. These guarantees are issued primarily to support public and private borrowing arrangements, bond financing, and similar transactions. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan commitments to customers.
Financial instruments whose contractual amounts represent off-balance sheet risk at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:
 
Note 13 C C
OMMITMENTS
AND
ONTINGENCIES
The Federal Reserve System requires nonmember banks to maintain certain reserve requirements of vault cash and/or deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The amount of this reserve requirement, included in cash and cash equivalents, was $45,026,000 and $31,802,000 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Various legal claims against the Company arising in the normal course of business were outstanding at December 31, 2006. Management, after reviewing these claims with legal counsel, is of the opinion that the resolution of these claims will not have a material effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
In October 2007, Visa completed a reorganization in contemplation of its initial public offering ("IPO") expected to occur in 2008. As part of that reorganization Chittenden Bank, a subsidiary of Chittenden Corporation, and other member banks of Visa received shares of common stock of Visa, Inc. Those banks are also obligated under various agreements with Visa to share in losses stemming from certain litigation ("Covered Litigation"). Although Visa is expected to set aside a portion of the proceeds from its IPO in an escrow account to fund any judgments or settlements that may arise out of the Covered Litigation, recent guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") indicates that Visa member banks should record a liability for the fair value of the contingent obligation to Visa. The estimate of Chittenden's proportionate share of any potential losses related to the Covered Litigation is difficult to determine and involves a great deal of judgment. Nevertheless, in the fourth quarter of 2007 Chittenden recorded a pre-tax charge of $1.95 million ($1.12 million after tax) related to the Covered Litigation. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and consistent with the SEC guidance, Chittenden did not recognize any value for its common stock ownership interest in Visa, Inc.
 
Note 14 O N E
THER
ONINTEREST
XPENSE
The components of other noninterest expense for the years presented are as follows:
 
Note 15 F V F I
AIR
ALUE
OF
INANCIAL
NSTRUMENTS
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value because they mature in 90 days or less and do not present unanticipated valuation risk.
Securities
The fair value of investment securities, other than Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) stock and Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) stock, is based on quoted market prices. The carrying value of FHLB and FRB stock represents its redemption value.
Loans
Fair values are estimated for portfolios of loans with similar financial and credit characteristics. The loan portfolio was evaluated in the following segments: 1) commercial loans which include commercial & industrial, municipal, multi-family, commercial real estate and construction and 2) residential real estate loans including home equity credit lines.
The fair value of performing commercial loans is estimated by discounting cash flows through the estimated maturity using discount rates that reflect the expected maturity, credit and interest rate risk inherent in such loans. The fair value of nonperforming commercial loans is estimated using historical net charge-off experience applied to the nonperforming balances. For performing residential real estate loans, fair value is estimated by discounting contractual cash flows adjusted for prepayment estimates using discount rates based on secondary market sources. The fair value of municipal loans is estimated to be equal to amortized cost since most of these loans mature within nine months. The fair value of consumer loans is estimated based on secondary market prices for asset-backed securities with similar characteristics.
Mortgage Servicing Rights
The fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows through the estimated maturity of the underlying mortgage loans.
Deposits
The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is equal to the amount payable on demand, that is, the carrying amount. The fair value of certificates of deposit is based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. The discount rate used is based on the estimated rates currently offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Borrowings
The fair value of long-term debt is based upon the discounted value of contractual cash flows using a discount rate consistent with currently offered rates of similar duration.
 
Commitments to Extend Credit and Standby Letters of Credit
The fair value of commitments to extend credit is estimated using the fees currently charged to enter into similar agreements, taking into account the remaining terms of the agreements and the present creditworthiness of the counterparties. For fixed rate loan commitments, fair value also considers the difference between current levels of interest rates and the committed rates. The fair value of financial standby letters of credit is based on fees currently charged for similar agreements or on the estimated cost to terminate them or otherwise settle the obligations with the counterparties.
Assumptions
Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about specific financial instruments. These estimates do not reflect any premium or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time the Banks' entire holdings of a particular financial instrument. Because no active observable market exists for a significant portion of the Banks' financial instruments, fair value estimates are based on judgments regarding future expected loss experience, current economic conditions, risk characteristics of various financial instruments, and other factors. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are as follows:
 
 
Note 16 R M
EGULATORY
ATTERS
The Company and the Banks are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company's financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company and the Banks must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of their assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Each entity's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors.
Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and the Banks to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the tables below) of total and Tier I capital (as defined in the regulation) to risk-weighted assets (as defined), and of Tier I capital to average assets (as defined). Management believes, as of December 31, 2007, that the Company and the Banks meet all capital adequacy requirements.
As of December 31, 2007, the Company and the Banks were "well capitalized" under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. To be categorized as adequately or well capitalized, the Company and the Banks must maintain minimum total risk-based, Tier 1 risk-based, and Tier 1 leverage ratios as set forth in the tables below.
The Company's and the Banks' actual capital amounts (dollars in thousands) and ratios are presented in the following tables:
 
 
Note 17 R A P
ECENT
CCOUNTING
RONOUNCEMENTS
In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 159 ("SFAS 159"), The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which gives entities the option to measure eligible financial assets, and financial liabilities at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. The election to use the fair value option is available when an entity first recognizes a financial asset or financial liability. Subsequent changes in fair value must be recorded in earnings. This statement is effective as of the beginning of a company's first fiscal year after November 15, 2007. The Company is in the process of analyzing the impact of SFAS 159.
Note 18 S E
UBSEQUENT
VENTS
On January 1, 2008, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 26, 2007, People's United Financial, Inc. ("Peoples United") and Chittenden Corporation completed the merger in which Chittenden merged with and into People's United, with People's United as the surviving corporation.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each share of Chittenden common stock outstanding was converted into the right to receive either $35.636 in cash or 2.0457 shares of People's United common stock, at the election of each Chittenden stockholder, subject to limitations on the aggregate amount of cash to be paid by People's United. People's United will pay approximately $1.8 billion in cash and People's United common stock to Chittenden stockholders, consisting of approximately $1.0 billion in cash and 44.2 million shares of People's United common stock.
 

PRELIMINARY UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
On January 1, 2008, People's United Financial, Inc. ("People's United Financial") and Chittenden Corporation ("Chittenden") completed the merger (the "Merger") in which Chittenden merged with and into People's United Financial, with People's United Financial as the surviving corporation. Each share of Chittenden common stock outstanding at the effective time of the Merger was converted into the right to receive either $35.636 in cash or 2.0457 shares of People's United Financial common stock. Merger consideration consisted of approximately $1.0 billion in cash and 44.3 million shares of People's United Financial common stock. The transaction will be accounted for as a purchase and accordingly, Chittenden's assets and liabilities will be recorded by People's United Financial at their estimated fair values as of January 1, 2008.
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and notes present how the combined financial statements of People's United Financial and Chittenden may have appeared had the Merger been completed at the beginning of the periods presented. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the impact of the Merger on the combined balance sheets and on the combined statements of income under the purchase method of accounting with People's United Financial treated as the acquirer. Under the purchase method of accounting, Chittenden's assets and liabilities are recorded by People's United Financial at their estimated fair values as of the date the Merger is completed. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2007 assumes the Merger was completed on that date. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2007 assumes the Merger was completed on January 1, 2007. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information assumes Merger consideration consisted of approximately $1.0 billion in cash and approximately 44.3 million shares of People's United Financial common stock.
 
It is anticipated that the Merger will provide People's United Financial with financial benefits such as possible revenue enhancements and expense savings, among other factors, although no assurances can be given that such benefits will actually be achieved. The impact of these benefits has not been reflected in the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. As required, the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes adjustments that give effect to events that are directly attributable to the Merger and factually supportable; as such, adjustments affecting the balance sheet, statement of income, or shares of common stock outstanding subsequent to the assumed Merger completion dates have not been included.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the financial results of the combined companies had the Merger actually been completed at the beginning of the period presented nor does it indicate future results for any other interim or full-year period. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the allocation of the purchase price reflected in the preliminary pro forma condensed combined financial information is subject to adjustment. The preliminary purchase price allocation for the Merger may vary from the actual purchase price allocation that will ultimately be recorded upon the completion of the Merger based upon changes in the estimated fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired from Chittenden. In addition, subsequent to the Merger completion date, there may be further refinements of the purchase price allocation as additional information becomes available.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes of People's United Financial and Chittenden, which are incorporated into this document by reference.
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2007 combines the December 31, 2007 balance sheets of People's United Financial and Chittenden assuming the Merger was completed on December 31, 2007.
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2007 combines the statements of income of People's United Financial and Chittenden assuming the Merger was completed on January 1, 2007.
 
 
NOTES TO PRELIMINARY UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Note 1  Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation
The merger of Chittenden with and into People's United Financial will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and accordingly, Chittenden's assets acquired (including identifiable intangible assets and goodwill) and liabilities assumed will be recorded at fair value on the date the transaction is completed. The Merger is expected to qualify as a tax-free reorganization for federal income tax purposes. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007. The financial statements of Chittenden have been adjusted to reflect reporting reclassifications necessary to conform to the presentation of the financial statements of People's United Financial.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the application of generally accepted accounting principles as of December 31, 2007. The adoption of new or changes to existing generally accepted accounting principles subsequent to December 31, 2007, including People's United Financial's adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements," effective January 1, 2008, may result in significant changes to the final purchase accounting adjustments. No pro forma adjustment to the carrying value of loans or allowances have been recorded in accordance with the Statement of Position 03-3, "Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer," reflecting the insignificant level of Chittenden non-performing assets for the period presented.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes estimated adjustments to record Chittenden's assets and liabilities at their respective fair values based on management's best estimate using the information available at this time. The pro forma adjustments may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analysis is performed. The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined after the Merger is completed and after the
 
completion of a final analysis to determine the fair values of Chittenden's tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of the closing date. The final purchase price accounting adjustments may differ materially from the pro forma adjustments presented herein. Increases or decreases in fair value of certain balance sheet amounts and other items of Chittenden as compared to the information presented herein may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in yield and/or amortization of adjusted assets and liabilities.
The pro forma basic and diluted common shares were calculated using People's United Financial's actual weighted-average shares outstanding for the period presented, plus the incremental shares issued, assuming the Merger occurred at the beginning of the period presented.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations or the financial position that would have resulted had the Merger been completed as of or at the beginning of the period presented, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results of operations or the financial position for any other interim or full-year period.
The preliminary pro forma adjustments include purchase price adjustments based on total estimated consideration of $1.8 billion, which consisted of the issuance of approximately 44.3 million shares of People's United Financial common stock, valued at $17.42 per share, and approximately $1.0 billion in cash. The value of the Merger consideration to be received in exchange for one share of Chittenden common stock would have been approximately $35.636 and each share of Chittenden common stock not exchanged for that amount in cash consideration would have been exchanged for 2.0457 shares of People's United Financial common stock.
 
Note 2  Preliminary Pro Forma Adjustments
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes the preliminary pro forma balance sheet as of December 31, 2007, assuming the Merger was completed on that date. The preliminary pro forma income statement for the year ended December 31, 2007 assumes the Merger was completed on January 1, 2007.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects Merger consideration of approximately 44.3 million shares of People's United Financial common stock and approximately $1.0 billion in cash. The value of the common stock was based on the exchange ratio noted above in Note 1  Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation.
A reconciliation of the preliminary consideration paid by People's United Financial over Chittenden's net assets acquired ("goodwill") is as follows:
 
 
The excess of the total purchase price over the adjusted net assets acquired was allocated to assets and liabilities as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3  Merger Related Costs
Certain merger-related costs are estimated at $9 million. These estimated merger-related costs will be incurred by People's United Financial and expensed as incurred. An estimate of integration costs has not yet been determined, given the preliminary stages of integration efforts. As such, these costs have not been included in the preliminary pro-forma condensed combined balance sheet or income statement.
Note 4  Core Deposit Intangibles
The purchase accounting adjustments include the establishment of the core deposit intangible of $124.1 million as of December 31, 2007. The core deposit intangible was estimated based on Chittenden's total deposits at December 31, 2007, the current interest rate environment and alternative funding
 
sources. A final analysis and valuation of the core deposit intangible will be preformed with the assistance of an independent third party upon completion of the Merger. The amortization of the core deposit intangible resulting from the Merger in the pro forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2007 was assumed to be over a 10-year period using a straight-lined amortization method.
The following table summarizes the amortization of the preliminary core deposit intangible at an effective annual tax rate of 35.0%.
 
 


