FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20080718084446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 17, 2008, People's United Financial, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2008. A copy of that press release is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 2.02 (including the Exhibit hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
 
(b) Philip R. Sherringham, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, will relinquish his role as interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company on August 5, 2008.
(c) On July 17, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Paul D. Burner as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective August 5, 2008.
Mr. Burner's annualized base salary for 2008 will be $450,000. His target bonus for 2008 under the Short-Term Incentive Plan is equal to 80% of his annual salary, with a minimum payout of $180,000. The actual payout may be higher depending on the Company's attainment of 2008 performance goals set by the Board of Directors. In addition, Mr. Burner received an award under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan consisting of cash-based performance units having a target payout of $145,800 for the 2008-2010 performance cycle, and a target value of $84,600 for the 2007-2009 performance cycle. The amounts actually paid pursuant to these performance units will depend on the Company's attainment of performance goals to be established by the Board for each year during the applicable performance cycle.
Mr. Burner will also be entitled to such other benefits (including eligibility to participate in various non-qualified benefit plans) as are generally provided from time to time to other executive officers of the Company.
The Board has not yet taken action regarding the grant of equity-based awards to Mr. Burner, but is expected to do so at a future date.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Burner's appointment and providing additional information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
A copy of presentation materials dated July 18, 2008 is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.3. These materials were prepared for use in connection with the earnings conference call scheduled for 11 a.m. Eastern time on July 18, 2008.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 7.01 (including the Exhibit hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

                    NEWS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JULY 17, 2008
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL REPORTS SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS OF $43 MILLION OR $0.13 PER SHARE
Quarter Characterized by Solid Asset Quality and Strong Capital Position
 People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) today announced net income of $43.0 million, or $0.13 per share, for the second quarter of 2008, compared to $13.5 million, or $0.05 per share, for the second quarter of 2007. The prior year quarter's results included the $60 million contribution to The People's United Community Foundation, which had the effect of reducing net income by $39.6 million, or $0.13 per share. Earnings for the second quarter of 2008 reflect continued low levels of net loan charge-offs and a partial benefit from previously announced cost-reduction initiatives. Additionally, as expected, there was continued margin pressure given the interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve Bank earlier this year and the temporary investment of the company's significant excess capital in low-yielding short-term investments.
BRIDGEPORT, CT.
People's United Financial completed its acquisition of Chittenden Corporation on January 1, 2008. Accordingly, People's United Financial's second quarter 2007 results do not include the results of Chittenden Corporation.
For the second quarter of 2008, return on average tangible assets was 0.91 percent and return on average tangible stockholders' equity was 4.7 percent, compared to 0.41 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively, for the year-ago quarter.
The Board of Directors of People's United Financial declared a $0.15 per share quarterly dividend, payable August 15, 2008 to shareholders of record on August 1, 2008. Based on the closing stock price on July 16, 2008, the dividend yield on People's United Financial common stock is 3.8 percent.
President and Chief Executive Officer, Philip R. Sherringham stated, "While our results this quarter continue to be negatively impacted by the interest rate cuts initiated by the Federal Reserve Bank, we take great comfort in our fortress balance sheet, and remain focused on our commercial and retail banking strategy. The reduced level of interest income recorded this quarter directly reflects the lower absolute rate earned on federal funds, and is due to our deliberate decision to value the security of our excess capital investment over the potential to increase near-term earnings at the risk of future impairment."
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 2Q Earnings
Page 2
Sherringham added, "Continued margin compression was expected this quarter given the asset sensitive position of our balance sheet. The net interest margin was down 11 basis points from the first quarter primarily as a result of the dramatic actions taken by the Federal Reserve Bank during 2008. We would also note that the rate of margin compression has slowed substantially since the Federal Reserve Bank first initiated its series of interest rate cuts in late 2007."
At June 30, 2008, non-performing assets totaled $86.4 million, a $19.4 million increase from March 31, 2008. Non-performing assets equaled 0.60 percent of total loans, REO and repossessed assets, compared to 0.46 percent at March 31, 2008. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.06 percent at June 30, 2008 compared to 1.05 percent at March 31, 2008.
Second quarter net loan charge-offs totaled $2.4 million compared to $2.8 million in the first quarter of 2008. Net loan charge-offs as a percent of average loans on an annualized basis were 0.07 percent in the second quarter of 2008 compared to 0.08 percent in this year's first quarter. The level of the allowance for loan losses is unchanged from March 31, 2008.
Commenting on asset quality, Sherringham stated, "While we expect the level of non-performing assets to fluctuate in response to changing economic and market conditions, we remain comfortable with the current levels and have not seen any pervasive weakness in any sector of the loan portfolio. This quarter saw an increase in non-performing assets, primarily due to three commercial relationships in the northern New England portfolio totaling $13 million."
Sherringham continued, "However, the ratio of non-performing loans to total loans was 0.58 percent at June 30, 2008, net loan charge-offs remain extremely low and the ratio of the allowance for loan losses to total loans increased slightly. We feel that the loan portfolio continues to benefit from our stringent underwriting standards, and we have made sure that those standards are now in effect throughout the former Chittenden franchise."
Sherringham concluded, "We feel the best use of our capital is to have the patience to find and execute a well priced acquisition that will best enhance the long-term profitability of the company. Therefore, we do not feel under pressure to immediately deploy the excess capital in either a poorly priced deal or an aggressive stock buyback. However, we are committed to a strong dividend policy and feel that continues to be an appropriate avenue to enhance shareholder returns. Our balance sheet continues to be funded primarily by deposits and stockholders' equity. Given the many challenges of today's environment, the strength of our capital and liquidity positions, asset quality and earnings set us apart from most in the industry."
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 2Q Earnings
Page 3
Conference Call
On July 18, 2008, at 11 a.m., Eastern Time, People's United Financial will host a conference call to discuss this earnings announcement. The call may be heard through by selecting "Investor Relations" in the "About People's" section on the home page, and then selecting "Conference Calls" in the "News and Events" section. Additional materials relating to the call may also be accessed at People's United Bank's web site. The call will be archived on the web site and available for approximately 90 days.
www.peoples.com
Selected Financial Terms
In addition to evaluating People's United Financial's results of operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), management routinely supplements this evaluation with an analysis of certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as the efficiency ratio. Management believes this non-GAAP financial measure provides information useful to investors in understanding People's United Financial's underlying operating performance and trends, and facilitates comparisons with the performance of other banks and thrifts.
The efficiency ratio, which represents an approximate measure of the cost required by People's United Financial to generate a dollar of revenue, is the ratio of total non-interest expense (excluding goodwill impairment charges, amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and fair value adjustments, losses on real estate assets and nonrecurring expenses) to net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (excluding fair value adjustments) plus total non-interest income (including the fully taxable equivalent adjustment on bank-owned life insurance income, and excluding gains and losses on sales of assets, other than residential mortgage loans, and nonrecurring income). People's United Financial generally considers an item of income or expense to be nonrecurring if it is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type incurred within the last two years and is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type reasonably expected to be incurred within the following two years. Management considers the efficiency ratio to be more representative of People's United Financial's ongoing operating efficiency, as the excluded items are generally related to external market conditions and non-routine transactions.
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 2Q Earnings
Page 4
2Q 2008 Financial Highlights
Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Banking
 
 
 
 
Retail & Small Business Banking
 
 
 
 
 
Treasury
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 2Q Earnings
Page 5
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $20 billion in assets, provides consumer and commercial banking services through a network of more than 300 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Maine and New York. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.
Certain statements contained in this release are forward-looking in nature. These include all statements about People's United Financial's plans, objectives, expectations and other statements that are not historical facts, and usually use words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe" and similar expressions. Such statements represent management's current beliefs, based upon information available at the time the statements are made, with regard to the matters addressed. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause People's United Financial's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements. Factors of particular importance to People's United Financial include, but are not limited to: (1) changes in general, national or regional economic conditions; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in loan default and charge-off rates; (4) changes in deposit levels; (5) changes in levels of income and expense in non-interest income and expense related activities; (6) residential mortgage and secondary market activity; (7) changes in accounting and regulatory guidance applicable to banks; (8) price levels and conditions in the public securities markets generally; (9) competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; and (10) the successful integration of Chittenden Corporation. People's United Financial does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Access Information About People's United Financial on the World Wide Web at .
www.peoples.com
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
People's United Financial, Inc. acquired Chittenden Corporation on January 1, 2008. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, financial data for periods prior to the acquisition date do not include Chittenden Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - Continued
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - Continued
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
(1)
AVERAGE BALANCE, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
(1)
AVERAGE BALANCE, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-PERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
NET LOAN CHARGE-OFFS (RECOVERIES)
 
 

                    NEWS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 17, 2008
PEOPLE'S UNITED NAMES PAUL D. BURNER CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Most Recent Role as CFO of Citibank North America Caps 29-Year Tenure at Citigroup
People's United Financial, Inc. (Nasdaq: PBCT) today announced it has named Paul D. Burner Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the company and its principal subsidiary, People's United Bank, effective August 5, 2008. Burner, 55, was most recently Chief Financial Officer of Citibank North America, a $120 billion retail banking business serving consumer and commercial customers in over 1,000 branches across 13 states. He joins People's United from a 29-year career at Citigroup where he held positions of increasing responsibility in a variety of business lines, including commercial lending and consumer finance.
BRIDGEPORT, CT 
As CFO of Citibank North America, beginning in 1998, Burner was responsible for working across business areas to help drive change throughout the organization. He implemented a variety of income-driving and cost-savings initiatives, participated in significant decisions regarding acquisitions and divestitures, and improved business controls throughout the company.
"Paul's experience, which spans three decades, is as broad as it is deep and includes essentially every area of financial and business oversight," said Philip R. Sherringham, President and Chief Executive Officer, People's United Financial. "We welcome him to People's United and look forward to working together as we continue to build the premier regional banking company in the Northeast."
During his career at Citigroup Burner worked in a range of businesses and developed extensive capabilities in a variety of areas such as acquisitions, wealth management and treasury. His other past roles include Executive Vice President and Treasurer, Primerica Financial Services; Chief Operating Officer, Primerica Financial Services of Canada; Director of Funding and Assistant Treasurer, Commercial Credit Company; and Regional Director, Corporate Finance, Commercial Credit Company.
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $20 billion in assets, through its principal subsidiary, People's United Bank provides consumer and commercial banking services across a network of more than 300 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Maine and New York. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Bank provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.



