FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20081020075337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 16, 2008, People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2008. A copy of that press release is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 2.02 (including the Exhibit hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On October 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the Company to enter into an agreement with each executive officer of the Company's subsidiary, People's United Bank, providing certain benefits in the event a covered officer's employment is terminated under specified circumstances and within a specified period of time following a change in control of the Company. Each such agreement ( a "Change in Control Agreement") will have a term of three years.
The Company will not enter into a Change in Control Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer because he is entitled to similar protections pursuant to the terms of his employment agreement with the Company.
If a covered officer's employment with the Company is terminated without "cause", or a covered officer resigns for "good reason" (each as defined in the Change in Control Agreement), within three years following a change in control of the Company that occurs during the three-year term of the Change in Control Agreement, the Company will make payments and provide benefits to the covered officer as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
2
The cash severance multiple noted above is three for Senior Executive Vice Presidents and 2.5 for Executive Vice Presidents.
As a condition to receiving any of the payments or benefits described above, the covered officer must first sign and deliver a release of claims to the Company.
If any payments or distributions made to a covered officer become subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, then the covered officer will be entitled to receive an additional "gross-up" payment in an amount which, net of all applicable taxes, interest and penalties, will equal the amount of the excise tax payable by the covered officer with respect to the initial payment or distribution. However, if the excise tax could be avoided by reducing the initial payment or distribution by less than 10%, the initial payment or distribution shall be reduced to the maximum amount that would not result in the imposition of the excise tax, and no gross-up payment shall be due.
The Change in Control Agreements are not employment agreements. The Company may terminate any covered officer's employment at any time, with or without cause. Likewise, a covered officer may resign at any time, with or without good reason. Regardless of the reason for termination of a covered officer's employment, and regardless of whether such termination requires the payment of benefits to the covered officer pursuant to the Change in Control Agreement, the covered officer will be entitled to all rights and benefits under any retirement and non-retirement employee benefits plans and programs and under any long-term incentive awards in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plans or programs under which such benefits are provided.
The foregoing summary of the Change in Control Agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Change in Control Agreement, the form of which will appear as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed with respect to the period ending December 31, 2008.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
3
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
4
 

NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OCTOBER 16, 2008
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL REPORTS THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS OF $46 MILLION OR $0.14 PER SHARE
Quarter Characterized by Strong Capital Position and Solid Asset Quality
 People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) today announced net income of $46.0 million, or $0.14 per share, for the third quarter of 2008, compared to $43.0 million, or $0.13 per share, for the second quarter of 2008 and $57.6 million, or $0.20 per share, for the third quarter of 2007. Earnings for the second and third quarters of 2008 reflect continued low levels of net loan charge-offs and further benefit from previously announced cost-reduction initiatives.
BRIDGEPORT, CT.
People's United Financial completed its acquisition of Chittenden Corporation on January 1, 2008. Accordingly, People's United Financial's third quarter 2007 results do not include the results of Chittenden Corporation and are not directly comparable to the current quarter's earnings.
For the third quarter of 2008, return on average tangible assets was 0.99 percent and return on average tangible stockholders' equity was 5.0 percent, compared to 0.91 percent and 4.7 percent, respectively, for the second quarter of 2008.
The Board of Directors of People's United Financial declared a $0.15 per share quarterly dividend, payable November 15, 2008 to shareholders of record on November 1, 2008. Based on the closing stock price on October 15, 2008, the dividend yield on People's United Financial common stock is 3.9 percent.
President and Chief Executive Officer, Philip R. Sherringham stated, "Our strength and stability have clearly differentiated our bank in the wake of the current economic and financial sector turmoil. Our performance this quarter continues to be a reflection of our fortress balance sheet and continued strong asset quality, and was further bolstered by an improvement in the net interest margin."
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 3Q Earnings
Page 2
Sherringham added, "We continue to generate healthy loan growth across our core lending businesses. Our average commercial banking and home equity loan portfolios increased $146 million, or 6 percent annualized, from the second quarter of 2008."
Sherringham concluded, "We remain firmly committed to our goal of enhancing our premier regional banking franchise. While our strategic focus remains on growth through acquisitions, we continue to invest in our commercial, retail banking and wealth management businesses throughout New England. Our balance sheet continues to be funded almost entirely by deposits and stockholders' equity. Given the many challenges of today's environment, the strength of our capital and liquidity positions, asset quality and earnings set us apart from most in the industry."
"Key drivers of the company's performance this quarter were an increase in the net interest margin, expense control and ongoing strong asset quality," said Paul D. Burner, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "The 15 basis point improvement in the net interest margin from the second quarter of 2008 reflects the benefits from disciplined loan and deposit pricing. Non-interest expense decreased slightly from the second quarter of 2008, primarily reflecting the continued benefit from cost-savings initiatives announced earlier this year."
At September 30, 2008, non-performing assets totaled $91.4 million, a $5.0 million increase from June 30, 2008. Non-performing assets equaled 0.64 percent of total loans, REO and repossessed assets, compared to 0.60 percent at June 30, 2008. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans increased to 1.08 percent at September 30, 2008 compared to 1.06 percent at June 30, 2008.
Third quarter net loan charge-offs totaled $4.0 million compared to $2.4 million in the second quarter of 2008. Net loan charge-offs as a percent of average loans on an annualized basis were 0.11 percent in the third quarter of 2008 compared to 0.07 percent in this year's second quarter. The provision for loan losses this quarter reflects a $2.8 million increase in the allowance for loan losses to $154.5 million at September 30, 2008.
Commenting on asset quality, Burner stated, "While we expect the level of non-performing assets to fluctuate in response to changing economic and market conditions, we remain comfortable with the current levels and do not see any pervasive weakness in any sector of the loan portfolio. The ratio of non-performing loans to total loans was stable at 0.59 percent at September 30, 2008 and net loan charge-offs remain extremely low. We feel that the loan portfolio continues to benefit from our stringent underwriting standards."
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 3Q Earnings
Page 3
Conference Call
On October 17, 2008, at 11 a.m., Eastern Time, People's United Financial will host a conference call to discuss this earnings announcement. The call may be heard through by selecting "Investor Relations" in the "About People's" section on the home page, and then selecting "Conference Calls" in the "News and Events" section. Additional materials relating to the call may also be accessed at People's United Bank's web site. The call will be archived on the web site and available for approximately 90 days.
www.peoples.com
Fourth Quarter Earnings Release
People's United Financial expects to release its fourth quarter and full year 2008 earnings on January 22, 2009.
Selected Financial Terms
In addition to evaluating People's United Financial's results of operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), management routinely supplements this evaluation with an analysis of certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as the efficiency ratio. Management believes this non-GAAP financial measure provides information useful to investors in understanding People's United Financial's underlying operating performance and trends, and facilitates comparisons with the performance of other banks and thrifts.
The efficiency ratio, which represents an approximate measure of the cost required by People's United Financial to generate a dollar of revenue, is the ratio of total non-interest expense (excluding goodwill impairment charges, amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and fair value adjustments, losses on real estate assets and nonrecurring expenses) to net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (excluding fair value adjustments) plus total non-interest income (including the fully taxable equivalent adjustment on bank-owned life insurance income, and excluding gains and losses on sales of assets, other than residential mortgage loans, and nonrecurring income). People's United Financial generally considers an item of income or expense to be nonrecurring if it is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type incurred within the last two years and is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type reasonably expected to be incurred within the following two years. Management considers the efficiency ratio to be more representative of People's United Financial's ongoing operating efficiency, as the excluded items are generally related to external market conditions and non-routine transactions.
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 3Q Earnings
Page 4
3Q 2008 Financial Highlights
Summary
 
Commercial Banking
 
Retail & Small Business Banking
 
Wealth Management
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 3Q Earnings
Page 5
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $20 billion in assets, provides consumer and commercial banking services through a network of more than 300 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Maine and New York. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.
Certain statements contained in this release are forward-looking in nature. These include all statements about People's United Financial's plans, objectives, expectations and other statements that are not historical facts, and usually use words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe" and similar expressions. Such statements represent management's current beliefs, based upon information available at the time the statements are made, with regard to the matters addressed. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause People's United Financial's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements. Factors of particular importance to People's United Financial include, but are not limited to: (1) changes in general, national or regional economic conditions; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in loan default and charge-off rates; (4) changes in deposit levels; (5) changes in levels of income and expense in non-interest income and expense related activities; (6) residential mortgage and secondary market activity; (7) changes in accounting and regulatory guidance applicable to banks; (8) price levels and conditions in the public securities markets generally; (9) competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; and (10) the successful integration of Chittenden Corporation. People's United Financial does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
People's United Financial, Inc. acquired Chittenden Corporation on January 1, 2008. The acquisition
was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, financial data for periods prior
to the acquisition date do not include Chittenden Corporation.
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTSContinued
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTSContinued
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
AVERAGE BALANCE, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS (1)
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
AVERAGE BALANCE, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS (1)
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-PERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
 
 
PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
 
NET LOAN CHARGE-OFFS (RECOVERIES)
 
 


