FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20080125135250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On January 25, 2008, People's United Financial, Inc. issued a press release reporting the death of John A. Klein, its President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of its Board of Directors.
A copy of the press release reporting Mr. Klein's death is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) The following Exhibit is filed herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JANUARY 25, 2008
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL, INC. ANNOUNCES DEATH OF JOHN A. KLEIN, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 People's United Financial, Inc. (Nasdaq: PBCT) is saddened to announce the death of its President, Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors, John A. Klein. Mr. Klein, who had been battling cancer since 2004, succumbed earlier today to the disease. He is survived by his wife, Carla Klein; his daughter, Kristen Klein Chiodo; and his son, Eric Klein.
BRIDGEPORT, CT.
"I deeply regret the loss of my long-time friend and colleague," said George P. Carter, Chairman of the Board of Directors. "John had an extraordinary career with People's United, spanning more than 35 years," Carter said. "I feel truly privileged to have had the opportunity to serve as a member of the Board of Directors during John's tenure."
Philip R. Sherringham, who was appointed Acting President and Chief Executive Officer in November when Mr. Klein took a leave of absence, will continue to serve in those capacities.
"John's vision as President and Chief Executive Officer has been instrumental in the company's success over the course of his eight-year tenure," Sherringham said. "I know that the entire People's United team is committed to building upon the successes that John's leadership has afforded us.
"We all will miss John for the leader he was, but mostly we will miss him as our friend," Sherringham said. "Our deepest sympathies go out to his family."


