FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20080207162459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c) On February 6, 2008, People's United Financial, Inc. issued a press release announcing the appointment of Philip R. Sherringham as President and Chief Executive Officer of the company. Mr. Sherringham had served as Acting President and Chief Executive Officer since November 9, 2007. He first joined People's United in April 2003 as Chief Financial Officer and will continue to serve in that capacity on an interim basis, pending the hiring of a replacement. Before joining People's United, Mr. Sherringham served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of United California Bank in Los Angeles. Mr. Sherringham is 54 years old.
(d) On February 6, 2008, the Board of Directors of People's United appointed Mr. Sherringham to the People's United board of directors, to fill the vacancy created by the recent death of John A. Klein. Mr. Sherringham's term of office will expire at the 2008 annual meeting of People's United shareholders. Mr. Sherringham is a member of the Executive Committee of the board.
A copy of the press release announcing the above-referenced actions is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) The following Exhibit is filed herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 6, 2008
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL APPOINTS PHILIP R. SHERRINGHAM AS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRESIDENT
People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) announced today that the Board of Directors has appointed Philip R. Sherringham as Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of the board of the company. Sherringham had assumed the roles of acting-CEO and President in November when former CEO and President John A. Klein announced a leave of absence to recover from cancer surgery. Klein succumbed to the disease on January 25.
BRIDGEPORT, CT 
"In his former role as Chief Financial Officer and acting Chief Executive Officer and President, Philip was instrumental in both shaping and helping execute the bank's successful strategy over the past five years," said George P. Carter, Chairman of the Board of Directors of People's United Financial. "In John's absence, Philip took leadership in closing the acquisition of the Chittenden Corporation, putting in place the new leadership team, and beginning the integration activities essential to building the Northeast's premier regional banking company. We look forward to Philip's leadership of People's United as he continues John's legacy while bringing his own unique perspective, experience and talents to the position."
Prior to joining People's United in 2003, Sherringham served as Executive Vice President and CFO of United California Bank in Los Angeles. Previously, he was CFO at Citadel/Fidelity Federal Bank in Glendale, California from 1991 to 1993, and prior to that was Treasurer at Los Angeles-based CalFed Inc./California Federal Bank from 1989 to 1991.
Sherringham has an undergraduate degree from Paris University and is a graduate of Hautes Etudes Commerciales in Paris. He completed the International Management Program offered in cooperation by New York University, the London Business School and Hautes Etudes Commerciales.
People's United will launch a search for a new CFO immediately; Sherringham will continue in the role until the new CFO is hired.
People's United Financial, the largest New England-based banking company, has over $21 billion in assets and provides consumer and commercial banking services through a network of more than 300 branches in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine and New York. People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.


