FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20080122122149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On January 17, 2008, the Board of Directors of People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") approved amendments to the Company's Code of Conduct to (a) expand the scope of the Code of Conduct to all employees of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries in light of the completion of the merger of Chittenden Corporation with and into the Company, and (b) to delete provisions contained in the Code of Conduct relating to the Company's insider trading rules. The Company's Board of Directors has approved a separate, more comprehensive policy applicable to all employees relating to insider trading rules. Such policy, and the Company's Code of Conduct, will be posted on the Company's website at .
www.peoples.com
A copy of the Code of Conduct as amended is attached hereto as Exhibit 14 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) The following Exhibit is filed herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
At People's United, we value our reputation for honesty and ethical behavior. This reputation depends on all of us following the highest ethical standards when we deal with our customers, potential customers, other employees, vendors and regulators.
The purpose of this Code of Conduct is to help you understand what People's United expects of you concerning ethical conduct in the workplace.
This Code of Conduct will:
 
 
 
 
No policy can identify every possible situation that may arise involving ethical behavior or conflicts of interest. We expect that you will use your best judgment in applying the requirements of this Code to your particular situation.
If you have any question about what this Code means or how it should be interpreted, you should discuss the matter with your manager, your manager's supervisor, your Senior Officer or contact People's United Bank's Legal Department.
We expect every employee to read, understand, and comply with both the spirit and the letter of this Code. You will be asked annually to certify that you have read and agree to abide by this Code, and that you have disclosed any activities that might violate this Code.
 
This Code applies to all employees, officers and Directors of People's United. The Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer/Controller are also subject to the "Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers of People's United Financial, Inc." A copy of the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers is posted on People's United Bank's public website.
 
Company and Bank Directors, and certain other officers and employees may also be subject to additional disclosure and certification requirements concerning conflicts of interest, and other matters related to their positions at People's United. These additional requirements supplement the requirements of this Code, but are not part of this Code.
In addition to this Code, employees are expected to abide by their Bank's human resource policies. Employees must also follow any specific divisional or departmental policies that apply to them.
 
This Code is posted on People's United Bank's external website at "Investor Relations/Corporate Governance/Management".
 
Start with your manager. If you don't wish to discuss your question with your manager, you may contact your manager's supervisor, your Senior Officer, or People's United Bank's Legal Department. You may also contact People's United's ethics hotline, which is maintained by an independent third party, Ethicspoint. The toll-free telephone number for Ethicspoint is 1-800-329-5905 or you can contact Ethicspoint on-line at .
www.ethicspoint.com
 
In this Code, some words have defined meanings:
means any of the following banks: People's United Bank, Chittenden Trust Company (Chittenden Bank), The Bank of Western Massachusetts, Flagship Bank and Trust Company, Maine Bank and Trust Company, Merrill Merchants Bank or Ocean Bank. The term also includes any subsidiary of any of these banks.
"Bank"
means this Code of Conduct.
"Code"
means People's United Financial, Inc.
"Company"
means any Senior Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, the President and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
"Executive Officer"
means ownership of, investment in, material participation in the conduct of, or any other material financial interest in, a business. It does not include an investment in the stock or debt of a publicly-traded company. Examples include, but are not limited to, ownership of a sole-proprietorship; ownership of debt or stock in a corporation that is not publicly-traded; and membership or investment in a limited liability company, limited liability partnership, partnership, or corporation.
"Outside Business Activity"
 
means People's United Financial, Inc. and all of its direct or indirect subsidiaries, including People's United Bank, Chittenden Trust Company (Chittenden Bank), The Bank of Western Massachusetts, Flagship Bank and Trust Company, Maine Bank and Trust Company, Merrill Merchants Bank and Ocean Bank, and their subsidiaries.
"People's United"
means a natural person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, trust, association, joint venture, sole proprietorship or any other business entity.
"Person"
" means the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Accounting Officer/Controller of the Company.
Senior Financial Officer"
means the President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or First Vice President of a Bank.
"Senior Officer"
means a Person who provides goods or services to People's United, including providers of professional services, such as attorneys, accountants, engineers and consultants.
"Vendor"
 
This Code is intended to describe People's United's standards for ethical behavior in the workplace, including standards with respect to compliance with law and regulation, actual or potential conflicts of interest, fairness, use of People's United or Bank customer information, and public and financial disclosure. This Code describes each of these and tells you how to report any concerns that you may have. People's United also has a separate policy that addresses insider trading rules.
 
You have the responsibility to act in People's United's best interest when you deal with customers, other employees, Vendors and regulators. A conflict of interest exists whenever your private interests or activities interfere, or even appear to interfere, with your duty to act in People's United's best interest.
Conflicts of interest may occur because of an activity or interest that you are involved in directly or because of an activity or interest of another person, such as a friend or a member of your family, that benefits you. You must disclose any conflict of interest, even if it arises because of the activity of a member of your family or another person.
 
The following are some examples of actual or potential conflicts of interest. This list is not intended to include every possible conflict of interest that may arise.
Sometimes, what appears to be a conflict of interest that would otherwise be prohibited is permissible. You must, however, make full disclosure of any potential conflict in writing and get written permission to engage in the activity from your Senior Officer.
You should use your best judgment about whether your particular situation involves a conflict of interest under this Code. You should contact your manager, your manager's supervisor, your Senior Officer or the People's United Bank Legal Department if you have any questions or concerns.
If you have any doubts about a particular circumstance or relationship, People's United encourages you to contact one of these individuals or the Legal Department in advance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
People's United expects all individuals affiliated with People's United to deal fairly and honestly with our customers and potential customers, fellow employees, Vendors and regulators. This means that you are expected to comply fully with all applicable laws and regulations, including those prohibiting discrimination, unequal treatment and unfair trade practices. It also means that you may not allow personal relationships, expectation of personal benefit or personal bias to influence your treatment of customers, employees or Vendors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
People's United is committed to ensuring that all public disclosures, including financial disclosures filed with the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market, are complete, timely and accurate and that they are provided in a manner that is fair and understandable. You are expected to promote this commitment by using your best efforts to ensure that information that you compile or maintain is accurate and complete, and that you comply with People's United's internal and financial control processes.
Any concerns about the adequacy of People's United's accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters should be reported promptly. Please see Section 7a of this Code for more information about how to report concerns or complaints.
 
You are expected to report promptly any concerns you have about illegal or unethical behavior, conflicts of interest, financial and public disclosure, misuse of customer information or any other violation or suspected violation of this Code. In thinking about whether a situation should be reported, you should ask yourself:
 
 
 
You may report concerns to your manager, your manager's supervisor, or to your Senior Officer. You may also report to your Bank's Security Department, People's United Bank's Audit Department or People's United Bank's Legal Department.
If you are uncomfortable speaking to someone at People's United about your concerns, you may contact Peoples' United's ethics hotline, which is maintained by an independent third party, Ethicspoint. The toll-free number for Ethicspoint is 1-800-329-5905 or you can contact them on the web at .
www.ethicspoint.com
Complaints can be made anonymously; however, you are encouraged to identify yourself in case additional facts are needed in order to allow People's United to investigate the matter fully.
People's United will not retaliate against or discipline anyone because he or she has made a good faith complaint or report concerning illegal or unethical conduct.
 
a. Reporting Concerns about Accounting, Internal Accounting Controls or Auditing Matters.
Concerns or complaints about the accuracy or adequacy of People's United's or your Bank's accounting processes, internal accounting controls or auditing processes should be reported promptly. Complaints can be made to the People's United Bank Audit Department, People's United Bank's Legal Department or to your Senior Officer.
You may also contact the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors directly by writing to its Chairman, George P. Carter, People's United Bank, 850 Main Street, Bridgeport, CT 06604.
Complaints can also be made to People's United's ethics hotline, which is maintained by an independent third party, Ethicspoint. The toll-free number for Ethicspoint is 1-800-329-5905, or you can contact them on-line at .
www.ethicspoint.com
Any complaints received will be reported to the Directors' Audit Committee at its next scheduled meeting. Complaints can be made anonymously; however, you are encouraged to identify yourself in case additional facts are needed in order to allow People's United to investigate the matter fully.
People's United will not retaliate against or discipline anyone because he or she has made a good faith complaint or report about accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters.
 
Any complaint or report made under this Code will be investigated by appropriate internal personnel, which may include departmental personnel, and/or Security, Audit, Legal and Human Resources staff at your Bank or People's United Bank. Where appropriate, information concerning the complaint will be referred to the Company's Audit Committee and may also be reported to regulatory or legal authorities.
 
Violations of this Code may result in disciplinary action, including any of the following: written warning, demotion or salary reduction, suspension with or without pay, or termination for cause. The type of disciplinary action imposed will be determined based on an evaluation of all of the following circumstances: whether the violation was intentional; whether the individual should reasonably have known that his or her conduct violated the Code; whether the violation exposed People's United or your Bank to legal, operational, credit or reputational risk and if so, the extent of such risk; and People's United's past practices with respect to similar violations.
People's United will not retaliate against or discipline anyone because he or she has made a good faith complaint or report under this Code.
 
Of course, anyone who knowingly makes a false accusation of wrongdoing will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
 
You will be required to certify your compliance with this Code each year and to disclose promptly in writing all current or potential conflicts of interest, or any situation that creates the appearance of a conflict of interest. Company and Bank Directors and certain other officers and employees may also be asked to provide additional certifications concerning conflicts of interest and other matters related to their positions at People's United.
 
People's United Bank's Internal Auditor and the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors will review all disclosures made under this Code, evaluate whether they are within the scope of this Code, and take such action as they believe is appropriate. Action may include making reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee will report as necessary to the Board of Directors.
 
Waivers of the provisions of this Code for employees other than Executive Officers and Senior Financial Officers may be made only with the written approval of an Executive Officer and with the consent of the Company's General Counsel and will be reported to the Company's Directors' Audit Committee.
Waivers involving Executive Officers, Company Directors and Senior Financial Officers are subject to special rules and may be made only with the approval of the Company's Board of Directors. Any such waivers will be publicly disclosed in accordance with applicable law and NASDAQ listing requirements.
 


