FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20090417084201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 16, 2009, People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2009. A copy of that press release is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 2.02 (including the Exhibit hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
The Compensation and Nominating Committee of the Company's Board of Directors recently approved a change in the methodology used for calculating the amount payable pursuant to long-term cash bonus (LTIP Bonus) awards. For 2009 and future years, this amount will be determined by reference to total shareholder return over a specified period rather than by reference to a performance measure based on earnings per share. Total shareholder return, or TSR, is a measure which combines share price appreciation and dividends paid over a specified period to show the total economic return on a share of stock.
The amount paid out pursuant to an LTIP Bonus award will continue to be determined over a three-year performance cycle. One-third of the payout will depend on the Company's TSR for the three-year period ending on December 31 of the first year of the applicable performance cycle; one-third will depend on the Company's TSR for the three-year period ending on December 31 of the second year of the applicable performance cycle; and one-third will depend on the Company's TSR for the three-year period ending on the last day of the applicable performance cycle.
The Company's TSR for a given measurement period will be assigned a percentile ranking in comparison to the TSR results for members of a designated peer group over the same period. The amount allocated in a given year for future payment to the recipient of an LTIP Bonus will be determined by the Company's percentile ranking, with a maximum allocation being made if the Company's TSR is in the 75
th
percentile of the peer group, and no allocation being made if the Company's TSR is below the 25
th
percentile of the peer group.
Amounts previously allocated for payment pursuant to LTIP Bonus awards made with respect to the 2007-2009 performance cycle and for the 2008-2010 performance cycle (i.e., amounts based on Company performance in 2007 and 2008) were calculated using an earnings-per-share-based methodology. These amounts will not be affected by the changes described above. Amounts to be allocated for these LTIP Bonuses with respect to 2009 (in the case of the 2007-2009 and the 2008-2010 performance cycles) and for 2010 (in the case of the 2008-2010 performance cycle) will be determined by using the new TSR-based methodology.
 
The change in methodology is expected to result in better alignment of the objectives of the LTIP Bonus with the Company's long-term financial results and shareholder interests.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
N E W S    R E L E A S E
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
APRIL 16, 2009
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL REPORTS FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS OF $27 MILLION OR $0.08 PER SHARE AND INCREASES DIVIDEND
 People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) today announced net income of $26.7 million, or $0.08 per share, for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $15.1 million, or $0.05 per share, for the first quarter of 2008. The company's Board of Directors voted to increase the annual common stock dividend by $0.01 per share, resulting in a quarterly dividend rate of $0.1525 per share. The dividend is payable May 15, 2009 to shareholders of record on May 1, 2009. Based on the closing stock price on April 15, 2009, the dividend yield on People's United Financial common stock is 3.5 percent.
BRIDGEPORT, CT.
First quarter 2009 earnings reflect expected margin pressure associated with the historically low interest rate environment and reduced fee income stemming from continued uncertainty in the equity markets and broader economic weakness. For the first quarter of 2009, return on average tangible assets was 0.57 percent and return on average tangible stockholders' equity was 2.9 percent, compared to 0.31 percent and 1.6 percent, respectively, for the first quarter of 2008. At March 31, 2009, People's United Financial's tangible equity ratio was 19.0 percent.
President and Chief Executive Officer, Philip R. Sherringham stated, "Our performance in the first quarter of 2009 continues to reflect the difficult economic environment, specifically as it relates to the current level of interest rates and our asset-sensitive balance sheet. However, the key elements of our financial position  strong asset quality, predicated on conservative underwriting standards, and prudent management of our excess capital  have served us well in these challenging times. Modest levels of net loan charge-offs and year-over-year double-digit growth in our core lending businesses continue to differentiate us from most in the banking sector. Despite an increase in non-performing assets during the quarter as the economy continued to deteriorate, we expect that any potential losses attributable to those assets will be limited."
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 2
 
Sherringham continued, "While we are well-positioned to benefit from future increases in interest rates given our asset-sensitive balance sheet, the current rate environment continues to pressure our net interest margin. Our strategic focus remains on expansion through acquisitions even as we continue to pursue organic growth throughout our franchise. The strength of our capital and liquidity, asset quality and earnings, as well as the fact that our balance sheet continues to be funded almost entirely by deposits and stockholders' equity, are hallmarks that set us apart from most in the industry."
Commenting on acquisitions, Sherringham added, "We continue to weigh all of our options in determining the most attractive use of our capital as a means of delivering long-term shareholder value. As we have said previously, we still feel it is best to exercise patience as we work toward identifying and executing an acquisition that will enhance the long-term profitability of the company. In addition, our dividend continues to be an appropriate avenue to enhance shareholder returns; in fact, our strong capital position afforded us the ability to increase it for the 17
th
consecutive year."
"Key drivers of the company's performance this quarter were healthy loan growth across our core lending businesses and continued low levels of net loan charge-offs, somewhat offset by continued margin pressure and lower fee income," said Paul D. Burner, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "Average commercial banking loans, excluding shared national credits, increased $220 million, or 11 percent annualized, while our home equity loan portfolio increased $71 million, or 15 percent annualized, from the fourth quarter of 2008. As expected, the net interest margin decreased from the fourth quarter of 2008 due to the decline in interest rates."
Commenting on asset quality, Burner stated, "A single shared national credit accounted for $16 million, or 38 percent, of the increase in our non-performing loans this quarter. Another 43 percent of the increase was attributable to residential mortgage loans, which is a reflection of higher levels of unemployment across our franchise. Notwithstanding the increase in non-performing assets, our continued low level of net loan charge-offs in this current economic environment is a testament to our disciplined underwriting standards."
First quarter net loan charge-offs totaled $6.4 million compared to $5.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. Net loan charge-offs as a percent of average loans on an annualized basis were 0.18 percent in the first quarter of 2009 compared to 0.16 percent in the prior year's fourth quarter. The provision for loan losses in the first quarter of 2009 reflects a $1.5 million increase in the allowance for loan losses to $159.0 million at March 31, 2009.
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 3
 
At March 31, 2009, non-performing loans totaled $126.1 million and the ratio of non-performing loans to total loans was 0.86 percent, compared to $84.3 million and 0.58 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2008. Non-performing assets totaled $142.0 million at March 31, 2009, a $48.3 million increase from December 31, 2008. Non-performing assets equaled 0.97 percent of total loans, REO and repossessed assets at March 31, 2009 compared to 0.64 percent at December 31, 2008. At March 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.09 percent and as a percentage of non-performing loans was 126 percent, compared to 1.08 percent and 187 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2008.
Conference Call
On April 17, 2009, at 11 a.m., Eastern Time, People's United Financial will host a conference call to discuss this earnings announcement. The call may be heard through by selecting "Investor Relations" in the "About People's" section on the home page, and then selecting "Conference Calls" in the "News and Events" section. Additional materials relating to the call may also be accessed at People's United Bank's web site. The call will be archived on the web site and available for approximately 90 days.
www.peoples.com
Selected Financial Terms
In addition to evaluating People's United Financial's results of operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), management routinely supplements this evaluation with an analysis of certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as the efficiency ratio. Management believes this non-GAAP financial measure provides information useful to investors in understanding People's United Financial's underlying operating performance and trends, and facilitates comparisons with the performance of other banks and thrifts. Further, the efficiency ratio is used by management in its assessment of financial performance specifically as it relates to non-interest expense control.
The efficiency ratio, which represents an approximate measure of the cost required by People's United Financial to generate a dollar of revenue, is the ratio of total non-interest expense (excluding goodwill impairment charges, amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and fair value adjustments, losses on real estate assets and nonrecurring expenses) to net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (excluding fair value adjustments) plus total non-interest income (including the fully taxable equivalent adjustment on bank-owned life insurance income, and excluding gains and losses on sales of assets, other than residential mortgage loans, and nonrecurring income). People's United Financial generally considers an item of income or expense to be nonrecurring if it is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type incurred within the last two years and is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type reasonably expected to be incurred within the following two years.
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 4
 
1Q 2009 Financial Highlights
Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Banking
 
 
 
 
Retail & Small Business Banking
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 5
 
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $20 billion in assets, provides commercial banking, retail and small business banking, and wealth management services through a network of more than 300 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts and New York. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.
Certain statements contained in this release are forward-looking in nature. These include all statements about People's United Financial's plans, objectives, expectations and other statements that are not historical facts, and usually use words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe" and similar expressions. Such statements represent management's current beliefs, based upon information available at the time the statements are made, with regard to the matters addressed. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause People's United Financial's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements. Factors of particular importance to People's United Financial include, but are not limited to: (1) changes in general, national or regional economic conditions; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in loan default and charge-off rates; (4) changes in deposit levels; (5) changes in levels of income and expense in non-interest income and expense related activities; (6) residential mortgage and secondary market activity; (7) changes in accounting and regulatory guidance applicable to banks; (8) price levels and conditions in the public securities markets generally; (9) competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; and (10) the successful completion of the integration of Chittenden Corporation. People's United Financial does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Access Information About People's United Financial on the World Wide Web at
www.peoples.com.
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - Continued
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS (1)
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-PERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
NET LOAN CHARGE-OFFS (RECOVERIES)
 
 


