FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20090202155538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) By agreement dated January 26, 2009, People's United Bank and William T. Kosturko have mutually agreed that Mr. Kosturko's employment will end February 2, 2009. Mr. Kosturko, who served for many years as Executive Vice President and General Counsel to the Bank, has been on leave of absence from his position since early 2008.
(e) The Bank has agreed to make a severance payment to Mr. Kosturko in the amount of $1.88 million in connection with the termination of his employment. Mr. Kosturko will also be entitled to receive 12 months of outplacement services at the Bank's expense. In exchange, Mr. Kosturko will deliver a general release of claims to the Bank, will refrain for a period of one year from inducing or encouraging any employee of the Bank to terminate his or her relationship with the Bank, and will cooperate with reasonable requests from the Bank with respect to matters relating to his duties as an executive officer of the Bank. Mr. Kosturko will also be entitled to receive all accrued benefits payable to him pursuant to the terms of various Bank-sponsored benefit plans in which he was eligible to participate, in accordance with the terms of such plans.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


