FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20101203090247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 2, 2010, People's United Financial, Inc. ("People's United") issued a press release announcing the merger consideration to be paid to former stockholders of Smithtown Bancorp, Inc. ("Smithtown") as a result of the merger of Smithtown with and into People's United effective November 30, 2010. The allocation of the merger consideration reflects the final results of elections submitted by Smithtown stockholders and the application of the proration procedures described in the merger agreement.
A copy of a press release announcing the foregoing is being filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
December 2, 2010
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL, INC. ANNOUNCES FINAL RESULTS OF ELECTIONS REGARDING SMITHTOWN BANCORP MERGER CONSIDERATION
- People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) today announced the merger consideration to be received by Smithtown shareholders in People's United Financial's acquisition of Smithtown Bancorp, Inc., which was completed on November 30, 2010.
BRIDGEPORT, CT
Based on final election results and applying the proration provisions set forth in the merger agreement, Smithtown shareholders will receive the following merger consideration:
 
 
 
Under the merger agreement, fractional shares of People's United Financial common stock will not be issued. Instead, Smithtown shareholders will receive cash based on the average closing price of People's United Financial common stock of $12.404 for the five full consecutive trading days ended November 29, 2010.
Of the 14,967,508 shares of Smithtown common stock outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the merger:
 
 
 
The total consideration paid by People's United Financial was approximately $56.4 million, which was comprised of approximately 2.1 million shares of common stock valued at $26.5 million; and $29.9 million in cash.
People's United Financial, Inc., a diversified financial services company with approximately $25 billion in assets, provides consumer, commercial and wealth management services through its subsidiary, People's United Bank, with nearly 340 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Maine and New York. Through additional subsidiaries, People's United Bank provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.


