FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20100715211016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 15, 2010, People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2010. A copy of that press release is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 2.02 (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
 
(a) The Bylaws of the Company have been amended, effective July 15, 2010, in the following respects:
 
 
A copy of these amendments is being filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2.
 
The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a policy requiring a Director to tender his or her resignation as a member of the Board if he or she fails to receive the required number of votes for re-election. This policy was adopted in connection with the amendment of Article II, Section 9 of the Company's Bylaws as described in Item 5.03 above.
A copy of the resignation policy is being filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Article II of the Bylaws of People's United Financial, Inc. has been amended, effective July 15, 2010 to revise Sections 9 and 12, respectively, to read as follows:
SECTION 9. VOTING; VOTING OF SHARES IN THE NAME OF TWO OR MORE PERSONS. Except for the election of directors or as otherwise provided by applicable law or regulation, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, at all meetings of shareholders, all matters shall be determined by a vote of the holders of a majority of the number of votes eligible to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation present and entitled to vote thereat.
A nominee for director shall be elected to the Board if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of shareholders for which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice that a shareholder has nominated a person for election to the Board in compliance with the advance notice provisions for shareholder nominees for director set forth in Article III, Section 5.06 of the Certificate of Incorporation and Article II, Section 12 of these Bylaws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such shareholder on or before the record date for such meeting. If directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, shareholders shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee.
If ownership of a share of voting stock of the Corporation stands in the name of two or more persons, in the absence of written directions to the Corporation to the contrary, any one or more of such shareholders may cast, in person or by proxy, all votes to which such ownership is entitled. If an attempt is made to cast conflicting votes by the several persons in whose names shares of stock stand, the vote or votes to which those persons are entitled shall be cast as directed by a majority of those holding such stock and present, in person or by proxy, at such meeting. If such conflicting votes are evenly split on any particular matter, each faction may vote the securities in question proportionally, or any person voting the shares, or a beneficiary, if any, may apply to the Court of Chancery of Delaware or such other court as may have jurisdiction to appoint an additional person to act with the persons so voting the shares, which shall then be voted as determined by a majority of such persons and the person appointed by the Court.
 
 
SECTION 12. PROCEDURE FOR NOMINATIONS. Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 5.06 of the Certificate of Incorporation (and, in the case of a nomination submitted by a shareholder, in accordance with the provisions of this Section 12) shall be eligible for election as Directors. Subject to the provisions thereof, the Compensation and
Nominating Committee shall select, and recommend to the Board for its approval, nominees for election as directors. Except in the case of a nominee substituted as a result of the death, incapacity, withdrawal or other inability to serve of a nominee, the Compensation and Nominating Committee shall, upon the approval of the Board, deliver written nominations to the Secretary at least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the date of the annual meeting. No nominations for directors except those made by the Compensation and Nominating Committee and approved by the Board shall be voted upon at the annual meeting of shareholders, unless other nominations by shareholders are made in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.06 of the Certificate of Incorporation.
The written notice of a shareholder's intent to make a nomination pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.06 of the Certificate of Incorporation shall include, in addition to the information required by such section, a statement whether the person to be nominated, if elected, intends to tender, promptly following such person's election or re-election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon such person's failure to receive the required vote for re-election at the next meeting at which such person would face re-election and upon acceptance of such resignation by the Board, in accordance with the Corporation's Board Policy on Director Elections.
A complete copy of the Bylaws, reflecting the foregoing amendments, will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending June 30, 2010.

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 15, 2010
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL REPORTS SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS OF $16 MILLION OR $0.04 PER SHARE
Realizes operating earnings of $0.09 per share, excluding one-time costs
Announces acquisitions of Smithtown Bancorp and LSB Corporation
 People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) today announced net income of $16.0 million, or $0.04 per share, for the second quarter of 2010, compared to $13.6 million, or $0.04 per share, for the first quarter of 2010, and $25.3 million, or $0.08 per share, for the second quarter of 2009. Included in both this quarter's and first quarter's results are pre-tax merger-related, system conversion and one-time expenses totaling $23.2 million and $23.4 million, respectively. Excluding the effect of these items, net income would have been $31.8 million, or $0.09 per share, for the second quarter of 2010 and $29.2 million, or $0.08 per share, for the first quarter of 2010.
BRIDGEPORT, CT.
As previously reported, People's United Financial completed its acquisitions of Financial Federal Corporation on February 19, 2010 and Butler Bank on April 16, 2010. Accordingly, Financial Federal's and Butler Bank's results of operations are included as of the respective acquisition dates, and prior period results have not been restated to include Financial Federal and Butler Bank.
The Board of Directors of People's United Financial declared a $0.1550 per share quarterly dividend, payable August 15, 2010 to shareholders of record on August 1, 2010. Based on the closing stock price on July 14, 2010, the dividend yield on People's United Financial common stock is 4.4 percent.
People's United Financial also announced today definitive agreements to acquire Smithtown Bancorp, Inc. based in Hauppauge, New York, and LSB Corporation based in North Andover, Massachusetts. Further information regarding these acquisitions is included in a separate release.
"The announcement today of the acquisition of two financial institutions within markets contiguous to our existing footprint, while at the same time reporting another solid quarter of operating results, is a testament to the strong financial position of People's United Financial," stated Jack Barnes, interim President and Chief Executive Officer. "The strength of our capital and liquidity, asset quality and earnings, as well as the fact that our balance sheet remains funded almost entirely by deposits and stockholders' equity, continue to set us apart from most in the industry."
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 2Q Earnings
Page 2
Barnes added, "While we continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, we are actively pursuing other capital deployment activities. In this regard, we plan to open two new branches in downtown Boston  one in the Prudential Center and one in the Financial District  before year end, thereby providing an important extension to our growing footprint in the greater Boston area. Further, during the second quarter we repurchased 3.7 million shares of our common stock for approximately $52 million."
Barnes concluded, "In connection with the final phase of our core systems conversion, which is scheduled to be completed this weekend, we have begun the process of rebranding our branches in Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Maine to People's United Bank. We are pleased to have reached this milestone, which will provide all of our customers with the added convenience of being able to bank seamlessly at any of our nearly 300 branches along with the instant recognition of the People's United Bank name on branches from Bangor, Maine to Scarsdale, New York."
"On an operating basis, excluding merger-related, system conversion and one-time expenses, earnings were $31.8 million, or 9 cents per share this quarter," said Paul D. Burner, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "Significant drivers of the company's performance this quarter were an improvement in the net interest margin and modest loan growth across our strategic lending businesses, partially offset by higher net loan charge-offs. The net interest margin improved 21 basis points to 3.68 percent, primarily reflecting the benefit of a full quarter of Financial Federal. A single non-performing commercial loan accounted for $6.0 million, or 72 percent, of the quarterly increase in net loan charge-offs."
Commenting on asset quality, Burner continued, "Loans acquired in connection with the Financial Federal and Butler Bank acquisitions have been recorded at fair value, including a reduction for estimated credit losses, and without carryover of the respective portfolio's historical allowance for loan losses. As such, selected asset quality metrics have been highlighted to distinguish between the originated' portfolio and the acquired' portfolios. For the originated loan portfolio, representing all loans other than those acquired in the Financial Federal and Butler Bank transactions, non-performing loans totaled $219.7 million at June 30, 2010, and the ratio of non-performing loans to originated loans was 1.56 percent, compared to $192.3 million and 1.36 percent, respectively, at March 31, 2010. Non-performing loans in the acquired loan portfolios, which represent those loans acquired in the Financial Federal and Butler Bank transactions that meet our definition of non-performing but for which the risk of loss has already been considered by virtue of our estimate of acquisition-date fair value and/or the existence of an FDIC loss-share agreement, totaled $60.1 million at June 30, 2010."
Non-performing assets totaled $284.5 million at June 30, 2010, a $37.0 million increase from March 31, 2010, of which $13.1 million is attributable to REO acquired in connection with the Butler Bank acquisition. Non-performing assets equaled 2.01 percent of originated loans, REO and repossessed assets at June 30, 2010 compared to 1.74 percent at March 31, 2010. At June 30, 2010, the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of originated loans was 1.23 percent and as a percentage of non-performing originated loans was 79 percent, compared to 1.22 percent and 90 percent, respectively, at March 31, 2010.
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 2Q Earnings
Page 3
Second quarter net loan charge-offs totaled $17.8 million compared to $9.5 million in the first quarter of 2010. Net loan charge-offs as a percent of average loans on an annualized basis were 0.46 percent in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 0.26 percent in this year's first quarter. The level of the allowance for loan losses is unchanged from March 31, 2010.
In the second quarter of 2010, return on average tangible assets was 0.32 percent and return on average tangible stockholders' equity was 1.7 percent, compared to 0.28 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively, for the first quarter of 2010. At June 30, 2010, People's United Financial's tangible equity ratio stood at 18.0 percent.
Conference Call
On July 16, 2010, at 11 a.m., Eastern Time, People's United Financial will host a conference call to discuss this earnings announcement and our acquisition announcements. The call may be heard through by selecting "Investor Relations" in the "About Us" section on the home page, and then selecting "Conference Calls" in the "News and Events" section. Additional materials relating to the call may also be accessed at People's United Bank's web site. The call will be archived on the web site and available for approximately 90 days.
www.peoples.com
Selected Financial Terms
In addition to evaluating People's United Financial's results of operations in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), management routinely supplements this evaluation with an analysis of certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as the efficiency and tangible equity ratios, and tangible book value per share. Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding People's United Financial's underlying operating performance and trends, and facilitates comparisons with the performance of other banks and thrifts. Further, the efficiency ratio is used by management in its assessment of financial performance specifically as it relates to non-interest expense control, while the tangible equity ratio and tangible book value per share are used to analyze the relative strength of People's United Financial's capital position.
The efficiency ratio, which represents an approximate measure of the cost required by People's United Financial to generate a dollar of revenue, is the ratio of (i) total non-interest expense (excluding goodwill impairment charges, amortization of other acquisition-related intangibles and fair value adjustments, losses on real estate assets and non-recurring expenses) (the numerator) to (ii) net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (excluding fair value adjustments) plus total non-interest income (including the fully taxable equivalent adjustment on bank-owned life insurance income, and excluding gains and losses on sales of assets, other than residential mortgage loans, and non-recurring income) (the denominator). People's United Financial generally considers an item of income or expense to be non-recurring if it is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type incurred within the last two years and is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type reasonably expected to be incurred within the following two years.
The tangible equity ratio is the ratio of (i) tangible stockholders' equity (total stockholders' equity less goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles) (the numerator) to (ii) tangible assets (total assets less goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles) (the denominator). Tangible book value per share is calculated by dividing tangible stockholders' equity by common shares outstanding (total common shares issued, less common shares classified as treasury shares and unallocated ESOP common shares).
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 2Q Earnings
Page 4
2Q 2010 Financial Highlights
Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Banking
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 2Q Earnings
Page 5
Retail & Small Business Banking
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management
 
 
 
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $22 billion in assets, provides commercial banking, retail and small business banking, and wealth management services through a network of nearly 300 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts and New York. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.
Certain statements contained in this release are forward-looking in nature. These include all statements about People's United Financial's plans, objectives, expectations and other statements that are not historical facts, and usually use words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe" and similar expressions. Such statements represent management's current beliefs, based upon information available at the time the statements are made, with regard to the matters addressed. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause People's United Financial's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements. Factors of particular importance to People's United Financial include, but are not limited to: (1) changes in general, national or regional economic conditions; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in loan default and charge-off rates; (4) changes in deposit levels; (5) changes in levels of income and expense in non-interest income and expense related activities; (6) residential mortgage and secondary market activity; (7) changes in accounting and regulatory guidance applicable to banks; (8) price levels and conditions in the public securities markets generally; (9) competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; (10) the successful integration of acquired companies; (11) success in addressing management succession issues in a timely and effective manner; and (12) possible changes in regulation resulting from or relating to the pending financial reform legislation. People's United Financial does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
People's United Financial acquired Financial Federal Corporation on February 19, 2010 and Butler Bank on April 16, 2010. The acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, Financial Federal and Butler Bank results of operations are included as of the respective acquisition dates, and prior period results have not been restated to include Financial Federal and Butler Bank.
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - Continued
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - Continued
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
(1)
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
(1)
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-PERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
NET LOAN CHARGE-OFFS
 
 

In accordance with the Corporation's Bylaws, if no shareholder gives notice of an intention to nominate one or more candidates to compete with the Board's nominees in a Director election, or if any such notice has been given but is withdrawn by the submitting shareholder on or before the record date for the meeting at which such election is to take place, a nominee must receive more votes cast for than against his or her election or re-election in order to be elected or re-elected to the Board.
The Board expects a Director to tender his or her resignation as a member of the Board and the boards of directors of all affiliates if he or she fails to receive the required number of votes for re-election. The Board shall nominate for election or re-election as a Director only candidates who agree to tender, promptly following the annual meeting at which they are elected or re-elected as Director, irrevocable resignations that will be effective upon (i) the failure to receive the required vote at the next annual meeting at which they will face re-election and (ii) Board acceptance of such resignation. In addition, the Board shall fill Director vacancies and new directorships only with candidates who agree to tender, promptly following their appointment to the Board, the same form of resignation tendered by other Directors in accordance with this Board Policy.
If an incumbent Director fails to receive the required vote for re-election, the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee (the "Committee") will act on an expedited basis to determine whether to recommend acceptance of the Director's resignation and will submit such recommendation for prompt consideration by the Board.
The Committee and the Board may consider any factors they deem relevant in deciding whether to accept a Director's resignation. The Board will promptly disclose its decision-making process and decision whether to accept the Director's resignation (or the reasons for not accepting the resignation, if applicable) in a Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Board expects each Director whose resignation is under consideration to abstain from participating in any decision (whether by the Committee or by the Board) regarding that resignation. If each member of the Committee fails to receive the required vote in favor of his or her election at the same meeting, then those independent Directors who did receive the required vote or who did not face re-election at that meeting shall appoint a committee among themselves to determine whether to recommend to the Board acceptance of the resignations of those Directors who did not receive the required vote. However, if there are fewer than three independent Directors who did receive the required vote or who did not face re-election at that meeting, all Directors may participate in the decision regarding acceptance of resignations of those Directors who did not receive the required vote.


