FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20101022092035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 21, 2010, People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2010. A copy of that press release is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 2.02 (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
October 21, 2010
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL REPORTS THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS OF $24 MILLION OR $0.07 PER SHARE
Realizes operating earnings of $0.08 per share, excluding one-time costs
 People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) today announced net income of $24.1 million, or $0.07 per share, for the third quarter of 2010, compared to $16.0 million, or $0.04 per share, for the second quarter of 2010, and $26.8 million, or $0.08 per share, for the third quarter of 2009. Included in both this quarter's and the second quarter's results are pre-tax merger-related expenses, core system conversion costs and one-time charges totaling $5.3 million and $23.2 million, respectively. Excluding the effect of these items, net income would have been $27.7 million, or $0.08 per share, for the third quarter of 2010 and $31.8 million, or $0.09 per share, for the second quarter of 2010. Third quarter 2010 earnings reflect a modest increase in the net interest margin despite pressure associated with the historically low interest rate environment and the company's asset sensitive balance sheet, and an increase in the provision for loan losses.
BRIDGEPORT, CT.
As previously reported, People's United Financial completed its acquisitions of Financial Federal Corporation on February 19, 2010 and Butler Bank on April 16, 2010. Accordingly, Financial Federal's and Butler Bank's results of operations are included as of the respective acquisition dates, and prior period results have not been restated to include Financial Federal and Butler Bank.
The Board of Directors of People's United Financial declared a $0.1550 per share quarterly dividend, payable November 15, 2010 to shareholders of record on November 1, 2010. Based on the closing stock price on October 20, 2010, the dividend yield on People's United Financial common stock is 4.7 percent.
"We began the third quarter by successfully completing our core system conversion and commencing the process of rebranding our branches throughout New England to People's United Bank," stated Jack Barnes, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We also announced the acquisitions of Smithtown Bancorp, Inc. and LSB Corporation, both of which are expected to close in November, pending regulatory and shareholder approvals, and our integration plans for these acquisitions are well under way."
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 3Q Earnings
Page 2
 
Barnes added, "Our performance this quarter continues to reflect the benefits from our focused commercial, wealth management and retail banking strategy. While growth in the commercial banking portfolio was offset by declines in residential mortgage and consumer lending, we are pleased by our strong pipeline for both commercial and residential mortgage loans."
Barnes concluded, "The strength of our capital and liquidity, asset quality and earnings, as well as the fact that our balance sheet remains funded almost entirely by deposits and stockholders' equity, continue to set us apart from most in the industry."
"On an operating basis, excluding merger-related expenses, core system conversion costs and one-time charges, earnings were $28 million or 8 cents per share this quarter," said Paul D. Burner, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "Significant drivers of the company's performance in the third quarter were an improvement in the net interest margin and higher net loan charge-offs. The net interest margin improved 5 basis points to 3.73 percent, primarily attributable to higher investment income and a reduction in our cost of deposits."
Regarding the increase in net loan charge-offs, Burner commented, "Two construction loans accounted for $9.8 million, or 45 percent, of this quarter's total. These loans had been previously identified and carried specific reserves totaling $9.0 million at June 30, 2010."
Loans acquired in connection with acquisitions have been recorded at fair value, including a reduction for estimated credit losses, and without carryover of the respective portfolio's historical allowance for loan losses. As such, selected asset quality metrics have been highlighted to distinguish between the originated' portfolio and the acquired' portfolios. For the originated loan portfolio, representing all loans other than those acquired, non-accrual loans totaled $251.4 million at September 30, 2010, and the ratio of originated non-accrual loans to originated loans was 1.77 percent, compared to $219.7 million and 1.56 percent, respectively, at June 30, 2010. Non-accrual loans in the acquired loan portfolios, which represent those loans acquired that meet our definition of non-accrual but for which the risk of loss has already been considered by virtue of our estimate of acquisition-date fair value and/or the existence of an FDIC loss-share agreement, totaled $59.4 million at September 30, 2010.
Non-performing assets totaled $312.0 million at September 30, 2010, up from $284.5 million at June 30, 2010. Non-performing assets equaled 2.18 percent of originated loans, REO and repossessed assets at September 30, 2010 compared to 2.01 percent at June 30, 2010. At September 30, 2010, the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of originated loans was 1.21 percent and as a percentage of originated non-accrual loans was 69 percent, compared to 1.23 percent and 79 percent, respectively, at June 30, 2010.
Third quarter net loan charge-offs totaled $21.8 million compared to $17.8 million in the second quarter of 2010. Net loan charge-offs as a percent of average loans on an annualized basis were 0.57 percent in the third quarter of 2010 compared to 0.46 percent in this year's second quarter. The level of the allowance for loan losses is unchanged from June 30, 2010.
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 3Q Earnings
Page 3
 
In the third quarter of 2010, return on average tangible assets was 0.48 percent and return on average tangible stockholders' equity was 2.7 percent, compared to 0.32 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively, for the second quarter of 2010. At September 30, 2010, People's United Financial's tangible equity ratio stood at 17.8 percent.
Conference Call
On October 22, 2010, at 11 a.m., Eastern Time, People's United Financial will host a conference call to discuss this earnings announcement and our acquisition announcements. The call may be heard through by selecting "Investor Relations" in the "About Us" section on the home page, and then selecting "Conference Calls" in the "News and Events" section. Additional materials relating to the call may also be accessed at People's United Bank's web site. The call will be archived on the web site and available for approximately 90 days.
www.peoples.com
3Q 2010 Financial Highlights
Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Banking
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 3Q Earnings
Page 4
 
Retail & Business Banking
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management
 
 
 
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $22 billion in assets, provides commercial banking, retail and business banking, and wealth management services through a network of nearly 300 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts and New York. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.
Certain statements contained in this release are forward-looking in nature. These include all statements about People's United Financial's plans, objectives, expectations and other statements that are not historical facts, and usually use words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe" and similar expressions. Such statements represent management's current beliefs, based upon information available at the time the statements are made, with regard to the matters addressed. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause People's United Financial's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements. Factors of particular importance to People's United Financial include, but are not limited to: (1) changes in general, national or regional economic conditions; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in loan default and charge-off rates; (4) changes in deposit levels; (5) changes in levels of income and expense in non-interest income and expense related activities; (6) residential mortgage and secondary market activity; (7) changes in accounting and regulatory guidance applicable to banks; (8) price levels and conditions in the public securities markets generally; (9) competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; (10) the successful integration of acquired companies; (11) success in addressing management succession issues in a timely and effective manner; and (12) possible changes in regulation resulting from or relating to recently enacted financial reform legislation. People's United Financial does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
People's United Financial completed its acquisitions of Financial Federal Corporation on February 19, 2010 and Butler Bank on April 16, 2010. Accordingly, Financial Federal's and Butler Bank's results of operations are included beginning with the respective acquisition dates, and prior period results have not been restated to include Financial Federal and Butler Bank.
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - Continued
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS (1)
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS (1)
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-PERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
 
NET LOAN CHARGE-OFFS
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
In addition to evaluating People's United Financial's results of operations in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), management routinely supplements this evaluation with an analysis of certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as the efficiency and tangible equity ratios, tangible book value per share, and operating earnings. Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding People's United Financial's underlying operating performance and trends, and facilitates comparisons with the performance of other banks and thrifts. Further, the efficiency ratio and operating earnings are used by management in its assessment of financial performance, including non-interest expense control, while the tangible equity ratio and tangible book value per share are used to analyze the relative strength of People's United Financial's capital position.
The efficiency ratio, which represents an approximate measure of the cost required by People's United Financial to generate a dollar of revenue, is the ratio of (i) total non-interest expense (excluding goodwill impairment charges, amortization of other acquisition-related intangibles and fair value adjustments, losses on real estate assets and non-recurring expenses) (the numerator) to (ii) net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (excluding fair value adjustments) plus total non-interest income (including the fully taxable equivalent adjustment on bank-owned life insurance income, and excluding gains and losses on sales of assets, other than residential mortgage loans, and non-recurring income) (the denominator). People's United Financial generally considers an item of income or expense to be non-recurring if it is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type incurred within the last two years and is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type reasonably expected to be incurred within the following two years.
Operating earnings exclude from net income those items that management considers to be of such a non-recurring or infrequent nature that, by excluding such items (net of income taxes), People's United Financial's results can be measured and assessed on a more consistent basis from period to period. Items excluded from operating earnings, which include, but are not limited to, merger-related expenses, core system conversion costs, and one-time charges related to executive-level management separation agreements, are generally also excluded when calculating the efficiency ratio. Operating earnings per share is calculated by dividing operating earnings by the weighted average number of dilutive common shares outstanding for the respective period.
The tangible equity ratio is the ratio of (i) tangible stockholders' equity (total stockholders' equity less goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles) (the numerator) to (ii) tangible assets (total assets less goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles) (the denominator). Tangible book value per share is calculated by dividing tangible stockholders' equity by common shares (total common shares issued, less common shares classified as treasury shares and unallocated ESOP common shares).
In light of diversity in presentation among financial institutions, the methodologies used by People's United Financial for determining the non-GAAP financial measures discussed above may differ from those used by other financial institutions.
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATION TO GAAP - continued
 
 
 
 


