FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20101201083537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Smithtown Bancorp Merger
On November 30, 2010, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 15, 2010 (the "Smithtown Bancorp Merger Agreement") between People's United Financial, Inc. ("People's United") and Smithtown Bancorp, Inc. ("Smithtown"), People's United and Smithtown completed the merger (the "Smithtown Bancorp Merger") in which Smithtown merged with and into People's United, with People's United as the surviving corporation.
Pursuant to the Smithtown Bancorp Merger Agreement, each share of Smithtown common stock outstanding at the effective time of the Smithtown Bancorp Merger was converted into the right to receive either $3.77 in cash or 0.304 shares of People's United common stock, at the election of each Smithtown stockholder, subject to proration due to limitations on the aggregate amount of cash to be paid by People's United in the Smithtown Bancorp Merger and depending on the election of other Smithtown stockholders, as specified in the Smithtown Bancorp Merger Agreement. People's United will pay approximately $56.4 million in cash and People's United common stock to Smithtown stockholders, consisting of approximately $29.9 million in cash and 2.1 million shares of People's United common stock.
This description of the Smithtown Bancorp Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Smithtown Bancorp Merger Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 8.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
LSB Merger
On November 30, 2010, pursuant to the terms and conditions of an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 15, 2010 (the "LSB Merger Agreement") by and among People's United, People's United Bank, Bridgeport Merger Corporation, LSB Corporation ("LSB"), and River Bank, Bridgeport Merger Corporation merged with and into LSB, with LSB surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of People's United (the "LSB Merger").
As a result of the LSB Merger, each share of LSB common stock outstanding at the effective time of the LSB Merger was converted into the right to receive $21.00 per share in cash plus an additional $0.026 per share in respect of certain additional amounts calculated in accordance with the LSB Merger Agreement. The total cash consideration People's United will pay in the LSB Merger is approximately $94.8 million.
This description of the LSB Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the LSB Merger Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 8.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Smithtown Bancorp Merger and LSB Merger is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) The following Exhibits are submitted herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
December 1, 2010
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL COMPLETES ACQUISITIONS OF LSB CORPORATION AND SMITHTOWN BANCORP, INC.
People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) announced today that it has completed its acquisitions of LSB Corporation, an $800 million bank holding company based in North Andover, Massachusetts, and Smithtown Bancorp, Inc., a $2.3 billion bank holding company based in Smithtown, New York. LSB Corporation's subsidiary, River Bank, has seven branches, five of which are just north of Boston and two of which are in southern New Hampshire. Smithtown Bancorp's subsidiary, Bank of Smithtown, has 30 branches on Long Island and one in New York City.
BRIDGEPORT, CT 
The LSB Corporation acquisition is an all-cash transaction valued at $94.8 million. The transaction values each LSB Corporation share at $21.00. LSB shareholders approved the transaction on October 27. The Smithtown Bancorp, Inc. acquisition is valued at approximately $56.4 million, or $3.77 per share, with approximately 53 percent being paid in cash and the balance in the form of shares of People's United Financial common stock. Smithtown Bancorp shareholders approved the transaction on November 19. The Office of Thrift Supervision, People's United Bank's primary regulator, approved the transactions on November 15.
"We are pleased to expand the People's United Bank franchise in the greater Boston and New York markets," said Jack Barnes, President and Chief Executive Officer of People's United Financial. "The seven former River Bank branches are an excellent fit with our existing footprint in Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire, considering our FDIC-assisted purchase of Butler Bank in Lowell earlier this year, and our two new branches in downtown Boston. The former Bank of Smithtown branches are a natural extension of our Westchester County and Fairfield County markets and an exciting expansion of our franchise into the New York Metro area."
People's United Financial, Inc., a diversified financial services company with approximately $25 billion in assets, provides consumer and commercial banking services through its subsidiary, People's United Bank, with nearly 340 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Maine and New York. Through additional subsidiaries, People's United provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.


