FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20100701141337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) The Bylaws of People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") have been amended, effective July 1, 2010, in the following respects:
 
 
 
A copy of these amendments is being filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2.
 
The Board of Directors of the Company has approved a temporary increase in the annual fee payable to the Chairman of the Board, from $165,000 to $220,000 on an annualized basis. The increase is retroactive to April 25, 2010 (the effective date of the resignation of the Company's former President and Chief Executive Officer) and will remain in effect until such time as a permanent President and Chief Executive Officer is selected and commences employment with the Company.
 
(c) The following Exhibit is submitted herewith.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
Article IV of the Bylaws of People's United Financial, Inc. has been amended, effective July 1, 2010, (a) by deleting Section 4 thereof in its entirety and renumbering all subsequent sections of Article IV accordingly, and (b) to revise Section 3 and former Section 5 to read as follows:
SECTION 3. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Chairman of the Board shall be an independent director and shall perform such duties as the Board may from time to time assign to him or her, including, but not limited to, presiding at all meetings of the shareholders, the Board and the Executive Committee. The Chairman of the Board also shall have such powers and duties as are generally incident to the position of a non-executive Chairman.
SECTION 4. AGE LIMITATION OF DIRECTORS. With the exception of the Chairman of the Board, a director shall retire from service as a director of the Corporation at the expiration of the term of office during which such Director has reached the age of seventy-two. The Chairman of the Board shall retire from service as a director of the Corporation at the expiration of the three year term of office during which the Chairman of the Board reaches the age of seventy-eight.
A complete copy of the Bylaws, reflecting the foregoing amendments, will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending June 30, 2010.
 


