FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20110701134339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On May 19, 2011, the Board of Directors of People's United Financial, Inc. (the "Company") approved a prospective increase in the size of the Board to twelve members, with such increase being contingent on, and to be effective concurrent with, completion of the merger of Danvers Bancorp, Inc. ("Danvers") with and into the Company. The Board also approved on a prospective basis the appointment of Kevin T. Bottomley as a director of the Company to fill the vacancy created by that action. His appointment was contingent on, and to be effective concurrent with, completion of the merger of Danvers with and into the Company.
As discussed in more detail below, the merger of Danvers with and into the Company became effective on July 1, 2011, and Mr. Bottomley became a director of the Company at that time. Mr. Bottomley's term of office will expire at the 2013 annual meeting of the Company's shareholders. Mr. Bottomley has not yet been named to any committees of the Board.
Mr. Bottomley became Chief Executive Officer and President of Danversbank in 1996. He became Chairman of the Board of Directors in 2003. Prior to arriving at Danversbank, he was the Chief Lending Officer and Executive Vice President at Boston Private Bank & Trust Company. Mr. Bottomley began his career at Bankers Trust in 1976 in the Asia Pacific division and also worked for many years at The First National Bank of Boston as a Vice President in its Asia Pacific Division in the Reverse Multinational Group and in its London Branch. Mr. Bottomley earned his undergraduate degree from Harvard College in 1974 and earned his M.B.A. from the University of Virginia in 1976. Mr. Bottomley's qualifications to serve on the Board include his demonstrated experience in executive leadership, strategic planning and governance of a public company.
 
Danvers Bancorp Merger
On July 1, 2011, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 20, 2011 (the "Danvers Bancorp Merger Agreement") between the Company and Danvers, the merger of the Company and Danvers (the "Danvers Bancorp Merger"), in which Danvers merged with and into the Company, with the Company as the surviving corporation, became effective.
Pursuant to the Danvers Bancorp Merger Agreement, each share of Danvers common stock outstanding at the effective time of the Danvers Bancorp Merger was converted into the right to receive either $23.00 in cash or 1.624 shares of the Company's common stock, at the election of each Danvers stockholder, subject to proration due to limitations on the aggregate amount of cash to be paid by the Company in the Danvers Bancorp
Merger and depending on the election of other Danvers stockholders, as specified in the Danvers Bancorp Merger Agreement. The Company will pay approximately $462.5 million to Danvers stockholders, consisting of approximately $214.5 million in cash and 18.5 million shares of the Company's common stock.
This description of the Danvers Bancorp Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Danvers Bancorp Merger Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 8.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Danvers Bancorp Merger is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) The following Exhibits are submitted herewith.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 1, 2011
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL, INC. COMPLETES ACQUISITION OF DANVERS BANCORP, INC.
 People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) announced today that it has completed its acquisition of Danvers Bancorp, Inc, a $2.9 billion bank holding company based in Danvers, Massachusetts. Danvers Bancorp's sole subsidiary, Danversbank, has 28 branches in the Greater Boston area. The total consideration paid by People's United will be comprised of approximately 18.5 million shares of common stock and $214.5 million in cash.
BRIDGEPORT, CT
"We are pleased to welcome our new customers and employees to People's United Bank as we expand and deepen relationships in the greater Boston market, the nation's 10
th
largest MSA," said Jack Barnes, President and Chief Executive Officer of People's United Bank. "As the largest bank headquartered in New England, we look forward to offering increased lending resources and additional products and services to our new customers in New England's largest market.
"The growth potential in the Boston markets, with their abundant commercial lending opportunities, is significant," Barnes added. "With our 28 new branches, we are nearly doubling our existing Massachusetts footprint and providing added convenience to our customers. We are now the seventh largest bank in both Massachusetts and the Boston market and we look forward to continuing to build relationships with personal and business customers based on our unique brand of relationship-based banking."
People's United Bank, a diversified financial services company with approximately $28 billion in assets, provides consumer and commercial banking and wealth management services through a network of 369 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Maine and New York. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Bank provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.


