FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20110628144243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 27, 2011, the Office of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks and the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation notified People's United Financial, Inc. ("") and its wholly-owned subsidiary, People's United Bank (the ""), that they had approved the proposed merger of Danversbank with and into the Bank (the "") and the related merger of Danvers Bancorp, Inc. ("") with and into People's United. The transactions are expected to close on June 30, 2011 with an effective time of 12:01 a.m. on July 1, 2011.
People's United
Bank
Danvers Merger
Danvers
A copy of the press release dated June 28, 2011 relating to the approvals and anticipated closing date is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
On June 28, 2011, People's United issued a press release announcing the merger consideration to be received by Danvers shareholders in connection with the merger, based on final election results and application of the proration provisions set forth in the merger agreement. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 28, 2011
PEOPLE'S UNITED AND DANVERS BANCORP ANNOUNCE RECEIPT OF ALL REGULATORY APPROVALS, CLOSING DATE
 People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) and Danvers Bancorp, Inc. (NASDAQ: DNBK) today announced that their proposed merger was approved by the Office of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks and the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation on June 27, 2011. The transaction was previously approved by Danvers Bancorp shareholders on May 13 and by the Office of Thrift Supervision on May 16. The closing of the merger is expected to occur on June 30, 2011.
BRIDGEPORT, CT and DANVERS, MA
Additional Information About People's United and Danvers
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $25 billion in assets, provides commercial banking, retail and business banking, and wealth management services through a network of 341 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New York, New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.
Danversbank is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Danvers Bancorp, Inc., a holding company with approximately $2.9 billion in total assets. Danvers Bancorp, Inc., through Danversbank, offers a wide range of commercial and retail banking services, including commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, owner-occupied residential mortgages and consumer loans, cash management, debit and credit card products, online banking, and non-deposit investment products and investment management services. Danversbank operates a total of 28 branches in the following communities: Andover, Beverly, Boston, Cambridge, Chelsea, Danvers, Hamilton, Malden, Manchester-by-the-Sea, Middleton, Needham, Peabody, Reading, Revere, Salem, Saugus, Topsfield, Waltham, Wilmington, and Woburn, Massachusetts.

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 28, 2011
PEOPLE'S UNITED ANNOUNCES FINAL RESULTS OF ELECTIONS REGARDING DANVERS BANCORP MERGER CONSIDERATION
- People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) today announced the merger consideration to be received by Danvers shareholders in People's United's acquisition of Danvers Bancorp, Inc., which is expected to close on June 30, 2011.
BRIDGEPORT, CT (June 28, 2011)
Based on final election results and applying the proration provisions set forth in the merger agreement, Danvers shareholders will receive the following merger consideration:
 
 
 
Under the merger agreement, fractional shares of People's United common stock will not be issued. Instead, Danvers shareholders will receive cash based on the closing price of People's United common stock on June 29, 2011 which will be the last trading day prior to the closing of the merger.
Of the 20,686,592 shares of Danvers common stock outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the merger:
 
 
 
The total consideration paid by People's United will be comprised of approximately 18.5 million shares of common stock and $214.5 million in cash.
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $25 billion in assets, provides commercial banking, retail and business banking, and wealth management services through a network of 341 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New York, New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.


