FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20110517160813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 16, 2011, the Office of Thrift Supervision ("") notified People's United Bank (the ""), a wholly-owned subsidiary of People's United Financial, Inc. (""), that the OTS had approved the proposed merger of Danversbank with and into the Bank (the ""). Danversbank is a wholly owned subsidiary of Danvers Bancorp, Inc. ("").
OTS
Bank
People's United
Danvers Merger
Danvers
Consummation of the Danvers Merger and the related merger involving People's United and Danvers remain subject to approval by the Office of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks and the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation and the satisfaction or waiver of other customary closing conditions.
People's United and Danvers will issue a supplemental press release once more definite information about the closing date and the deadline for Danvers stockholders to make elections regarding the form of merger consideration to be received in connection with the merger is known.
Additional Information About the Merger and Where to Find It
In connection with People's United's proposed acquisition of Danvers, People's United has filed a registration statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission containing a proxy statement/prospectus dated April 1, 2011, which has been mailed to Danvers stockholders. Investors are urged to read these materials, and any other documents filed by People's United or Danvers with the SEC, because they contain or will contain important information about People's United, Danvers and the merger. The proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials, and any other documents filed by People's United with the SEC, may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at . The definitive proxy statement/prospectus and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing People's United's website at www.peoples.com under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "Financial Information" or by accessing Danvers' website at www.danversbank.com under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings." In addition, investors may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by People's United by directing a written request to People's United Financial, Inc., 850 Main Street, Bridgeport, Connecticut 06604, Attn: Investor Relations.
www.sec.gov
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


