FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20110421082628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 20, 2011, People's United Financial, Inc. ("People's United") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011. A copy of that press release is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 2.02 (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
 
People's United hereby files the Investor Presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
(c) The following Exhibits are submitted herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
April 20, 2011
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL REPORTS FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS OF $52 MILLION OR $0.15 PER SHARE AND INCREASES DIVIDEND
 People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) today announced net income of $51.7 million, or $0.15 per share, for the first quarter of 2011, compared to $32.0 million, or $0.09 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2010, and $13.6 million, or $0.04 per share, for the first quarter of 2010. The company's Board of Directors voted to increase the common stock dividend to an annual dividend rate of $0.63 per share. Based on the closing stock price on April 19, 2011, the dividend yield on People's United Financial common stock is 4.9 percent. The quarterly dividend of $0.1575 per share is payable May 15, 2011 to shareholders of record on May 1, 2011.
BRIDGEPORT, CT.
First quarter 2011 earnings were driven by higher net interest income and continued growth in fee-based businesses, partially offset by an increase in the provision for loan losses. In the first quarter of 2011, the return on average assets was 0.84 percent and the return on average tangible stockholders' equity was 6.4 percent, compared to 0.56 percent and 3.7 percent, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2010. At March 31, 2011, People's United Financial's tangible equity ratio stood at 13.9 percent.
"Our performance this quarter reflects meaningful organic loan and deposit growth, encouraging trends in asset quality, as well as the benefit of acquisitions completed in 2010," stated Jack Barnes, President and Chief Executive Officer. "In fact, on an annualized basis, both loans and deposits increased over 4 percent this quarter; our net interest margin reached its highest level since the end of 2007; and our non-performing assets ratio declined to under 2 percent."
Barnes added, "We continue to invest in our commercial, retail and business banking, and wealth management businesses throughout our franchise. Increases in our originated commercial banking and retail banking loan portfolios of $277 million, or 11 percent annualized, and $136 million, or 12 percent annualized, respectively, were effectively funded by growth in our retail deposits. The revenue increases in all of our wealth management product lines this quarter are further evidence of the progress we are making in this highly competitive area. In addition, our efforts with respect to both the Bank of Smithtown integration and Danversbank planning are well under way. We expect to close the Danversbank acquisition later in the second quarter, pending regulatory and shareholder approvals."
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 2
Barnes concluded, "We are pleased to reward our shareholders with a 19
th
consecutive annual dividend increase. Operating from a position of competitive strength, characterized by our strong business fundamentals, the ability to further leverage our brand in attractive markets and our prospects for organic growth, continues to set us apart from most in the industry. Furthermore, we have demonstrated our ability to prudently and effectively deploy capital through organic loan and deposit growth, adherence to a strong dividend policy, share repurchases and a thoughtful acquisition strategy."
"The company's performance this quarter reflects a solid improvement in the net interest margin and continued positive momentum in our fee businesses, which were partially offset by our decision to increase the allowance for loan losses in response to loan growth," said Kirk W. Walters, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Walters continued, "The net interest margin improved 29 basis points to 4.16 percent, primarily reflecting the benefit of our two acquisitions completed during the fourth quarter of 2010, an increase in investment income, a reduction in our cost of deposits and additional interest accretion from the Financial Federal acquisition as a result of better than expected credit experience and slower than anticipated pre-payment activity. If credit experience within acquired loan portfolios continues to be better than originally expected, we will likely benefit from additional interest accretion over the remaining life of those loans."
Regarding asset quality, Walters stated, "While the overall level of non-performing loans is reflective of a period of prolonged economic weakness, we are pleased with the improvements noted over the past few quarters. In addition, the decline in acquired non-performing loans this quarter reflects our efforts to proactively reduce this portfolio through loan sales. During the first quarter, loans with a contractual balance of approximately $50 million (carrying amount of approximately $25 million) were sold at a gain of approximately $6 million and we continue to evaluate loan sales from within the acquired loan portfolios. The increase in the allowance for loan losses this quarter was driven by loan growth and is not an indication of weakening asset quality."
Loans acquired in connection with acquisitions have been recorded at fair value, including a reduction for estimated credit losses, and without carryover of the respective portfolio's historical allowance for loan losses. As such, selected asset quality metrics have been highlighted to distinguish between the originated' portfolio and the acquired' portfolios.
For the originated portfolio, representing all loans other than those acquired, non-performing loans totaled $240.5 million at March 31, 2011, or 1.62 percent of originated loans, compared to $245.2 million and 1.70 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Non-performing loans in the acquired portfolios, which represent the contractual balances of loans acquired that meet our definition of non-performing but for which the risk of loss has already been considered by virtue of our estimate of acquisition-date fair value and/or the existence of an FDIC loss-share agreement, totaled $324.4 million at March 31, 2011 compared to $359.8 million at December 31, 2010.
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 3
Non-performing assets (excluding acquired non-performing loans) totaled $292.1 million at March 31, 2011, down from $303.1 million at December 31, 2010. Non-performing assets equaled 1.96 percent of originated loans, REO and repossessed assets at March 31, 2011 compared to 2.09 percent at December 31, 2010.
First quarter net loan charge-offs totaled $9.6 million compared to $10.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Net loan charge-offs as a percent of average loans on an annualized basis were 0.22 percent in the first quarter of 2011 compared to 0.28 percent in the prior year's fourth quarter. The provision for loan losses in the first quarter of 2011 reflects a $5.0 million increase in the allowance for loan losses to $177.5 million at March 31, 2011 due to strong growth in the commercial and residential mortgage loan portfolios.
At March 31, 2011, the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of originated loans was 1.19 percent and as a percentage of originated non-performing loans was 74 percent, compared to 1.19 percent and 70 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2010. For the originated commercial banking portfolio, the allowance for loan losses ratio was 1.61 percent at both March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The commercial banking allowance for loan losses represented 104 percent of non-performing commercial banking loans at March 31, 2011.
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $25 billion in assets, provides commercial banking, retail and business banking, and wealth management services through a network of 341 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New York, New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.
Conference Call
On April 20, 2011, at 5 p.m., Eastern Time, People's United Financial will host a conference call to discuss this earnings announcement. The call may be heard through by selecting "Investor Relations" in the "About Us" section on the home page, and then selecting "Conference Calls" in the "News and Events" section. Additional materials relating to the call may also be accessed at People's United Bank's web site. The call will be archived on the web site and available for approximately 90 days.
www.peoples.com
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 4
1Q 2011 Financial Highlights
Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Banking
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 5
Retail and Business Banking
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management
 
 
 
Certain statements contained in this release are forward-looking in nature. These include all statements about People's United Financial's plans, objectives, expectations and other statements that are not historical facts, and usually use words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe" and similar expressions. Such statements represent management's current beliefs, based upon information available at the time the statements are made, with regard to the matters addressed. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause People's United Financial's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements. Factors of particular importance to People's United Financial include, but are not limited to: (1) changes in general, national or regional economic conditions; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in loan default and charge-off rates; (4) changes in deposit levels; (5) changes in levels of income and expense in non-interest income and expense related activities; (6) residential mortgage and secondary market activity; (7) changes in accounting and regulatory guidance applicable to banks; (8) price levels and conditions in the public securities markets generally; (9) competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; (10) the successful integration of acquired companies; and (11) possible changes in regulation resulting from or relating to recently enacted financial reform legislation. People's United Financial does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - Continued
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS (1)
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-PERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
NET LOAN CHARGE-OFFS
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
In addition to evaluating People's United Financial's results of operations in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), management routinely supplements this evaluation with an analysis of certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as the efficiency and tangible equity ratios, tangible book value per share, and operating earnings. Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding People's United Financial's underlying operating performance and trends, and facilitates comparisons with the performance of other banks and thrifts. Further, the efficiency ratio and operating earnings are used by management in its assessment of financial performance, including non-interest expense control, while the tangible equity ratio and tangible book value per share are used to analyze the relative strength of People's United Financial's capital position.
The efficiency ratio, which represents an approximate measure of the cost required by People's United Financial to generate a dollar of revenue, is the ratio of (i) total non-interest expense (excluding goodwill impairment charges, amortization of other acquisition-related intangibles and fair value adjustments, losses on real estate assets and non-recurring expenses) (the numerator) to (ii) net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (excluding fair value adjustments) plus total non-interest income (including the fully taxable equivalent adjustment on bank-owned life insurance income, and excluding gains and losses on sales of assets, other than residential mortgage loans, and non-recurring income) (the denominator). People's United Financial generally considers an item of income or expense to be non-recurring if it is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type incurred within the last two years and is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type reasonably expected to be incurred within the following two years.
Operating earnings exclude from net income those items that management considers to be of such a non-recurring or infrequent nature that, by excluding such items (net of income taxes), People's United Financial's results can be measured and assessed on a more consistent basis from period to period. Items excluded from operating earnings, which include, but are not limited to, merger-related expenses, core system conversion costs, and one-time charges related to executive-level management separation agreements, are generally also excluded when calculating the efficiency ratio. Operating earnings per share is calculated by dividing operating earnings by the weighted average number of dilutive common shares outstanding for the respective period.
The tangible equity ratio is the ratio of (i) tangible stockholders' equity (total stockholders' equity less goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles) (the numerator) to (ii) tangible assets (total assets less goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles) (the denominator). Tangible book value per share is calculated by dividing tangible stockholders' equity by common shares (total common shares issued, less common shares classified as treasury shares and unallocated ESOP common shares).
In light of diversity in presentation among financial institutions, the methodologies used by People's United Financial for determining the non-GAAP financial measures discussed above may differ from those used by other financial institutions.
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATION TO GAAP - continued
EFFICIENCY RATIO
 
 
OPERATING EARNINGS
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATION TO GAAP - continued
TANGIBLE EQUITY RATIO
 
 



