FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20121221165325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
(a) The Bylaws of the Company have been amended, effective December 20, 2012, by revising Article IV, Section 4 (Age Limitation of Directors) to increase the mandatory retirement age for directors (other than the Chairman of the Board) from age 72 to age 76, and for the Chairman of the Board from age 78 to age 80.
A copy of this amendment is being filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) The following Exhibit is submitted herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Article IV of the Bylaws of People's United Financial, Inc. has been amended, effective December 20, 2012, by revising Section 4 thereof to read as follows:
SECTION 4. AGE LIMITATION OF DIRECTORS. With the exception of the Chairman of the Board, a director shall retire from service as a director of the Corporation at the expiration of the term of office during which such Director has reached the age of seventy-six. The Chairman of the Board shall retire from service as a director of the Corporation at the expiration of the term of office during which the Chairman of the Board reaches the age of eighty.
A complete copy of the Bylaws, reflecting the foregoing amendment, will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2012.


