FILE:PBCT/PBCT-8K-20120419174802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 19, 2012, People's United Financial, Inc. ("the Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012. A copy of that press release is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in and accompanying this Form 8-K with respect to Item 2.02 (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) is being furnished to, and not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
 
(a) The Bylaws of the Company have been amended, effective April 19, 2012, by revising Article V, Section 1 (Executive Committee) to permit the Board of Directors to establish an Executive Committee. Prior to this amendment, the establishment of an Executive Committee was mandatory.
A copy of this amendment is being filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2.
 
(a) The Company held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting") on April 19, 2012.
(b) There were 358,555,961 shares of common stock entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, of which 297,148,467 shares were present in person or by proxy. Shareholders voted on the following matters at the Annual Meeting:
1. . The results of the election of the three nominees for director are indicated below.
Election of three directors
 
There were no abstentions with respect to the election of the three nominees for director.
2. . The Company's shareholders gave advisory approval of the compensation of the Company's named executive officers. A total of 223,017,187 votes were cast for the proposal, 11,893,714 votes were cast against the proposal; and 1,549,724 shares abstained from voting on the proposal. There were 60,687,842 broker non-votes with respect to the proposal.
Advisory vote to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers as disclosed in the proxy statement
3. . Holders of a majority of the Company's shares voted at the Annual Meeting voted to approve adoption of the Company's Short-Term Incentive Plan. A total of 227,184,166 votes were cast for the proposal; 8,123,019 votes were cast against the proposal; and 1,153,440 shares abstained from voting on the proposal. There were 60,687,842 broker non-votes with respect to the proposal.
Vote on adoption of Short-Term Incentive Plan
4. . A total of 293,447,630 votes were cast for the proposal; 2,858,309 votes were cast against the proposal; and 842,528 shares abstained from voting on the proposal. There were no broker non-votes with respect to the proposal.
Ratification of appointment of KPMG LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2012
5. . A total of 209,415,804 votes were cast for the proposal; 8,553,981 votes were cast against the proposal; and 11,101,756 shares abstained from voting on the proposal. There were 68,076,926 broker non-votes with respect to the proposal. Based on these results, the Company intends to present for shareholder vote at the 2013 Annual Meeting amendments to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation which, if approved, would eliminate the classified Board of Directors.
Vote on shareholder proposal to eliminate classified Board of Directors
(c) Not applicable.
 
The Company hereby files the Investor Presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
(d) The following Exhibits are submitted herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.2
Article V of the Bylaws of People's United Financial, Inc. has been amended, effective April 19, 2012, by revising Section 1 thereof to read as follows:
SECTION 1. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. An Executive Committee of the Board may be appointed by Board resolution. If appointed, the Executive Committee shall, to the extent not inconsistent with law, these Bylaws, the Certificate of Incorporation or resolutions adopted by the Board, exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation in the intervals between the meetings of the Board. The Executive Committee shall operate pursuant to a Charter approved by the Committee and the entire Board of Directors.
A complete copy of the Bylaws, reflecting the foregoing amendment, will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending June 30, 2012.

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
April 19, 2012
PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL REPORTS FIRST QUARTER OPERATING EARNINGS OF $0.18 PER SHARE; NET INCOME OF $0.17 PER SHARE; ANNOUNCES DIVIDEND INCREASE
 People's United Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ: PBCT) today reported net income of $58.6 million, or $0.17 per share, for the first quarter of 2012, compared to $51.7 million, or $0.15 per share, for the first quarter of 2011, and $43.0 million, or $0.12 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating earnings were $60.6 million, or $0.18 per share, for the first quarter of 2012, compared to $53.8 million, or $0.15 per share, for the first quarter of 2011 and $58.7 million, or $0.17 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2011.
BRIDGEPORT, CT.
The Board of Directors of People's United Financial voted to increase the common stock dividend to an annual rate of $0.64 per share. Based on the closing stock price on April 18, 2012, the dividend yield on People's United Financial common stock is 5.0 percent. The quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share is payable May 15, 2012 to shareholders of record on May 1, 2012.
During the first quarter of 2012 the Company repurchased 4.5 million shares of People's United Financial common stock at a total cost of $56 million. Under the existing stock repurchase authorization, 13.5 million shares of common stock remain available to repurchase.
"Our performance in the first quarter of 2012 continues to build on the execution of our primary objectives  optimizing existing businesses and efficiently deploying capital," stated Jack Barnes, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our first quarter financial results reflect continued loan and deposit growth and ongoing strength in our fee income businesses, including solid contributions from wealth management and insurance. We anticipate continued momentum in loan growth based on our residential, commercial and asset-based lending pipelines and remain encouraged by the significant opportunity for loan and deposit growth throughout the franchise, particularly within the Boston and New York City MSAs.
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 2
 
"Further, we announced the acquisition of 56 branches located in New York state from RBS Citizens, N.A., 52 of which are situated in Stop & Shop supermarkets, and the assumption of $325 million in deposits associated with these branches, which leverages our excellent track record with in-store banking," added Barnes. "The transaction, which is expected to close late in the second quarter pending regulatory approval, is a unique opportunity to be the exclusive provider of banking services at 139 Stop & Shop stores located across Long Island, southern New York state and Connecticut."
Barnes concluded, "We are pleased to announce our 20
th
consecutive annual dividend increase. Our strong business fundamentals, ongoing ability to leverage our brand in attractive markets, and prospects for organic growth continue to be the foundations of our strength relative to others in the industry. We have demonstrated our ability to prudently and effectively deploy capital through organic loan and deposit growth, adherence to a strong dividend policy, share repurchases and a thoughtful acquisition strategy."
"On an operating basis, earnings were $61 million, or 18 cents per share, this quarter," stated Kirk W. Walters, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "The Company's performance in the first quarter reflects an expected decline in the net interest margin, lower provision expense, improvement in fee-based income and ongoing expense control."
Walters continued, "The operating net interest margin was 4.01 percent in the first quarter of 2012 compared to 4.00 percent in the first quarter of 2011 and 4.07 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011. Non-interest income this quarter continues to reflect improvements in most of our fee-based business as well as gains on sales of residential mortgage loans, partially offset by decreases in loan prepayment fees and bank service charges. The decrease in the level of operating non-interest expense this quarter reflects the continued benefit from cost-savings initiatives announced in 2011."
Walters concluded, "We continue to be pleased with our overall levels of asset quality, as noted by the improvement this quarter. Our low net loan charge-off ratio, which represents less than one-third of our peers, is a reflection of the Company's historically strong underwriting standards, the strength of the footprint in which we operate and the resilience of our customers, who have successfully managed through the economic crisis."
At March 31, 2012, People's United Financial's tier 1 common and total risk-based capital ratios were 14.0 percent and 16.1 percent, respectively, and the tangible equity ratio stood at 11.7 percent. People's United Bank's tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 13.2 percent and 14.2 percent, respectively, at March 31, 2012.
Operating return on average assets was 0.88 percent for the first quarter of 2012, compared to 0.87 percent for the first quarter of 2011 and 0.86 percent for the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating return on average tangible stockholders' equity was 8.0 percent for the first quarter of 2012, compared to 6.7 percent for the first quarter of 2011 and 7.4 percent for the fourth quarter of 2011.
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 3
 
Loans acquired in connection with acquisitions have been recorded at fair value based on an initial estimate of expected cash flows, including a reduction for estimated credit losses and without carryover of the respective portfolios' historical allowance for loan losses. A decrease in expected cash flows in subsequent periods may indicate that a loan is impaired, which would require the establishment of an allowance for loan losses. As such, selected asset quality metrics have been highlighted to distinguish between the originated' portfolio and the acquired' portfolio.
At March 31, 2012, the allowance for loan losses for originated loans as a percentage of originated loans, which represents all loans other than those acquired, was 1.03 percent and as a percentage of originated non-performing loans was 61 percent, compared to 1.04 percent and 60 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2011. For the originated commercial banking portfolio, the allowance for loan losses ratio was 1.34 percent at March 31, 2012 and represented 79 percent of non-performing commercial banking loans at that date.
For the originated loan portfolio, non-performing loans equaled 1.67 percent of originated loans at March 31, 2012, compared to 1.75 percent at December 31, 2011 and 1.62 percent at March 31, 2011. Non-performing assets (excluding acquired non-performing loans) equaled 1.85 percent of originated loans, REO and repossessed assets at March 31, 2012 compared to 2.00 percent at December 31, 2011 and 1.96 percent at March 31, 2011.
Non-performing loans in the acquired portfolio, which represent the contractual balances of loans acquired that meet our definition of non-performing but are not, under the accounting model for acquired loans, subject to classification as non-accrual in the same manner as originated loans, totaled $247.2 million at March 31, 2012 compared to $249.0 million at December 31, 2011 and $324.4 million at March 31, 2011.
The provision for loan losses in the first quarter of 2012 totaled $11.5 million, reflecting: (i) net loan charge-offs of $11.2 million, of which $4.8 million carried previously-established specific reserves; (ii) a $4.8 million increase in the originated allowance for loan losses in response to the growth in the commercial and residential mortgage loan portfolios; and (iii) $0.3 million of impairment associated with the acquired loan portfolio. Net loan charge-offs totaled $14.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. Net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average loans on an annualized basis were 0.22 percent in the first quarter of 2012 compared to 0.29 percent in the prior year's fourth quarter.
People's United Financial, a diversified financial services company with $28 billion in assets, provides commercial and retail banking, as well as wealth management services through a network of 360 branches in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Vermont, New York, New Hampshire and Maine. Through its subsidiaries, People's United Financial provides equipment financing, brokerage and insurance services. Assets under administration and those under full discretionary management, neither of which are reported as assets of People's United Financial, totaled $13.0 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2012.
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 4
 
Conference Call
On April 19, 2012, at 8 a.m., Eastern Time, People's United Financial will host a conference call to discuss this earnings announcement. The call may be heard through by selecting "Investor Relations" in the "About Us" section on the home page, and then selecting "Conference Calls" in the "News and Events" section. Additional materials relating to the call may also be accessed at People's United Bank's web site. The call will be archived on the web site and available for approximately 90 days.
www.peoples.com
1Q 2012 Financial Highlights
Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 5
 
Commercial Banking
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retail Banking
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc. Reports 1Q Earnings
Page 6
 
Certain statements contained in this release are forward-looking in nature. These include all statements about People's United Financial's plans, objectives, expectations and other statements that are not historical facts, and usually use words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe" and similar expressions. Such statements represent management's current beliefs, based upon information available at the time the statements are made, with regard to the matters addressed. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause People's United Financial's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements. Factors of particular importance to People's United Financial include, but are not limited to: (1) changes in general, national or regional economic conditions; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in loan default and charge-off rates; (4) changes in deposit levels; (5) changes in levels of income and expense in non-interest income and expense related activities; (6) residential mortgage and secondary market activity; (7) changes in accounting and regulatory guidance applicable to banks; (8) price levels and conditions in the public securities markets generally; (9) competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; (10) the successful integration of acquired companies; and (11) changes in regulation resulting from or relating to financial reform legislation. People's United Financial does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - Continued
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS (1)
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-PERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
In addition to evaluating People's United Financial's results of operations in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), management routinely supplements this evaluation with an analysis of certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as the efficiency and tangible equity ratios, tangible book value per share and operating earnings metrics. Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding People's United Financial's underlying operating performance and trends, and facilitates comparisons with the performance of other banks and thrifts. Further, the efficiency ratio and operating earnings metrics are used by management in its assessment of financial performance, including non-interest expense control, while the tangible equity ratio and tangible book value per share are used to analyze the relative strength of People's United Financial's capital position.
The efficiency ratio, which represents an approximate measure of the cost required by People's United Financial to generate a dollar of revenue, is the ratio of (i) total non-interest expense (excluding goodwill impairment charges, amortization of other acquisition-related intangibles, losses on real estate assets and non-recurring expenses) (the numerator) to (ii) net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent ("FTE") basis plus total non-interest income (including the FTE adjustment on bank-owned life insurance ("BOLI") income, and excluding gains and losses on sales of assets other than residential mortgage loans, and non-recurring income) (the denominator). People's United Financial generally considers an item of income or expense to be non-recurring if it is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type incurred within the last two years and is not similar to an item of income or expense of a type reasonably expected to be incurred within the following two years.
Operating earnings exclude from net income those items that management considers to be of such a non-recurring or infrequent nature that, by excluding such items (net of income taxes), People's United Financial's results can be measured and assessed on a more consistent basis from period to period. Items excluded from operating earnings, which include, but are not limited to, merger-related expenses, charges related to executive-level management separation costs, severance-related costs and writedowns of banking house assets, are generally also excluded when calculating the efficiency ratio. Operating earnings per share is calculated by dividing operating earnings by the weighted average number of dilutive common shares outstanding for the respective period. Operating return on average assets is calculated by dividing operating earnings (annualized) by average assets. Operating return on average tangible stockholders' equity is calculated by dividing operating earnings (annualized) by average tangible stockholders' equity. The operating dividend payout ratio is calculated by dividing dividends paid by operating earnings for the respective period.
Operating net interest margin excludes from the net interest margin those items that management considers to be of such an infrequent nature that, by excluding such items, People's United Financial's net interest margin can be measured and assessed on a more consistent basis from period to period. Items excluded from operating net interest margin include, but are not limited to, cost recovery income on acquired loans and changes in the accretable yield on acquired loans stemming from periodic cash flow reassessments. Operating net interest margin is calculated by dividing operating net interest income (annualized) by average earning assets.
The tangible equity ratio is the ratio of (i) tangible stockholders' equity (total stockholders' equity less goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles) (the numerator) to (ii) tangible assets (total assets less goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles) (the denominator). Tangible book value per share is calculated by dividing tangible stockholders' equity by common shares (total common shares issued, less common shares classified as treasury shares and unallocated Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") common shares).
In light of diversity in presentation among financial institutions, the methodologies used by People's United Financial for determining the non-GAAP financial measures discussed above may differ from those used by other financial institutions.
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATION TO GAAP - continued
 
EFFICIENCY RATIO
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATION TO GAAP - continued
 
OPERATING EARNINGS
 
 
 
People's United Financial, Inc.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATION TO GAAP - continued
 
OPERATING RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2


