FILE:COF/COF-8K-20021017125112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5. Other Events.
     (a)  See attached press release.
     (b)  Cautionary Factors
     The attached press release contains forward-looking statements which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     99.1. Press Release of the Company dated October 15, 2002.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
99.1     Press Release of the Company dated October 15, 2002

 
News Release
2980 Fairview Park Drive, Suite 1400, Falls Church, VA 22042-4525
(October 15, 2002)  Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced record earnings for the third quarter of 2002 of $258.8 million, or $1.13 per fully diluted share, versus earnings of $165.3 million, or $0.75 per share, for the comparable period in the prior year. This represents a 51 percent year-over-year increase in earnings per share. Earnings in the second quarter of 2002 were $213.1 million, or $0.92 per fully diluted share. The company also announced that it was raising its target for earnings per share growth for 2002 to 35 percent, up from the previous guidance of 30 percent. The company now expects to report earnings per share of approximately $3.93 for the year ending December 31, 2002. Also, the company maintained its 2003 earnings target at approximately $4.55 per share, which represents a 15 percent increase over the company's expected 2002 earnings per share, and reaffirmed its long-term earnings per share growth target of 20 percent.
Falls Church, Va.
     "Capital One continues to deliver strong financial performance despite the challenging environment," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Assets grew by $3.6 billion in the quarter, profits are up over 50 percent over the same quarter of 2001, and credit quality performed as expected."
     During the quarter, the company changed its financial statement presentation of recoveries for charged-off loan balances. The change was made to comply with the draft guidelines that were recently published by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council with respect to credit card industry account management. Under the company's new presentation, recoveries of the principal portion of charged-off accounts continue to be treated as a reduction of current period charge-offs. Recoveries of finance charges and fees are now reported as revenue instead of a reduction of charge-offs, and are reflected in the appropriate income statement line items.
 
Page 2
Capital One Reports Record First Quarter Earnings
     The change in the treatment of recoveries also resulted in a change to the recoveries estimate used to calculate the company's allowance for loan losses and its estimate for uncollectable finance charge and fee revenue. This change in estimate increased the provision for loan losses by $133 million and increased the amount of finance charges and fees deemed collectible by $83 million. Recoveries recorded in prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform with the new financial statement presentation. The accompanying tables illustrate the overall effects of the new recoveries presentation on income statement items as well as key statistics including charge-off rate, net interest margin, and revenue margin.
     The company increased its allowance for loan losses by $358 million in the third quarter including $133 million due to the new recoveries presentation. The remainder of the allowance increase largely reflected growth in reported loans during the period.
     The managed net charge-off rate decreased to 4.96 percent for the third quarter of 2002 compared with 4.98 percent for the second quarter of 2002. Fifty-seven basis points of the third quarter charge-off rate and 62 basis points of the second quarter charge-off rate was due to the change in financial statement presentation of recoveries. The managed delinquency rate (30+ days) increased to 5.36 percent as of September 30, 2002, compared with 4.54 percent as of June 30, 2002 and 5.20 percent at September 30, 2001.
     Charge-offs are expected to rise in the fourth quarter of this year and the early part of next year due to the seasoning of subprime assets added in the fourth quarter of 2001 and early 2002, as well as the slowing of loan growth. The company expects that its managed charge-off rate will rise to the low-6 percent range in the fourth quarter. (This is consistent with previous guidance that the fourth quarter charge-offs would be in the mid-5 percent range, prior to recoveries reclassification.) The company expects charge-offs to rise to the high-6 percent range in the first half of 2003 and then decline somewhat in the second half of 2003.
     Third quarter 2002 revenue, defined as managed net interest income and non-interest income, rose to $2.6 billion from $2.4 billion in the second quarter of 2002. The company's managed consumer loan balances increased by $3.7 billion in the third quarter to $56.9 billion. The company's managed revenue margin increased by 36 basis points to 17.49 percent in the third quarter of 2002 from 17.13 percent in the second quarter of 2002. This increase reflects both the one-time and ongoing impacts detailed in the accompanying tables.
     Marketing expense for the third quarter of 2002 was $185.8 million, down from $320.4 million in the second quarter of 2002. Reflecting the lower marketing expense, Capital One's accounts declined to 48.2 million from 48.6 million at the end of the second quarter. Other non-interest expenses (excluding marketing) for the third quarter of 2002 were $965.2 million versus $833.2 million for the second quarter
 
Page 2
Capital One Reports Record First Quarter Earnings
of 2002. Annualized operating expenses per account increased to $80 for the third quarter of 2002 from $70 in the prior quarter. The company incurred a number of one-time expenses totaling $110 million, or $9 in annualized operating costs per account.
     "The lower marketing investment in the third quarter reflects our return to a more normal level of loan growth," said Nigel W. Morris, Capital One's President and Chief Operating Officer. "We expect marketing to increase in 2003 as we take advantage of the attractive opportunities that we see in all major areas of our business including US card, installment and auto loans, and our international activities. This quarter clearly demonstrates our ability to grow our business and profitability on a stronger, more diversified business platform."
     The company cautioned that its current expectations for fourth-quarter 2002 and full-year 2003 earnings, and future growth and charge-off expectations, are forward looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: competition in the credit card industry; the actual account and balance growth achieved by the company; the company's ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to fund its operations and future growth; changes in regulation; and general economic conditions affecting consumer income and spending, which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults and charge-offs. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in Capital One's annual and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Capital One's report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001.
     Headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a holding company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank and Capital One, F.S.B., offer consumer lending products. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had 48.2 million accounts and $56.9 billion in managed loans outstanding as of September 30, 2002. Capital One, a 500 company, is one of the largest providers of MasterCard and Visa credit cards in the world. Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 500 index.
Fortune
 
Capital One Financial Corporation Impact of Recoveries Reclassification  Managed (in thousands)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Impact of the Recoveries Reclassification For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2002
(in thousands)(unaudited)
During the third quarter, the company changed its financial statement presentation of recoveries for charged-off loans. The change was made in response to draft guidelines that were recently published by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council with respect to credit card account management. Previously, the company recognized all recoveries of charged-off loans in the allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses. The company now treats the portion of recoveries related to finance charges and fees as revenue. All prior-period recoveries have been reclassified to conform to the current financial statement presentation of recoveries.
In the third quarter, the change in the treatment of recoveries also resulted in a change to the recoveries estimate used to calculate the company's allowance for loan losses and its finance charge and fee revenue.
The tables above illustrate the overall effects of the change in the treatment of recoveries on income statement items as well as key statistics.
 
Capital One Financial Corporation Impact of Recoveries Reclassification  Reported (in thousands)(unaudited)
 
  Risk adjusted margin is total revenue less net charge-offs as a percentage of average earning assets.
(1)
  Includes $110.0 million and $38.8 million of one-time charges in Q3 2002 and Q3 2001, respectively.
(2)
  Includes preferred interests and mandatory convertible securities.
(3)
 
NR  Measure not relevant
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)


