FILE:COF/COF-8K-20030421164225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 5.  Other Events.
     The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 7 and 9 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     Exhibit 99.2 is furnished pursuant to Item 9 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (the "1934 Act")
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     The following disclosure related to Exhibit 99.1 is being filed pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K "Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in accordance with the guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to SEC Release No. 33-8216 dated March 27, 2003.
     On April 21, 2003, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003. A copy of the company's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, interest income, interchange, fees and recoveries generated from the securitized loan portfolio net of charge-offs in excess of the interest paid to investors of asset-backed securitizations are recognized as non-interest income on the "reported" income statement.
     The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements add back the effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans for which the Company has retained significant risk and rewards. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the non-interest income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
     The disclosure on Exhibit 99.2 is furnished pursuant to Item 9 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the 1934 Act.
      Information in this report (including any exhibits) furnished pursuant to Item 9 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the 1934 Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD.
Note:
     
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
     Capital One will hold an earnings conference call April 21, 2003, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com), choose "About Capital One" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through May 9, 2003.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
(1) In accordance with the Company's finance charge and fee revenue recognition policy, the amounts billed to customers but not recognized were as follows: Q1 2003 $519.7 million, Q4 2002 $675.7 million, Q3 2002 $489.6 million, Q2 2002 $574.4 million and Q1 2002 $508.9 million. (2)  Risk adjusted margin is total revenue less net charge-offs as a percentage of average earning assets. (3) Includes $110.0 million of one-time charges in Q3 2002. (4) Includes preferred interests and mandatory convertible securities.
 
 
(1) In accordance with the Company's finance charge and fee revenue recognition policy, the amounts billed to customers but not recognized were as follows: Q1 2003 $519.7 million, Q4 2002 $675.7 million, Q3 2002 $489.6 million, Q2 2002 $574.4 million and Q1 2002 $508.9 million. (2) Risk adjusted margin is total revenue less net charge-offs as a percentage of average earning assets. (3) Includes $110.0 million of one-time charges in Q3 2002. (4) The information in this statistical summary reflects the adjustment to add back the effect of securitized loans. See accompanying schedule  "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures".
 
(1)  The information in this statistical summary supplement reflects the adjustment to add back the effect of securitized loans. See accompanying schedule  "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures".
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2003
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
     The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, interest income, interchange, fees and recoveries generated from the securitized loan portfolio net of charge-offs in excess of the interest paid to investors of asset-backed securitizations are recognized as non-interest income on the "reported" income statement.
     The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements add back the effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans for which the Company has retained significant risk and rewards. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the non-interest income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
(1)  The information in this table reflects the adjustment to add back the effect of securitized loans.
 
(April 21, 2003)  Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced record earnings for the first quarter of 2003, driven primarily by improving credit quality in the company's managed loan portfolio.
McLean, Va.
     Earnings for the first quarter of 2003 were $309.1 million, or $1.35 per share (fully diluted), compared with earnings of $188.0 million, or $0.83 per share, for the first quarter of 2002. Earnings in the fourth quarter of 2002 were $239.7 million, or $1.05 per share.
     "I'm pleased that we have seen the peak in the charge-off rate and I'm confident we will achieve our earnings target of at least $4.55 for the year," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . "The charge-off rate came in at the low end of our indicated range in the first quarter of 2003. We expect somewhat lower charge-offs in the second quarter and lower still in the second half of the year, ending the year in the low six percent range."
     The managed charge-off rate increased to 6.47 percent in the first quarter from 6.21 percent in the previous quarter. The managed delinquency rate declined to 4.97 percent from 5.60 percent at the end of the previous quarter. The improving outlook for charge-offs led the company to lower its Allowance for Loan Losses by $85 million to $1.635 billion, in the first quarter.
     Capital One's managed revenue margin declined to 15.70 percent in the first quarter of 2003 from 16.11 percent in the previous quarter. The managed risk-adjusted margin declined to 9.77 percent from 10.41 percent in the previous quarter. The risk-adjusted margin is expected to remain around ten percent over the next few quarters, as the charge-off rate declines.
     The company's managed loan balances declined by $533 million to $59.2 billion at the end of the first quarter. The number of its accounts declined by 946 thousand to 46.4 million at the end of the first quarter.
 
Page 2
Capital One Reports Record First Quarter Earnings
     "Seasonally, we would expect to experience little or no growth in loan balances in the first quarter," said Nigel W. Morris, Capital One's President and Chief Operating Officer. "For the year we're now looking for 15 to 20 percent growth in managed loans and, because of our shift up-market, we expect little to no growth in accounts."
     Marketing expense for the first quarter of 2003 increased $30.9 million to $241.7 million from $210.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2002. Marketing expenses were $353.5 million in the comparable period of the prior year. Other non-interest expenses (excluding marketing) for the first quarter of 2003 were $931.2 million versus $910.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2002 and $806.4 million in the comparable period of the prior year. Annualized operating cost per account increased to $79 for the first quarter of 2003 from $76 in the prior quarter.
     The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans for which the company has retained significant risk and rewards. For this reason the company believes the managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with newly adopted Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles. Please see the schedule entitled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
     The company cautioned that its current expectations for 2003 earnings, risk-adjusted margin, charge-off rates, and future growth are forward looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: competition in the credit card industry; the actual account and balance growth achieved by the company; the company's ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to fund its operations and future growth; and general economic conditions affecting consumer income and spending, which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults and charge-offs. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in Capital One's annual and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Capital One's report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.
     Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a holding company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank and Capital One, F.S.B., offer consumer lending products. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had 46.4 million managed accounts and $59.2 billion in managed loans outstanding as of March 31, 2003. Capital One, a 500 company, is one of the largest providers of MasterCard and Visa credit cards in the world. Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 500 index.
Fortune
      Note: This release, financial information, a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures and a live Webcast of today's 5:00pm (EDT) analyst conference call is accessible on the Internet on Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "About Capital One" to access the Investor Center to view and download the earnings press release, the reconciliation and other financial information.

 
Exhibit 99.2
News Release
1680 Capital One Drive McLean, VA 22102-3491
(April 21, 2003)  Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) announced today that Nigel W. Morris, until now President and Chief Operating Officer of Capital One, has been named to the newly created post of Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, effective May 1, 2003.
McLean, Va.
     As Vice Chairman, Morris will continue to be responsible for the company's international business and its enterprise-wide risk management activities. He will also continue to actively participate in communicating to the company's key external audiences. Morris' decision to reduce the scope of his responsibilities is based on his desire to have more time to spend with his family and to pursue personal interests. It is the first step toward a departure from an executive management role at the company, which Morris plans to complete at the end of this year.
     In addition, the company announced the creation of an Executive Committee comprised of the heads of key business lines and principal operating and functional groups, which will take on the company's key cross-functional management and operating responsibilities. Morris will serve on this committee in his new role. The Executive Committee will be chaired by Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
     Morris said, "I am grateful to Rich and to the Board for understanding my desire to dial back after having committed fifteen wonderful, successful years to building this company. Capital One has earnings power, capital strength, a steadily improving credit outlook and forward momentum on both the operating and regulatory fronts. Having the wind at our backs gives me the opportunity to initiate this transition now."
     Fairbank added, "Nigel has served this company with extraordinary skill and dedication. Personally, he has been a close and valued partner on the journey we have taken together in creating Capital One. The exceptional management team that we have assembled here is now prepared to write the next chapter of our story. We are confident in our ability to extend Capital One's record of strong performance into the foreseeable future."
     Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a holding company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank and Capital One, F.S.B., offer consumer lending products. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had 46.4 million managed accounts and $59.2 billion in managed loans outstanding as of March 31, 2003. Capital One, a 500 company, is one of the largest providers of MasterCard and Visa credit cards in the world. Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 500 index.
Fortune


