FILE:COF/COF-8K-20030606190412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, Monthly Financial Measures  May 2003, for the month ended May 31, 2003.
      Information in this report (including the exhibit) furnished pursuant to Item 9 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD.
Note:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Capital One Financial Corporation As of and for the month ended May 31, 2003
Reconciliation to GAAP Measures:
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, interest income, interchange, fees and recoveries generated from the securitized loan portfolio net of charge-offs in excess of the interest paid to investors of asset-backed securitizations are recognized as non-interest income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans for which the Company has retained significant risk and rewards. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the non-interest income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
Summary Metrics
(dollars in thousands)
Metric Calculation Details
(1) Includes adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP and adjustments made to reclassify to "managed" loans outstanding the collectible portion of billed finance charge and fee income on the investors' interest in securitized loans excluded from loans outstanding on the "reported" balance sheet in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position, "Accrued Interest Receivable", issued April 14, 2003.


