FILE:COF/COF-8K-20030117090013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events.
     The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 7 and 9 contain forward-looking statements which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     .
Regulatory Developments Update
     On January 8, 2003 the FFIEC released Account Management and Loss Allowance Guidance (the "Guidance"). The Guidance applies to all credit card lending of regulated financial institutions and generally requires that banks properly manage several elements of their credit card lending programs, including line assignments, over-limit practices, minimum payment and negative amortization, workout and settlement programs, and the accounting methodology used for various assets and income items related to credit card loans. The Guidance generally is effective immediately.
     The Company believes that its credit card account management and loss allowance practices are prudent and appropriate for its credit card portfolio and, therefore, are safe, sound, and consistent with the Guidance. The Company is subject to comprehensive supervision and regulation by federal and state bank regulators and its business practices have been the subject of thorough examination by the regulators. The Company has reviewed its account management and loan loss allowance practices in light of the Guidance and has discussed the impact of the Guidance with its regulators. Based on that review and those discussions, the Company believes the Guidance should not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.
     The Company cautions, however, that the Guidance, similar to the other examination guidance, provides wide discretion to the bank regulatory agencies in the application of the Guidance to any particular institution and its account management and loss allowance practices. Accordingly, under the Guidance, bank examiners could require changes in the Company's account management or loss allowance practices in the future.
      Information in this report (including any exhibits) furnished pursuant to Item 9 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD.
Note:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
 

 
News Release
2980 Fairview Park Drive, Suite 1400, Falls Church, VA 22042-4525
(January 16, 2003)  Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced 35 percent earnings per share growth for 2002, driven by a 38 percent increase in year over year revenue and a relatively modest 13 percent increase in operating and marketing expense.
Falls Church, Va.
Earnings were $899.6 million, or $3.93 per share, in 2002 compared with earnings of $642.0 million, or $2.91 per share, in 2001. For the fourth quarter of 2002, earnings were $239.7 million, or $1.05 per share, compared with earnings of $177.7 million, or $.80 per share, for the fourth quarter 2001.
"We are pleased with the changes made to the recently issued FFIEC guidelines on credit card account management and loss allowance practices. We believe that our current practices comply with the guidelines and that these new guidelines should not have a material impact on our financial performance," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Additionally, based on the performance of our portfolio, we reaffirm our previous guidance on charge-offs in 2003, with a slightly improved outlook."
Capital One's managed loan balances increased by 32 percent, to $59.7 billion at December 31, 2002, from $45.3 billion at December 31, 2001. For the year, Capital One added 3.6 million net new accounts, bringing its total accounts to 47.4 million, making it one of the world's largest consumer financial services franchises.
The managed net charge-off rate increased to 6.21 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002 from 4.96 percent in the previous quarter. The managed delinquency rate (30+ days) increased to 5.60 percent at December 31, 2002, compared with 5.36 percent at September 30, 2002. The increases in the charge-off rate and the delinquency rate were consistent with previous indications, and reflected the seasoning of subprime loans added to the portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2001 and early 2002, and the slower growth in the portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2002.
 
The company now expects its managed charge-off rate to increase to the mid-to-high six percent range in the first quarter of 2003 and remain in this range in the second quarter of 2003. In the second half of 2003 the company now expects the charge-off rate to decline to the low-to-mid six percent range.
"Capital One's 2002 earnings performance was achieved while increasing its allowance for loan losses by $880 million and spending approximately the same amount on marketing as last year," said Nigel W. Morris, Capital One's President and Chief Operating Officer. "We expect to grow earnings per share by 15 percent in 2003 as we shift upmarket and increase our marketing to take advantage of attractive opportunities."
Capital One's managed net revenue margin decreased to 16.11 percent, from 17.49 percent in the previous quarter. This decline primarily reflected the company's previously announced strategy of shifting its new business mix further upmarket, which resulted in lower revenue on new business. The quarter-over-quarter revenue margin decline also reflected the absence of a one-time revenue boost in the third quarter due to the reclassification of recoveries in the financial statements. Also, Capital One recorded a $33.4 million write-down on some of its interest-only (I/O) strip assets. This expense was more than offset by $66.7 million in gains on sales of securities from its liquidity portfolio.
Marketing expenses increased to $210.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 from $185.8 million in the previous quarter, as Capital One increased its marketing to the prime and superprime business lines. Operating expenses per account decreased to $76.22 in the fourth quarter from $79.79 in the previous quarter, due to the absence of one-time operating expenses incurred in the third quarter of 2002.
The company also announced it sold approximately $500.0 million of superprime auto loans in the fourth quarter of 2002 and entered into an agreement to sell up to $900 million of subprime auto loans in 2003.
The company cautioned that its current expectations for future earnings, and future charge-off rate expectations, are forward looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: competition in the credit card industry; the actual account and balance growth achieved by the company; the company's ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to fund its operations and future growth; changes in regulation; and general economic conditions affecting consumer income and spending, which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults and charge-offs. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in Capital One's annual and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Capital One's report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001.
 
Headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a holding company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank and Capital One, F.S.B., offer consumer lending products. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had 47.4 million accounts and $59.7 billion in managed loans outstanding as of December 31, 2002. Capital One, a 500 company, is one of the largest providers of MasterCard and Visa credit cards in the world. Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 500 index.
Fortune
Note: This release, financial information and a live Webcast of today's 5:00pm (EDT) analyst conference call is accessible on the Internet on Capital One's home page . Choose "About Capital One" to access the Investor Center to view and download the earnings press release and other financial information.
(http://www.capitalone.com)
 
(1) Risk adjusted margin is total revenue less net charge-offs as a percentage of average earning assets. (2) Includes $110.0 million of one-time charges in Q3 2002. (3) Includes preferred interests and mandatory convertible securities.
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
(1)  The information in this table reflects the adjustment to add back the effect of securitized loans.


