FILE:COF/COF-8K-20040129163951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. .
Other Events
 
(a) See attached Press Release, at Exhibit 99.1.
 
(b) Cautionary Factors
 
This document and the attached press release contain forward-looking statements which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. .
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
99.1.    Press Release of the Company dated January 29, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 29, 2004
 
 
 
 
 Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE:COF) today announced that the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and the Bureau of Financial Institutions of the Commonwealth of Virginia have terminated the informal memorandum of understanding (MOU) with Capital One that had been in place since August 2002.
McLean, VA.
(January 29,
2004)
 
About Capital One
 
Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a holding company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank and Capital One, F.S.B., offer consumer lending products and Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., which offers auto loan products. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had 47.0 million managed accounts and $71.2 billion in managed loans outstanding as of December 31, 2003. Capital One, a 500 company, is one of the largest providers of MasterCard and Visa credit cards in the world. Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 500 index.
Fortune
 


