FILE:COF/COF-8K-20041028191001.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On October 27, 2004, Capital One Financial Corporation appointed Ms. Ann Fritz Hackett to its Board of Directors. Ms. Hackett will fill a newly created seat on the Board and will be submitted to Capital One stockholders in April 2005 for re-election. She will also serve as independent director on the on the Audit and Risk Committee and the Governance and Nominating effective as of October 28, 2004.
 
Ms. Hackett is Director, Chair of the Human Resources Committee and member of the Audit Committee of Woodhead Industries, Inc., publicly traded in NASDAQ under the symbol WDHD. Ms. Hackett left Strategic Planning Associates in 1990, where she held a series of roles culminating with Vice President and Partner, to found Horizon Consulting Group, LLC., where she is a Director. Horizon Consulting Group provides strategic, organizational, marketing and operational advice to clients.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, via Press Release of the same date.
 
Information in this report (including the exhibit) furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD.
Note:
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE:COF) today announced that Ann Fritz Hackett, President of the Horizon Consulting Group, has been appointed to its Board of Directors. Hackett, who will serve on the Board's Audit and Risk Committee and its Governance and Nominating Committee, will fill a newly created seat on the Board, increasing the number of directors from eight to nine, eight of whom are independent of management. Hackett will be nominated for re-election by Capital One stockholders in April 2005.
McLean, Va.  (business Wire)  Oct. 28, 2004 
 
"I am delighted that Ann has joined our Board," said Richard D. Fairbank, Chairman and CEO of Capital One. "She has extensive experience in working with some of the largest and best-known companies in the world. Her expertise and judgment make her a great addition to our Board. She will be a valuable asset to Capital One and a great resource for our executive management team."
 
Hackett founded the Horizon Consulting Group in 1990, which provides consumer product and service companies with innovative strategy, human resources and marketing advice. Prior to launching Horizon, Hackett spent 11 years at Strategic Planning Associates, Inc., where she served as vice president and partner in strategy and human resources working, from their offices in Washington, D.C. and London.
 
Hackett also serves on the board of Woodhead Industries, Inc. and has served on the Board of Trustees at her alma mater, Dartmouth College. Hackett graduated summa cum laude from Dartmouth and received her MBA with distinction from Stanford.
 
About Capital One
 
Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a holding company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank and Capital One, F.S.B., offer consumer lending products and Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., offers automobile and other motor vehicle financing products. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had 47.2 million accounts and $75.5 billion in managed loans outstanding as of September 30, 2004. Capital One, a Fortune 500 company, is one of the largest providers of MasterCard and Visa credit cards in the world. Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 500 index.
 
    Capital One Financial Corporation
Contact:
  Tatiana Stead
  Director, Corporate Media
  703-720-2352
 
    Capital One Financial Corporation
Source:


