FILE:COF/COF-8K-20041115161345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Capital One Financial Corporation, acting through its subsidiary Capital One Services, Inc. ("Capital One" or the "Company"), entered into a services agreement with First Data Corporation, acting through its subsidiary, First Data Resources, Inc. ("First Data"), effective November 8, 2004.
 
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will initially transition to First Data approximately 90 percent of Capital One's volumes of certain production services, including statement and letter printing, card embossing, outbound mail handling and paper payment remittance processing. This agreement will supersede the Company's existing agreements with First Data for similar services. By expanding its relationship with First Data, the Company expects to:
 
 
 
 
The services included within the scope of the agreement will be transitioned to First Data in phases over the course of eight months. The agreement includes service level requirements, audit rights, and obligations to comply with applicable laws.
 
The initial term of the agreement is five years. In addition, the Company can terminate the agreement at its discretion, subject to payment of a termination fee that declines over time, or for cause without payment of any termination fee.
 
As required, the Company will file a copy of the agreement as an exhibit to its Form 10-K filing for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, via Press Release issued on November 9, 2004.
 
Information in this report (including the exhibit) furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD.
Note:
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Capital One Announces Plans to Outsource Production Services Operations
 
MCLEAN, Va.(BUSINESS WIRE)Nov. 9, 2004Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE:COF) today announced that, as part of its previously announced strategy to improve cost efficiencies, the company plans to transition the majority of its production services operations work to a U.S.-based supplier. As a result of this decision, approximately 750 positions at sites in Federal Way, Washington and Richmond, Virginia will be eliminated.
 
The company intends to transition the production service activities from the impacted sites in stages beginning immediately and continuing through the summer of 2005. Approximately 260 positions will be eliminated in Federal Way by early March of 2005, at which time the local Capital One site will be closed. In addition, approximately 490 positions will be eliminated from Richmond-based facilities. Capital One will maintain a production services department in Richmond of approximately 230 associates to manage the new, extended enterprise and retain some specialty work in-house.
 
All of the impacted Capital One associates will receive a minimum of 90 days notice along with extensive career transition services, including one-on-one counseling and career seminars. In addition, all full- time associates will be eligible for severance packages, including retraining assistance and outplacement services.
 
Additionally, as part of the company's agreement with its outsourcing vendor, First Data Corp. (NYSE:FDC) will provide job opportunities and transition assistance to qualified, non-exempt Capital One associates at one of several First Data locations across the country.
 
Capital One is working closely with local community leaders and will honor the company's existing community commitments. Capital One expects a seamless transition for customers.
 
About Capital One
 
Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a holding company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank and Capital One, F.S.B., offer consumer lending products and Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., offers automobile and other motor vehicle financing products. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had 47.2 million accounts and $75.5 billion in managed loans outstanding as of September 30, 2004. Capital One, a Fortune 500 company, is one of the largest providers of MasterCard and Visa credit cards in the world. Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 500 index.
 
CONTACT: Capital One Financial Corporation, McLean
Tatiana Stead
Director, Corporate Media
703-720-2352
 
SOURCE: Capital One Financial Corporation
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding Capital One Financial Corp.'s business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year.


