FILE:COF/COF-8K-20050510175725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, Monthly Charge-off and Delinquency Statistics  April 2005, for the month ended April 30, 2005.
 
Information in this report (including the exhibit) furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD.
Note:
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Capital One Financial Corporation
Monthly Charge-off and Delinquency Statistics
As of and for the month ended April 30, 2005
 
Summary Metrics
(1)(3)
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Measures:
 
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
 
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason, the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
Metric Calculation Details
(1)
(dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 


