FILE:COF/COF-8K-20060818171027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 13, 2006, Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One" or the "Company") filed a Form 8-K announcing the Company had reached a definitive agreement with North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. ("North Fork") pursuant to which North Fork will merge into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company as the surviving corporation.
The Preliminary Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information as of June 30, 2006 and for the six months and year ended June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, in each case giving effect to the Merger, is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
Information set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Capital One and North Fork caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Capital One and North Fork, including future financial and operating results, the new company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of North Fork or Capital One stockholders to approve the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Capital One's and North Fork's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), which are available at the SEC's Web site http://www.sec.gov. Capital One and North Fork disclaim any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
Additional Information About this Transaction
In connection with the proposed merger, Capital One filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that included a joint proxy statement of Capital One and North Fork that also constitutes a prospectus of Capital One. Capital One and North Fork mailed the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective stockholders on or about July 14, 2006. Investors and security holders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus (including all filings subsequent to the date of mailing that are incorporated by reference therein as provided in the joint proxy statement/prospectus) regarding the proposed merger because it contains important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other related documents filed by Capital One and North Fork with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The joint proxy statement/prospectus and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Capital One's website at www.capitalone.com under the heading "Investors" and then under the heading "SEC & Regulatory Filings" or by accessing North Fork's website at www.northforkbank.com under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings".
Participants in this Transaction
Capital One, North Fork and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be soliciting proxies from stockholders in favor of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the proxies in connection with the proposed merger is set forth in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus that was filed with the SEC. You can find information about Capital One's executive officers and directors in Capital One's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 23, 2006. You can find information about North Fork's executive officers and directors in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Capital One or North Fork using the contact information above.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined financial statements of Capital One, Hibernia and North Fork may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined at the beginning of the periods presented. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information shows the impact of the North Fork merger on the combined balance sheets and the Hibernia merger and North Fork merger on the combined statements of income under the purchase method of accounting with Capital One treated as the acquiror. Under this method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of Hibernia and North Fork are recorded by Capital One at their estimated fair values as of the date the respective mergers are completed. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2006 assumes the North Fork merger was completed on that date. The Hibernia merger was completed on November 16, 2005, and as such the actual fair values of the Hibernia assets and liabilities are reflected in the Capital One June 30, 2006 balance sheet. The preliminary unaudited pro forma income statements for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 were prepared assuming the North Fork and Hibernia mergers were completed on January 1, 2005.
It is anticipated that the Hibernia and North Fork mergers will provide Capital One with financial benefits such as possible expense efficiencies and revenue enhancements, among other factors, although no assurances can be given that such benefits will actually be achieved. These benefits have not been reflected in the preliminary unaudited pro forma financial information. As required, the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes adjustments which give effect to events that are directly attributable to the transaction and factually supportable; as such, any planned adjustments affecting the balance sheet, income statement, or shares of common stock outstanding subsequent to the assumed merger completion date are not included. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of each period presented. Note that Hibernia's historical results for 2005 reflect significant one-time negative impacts resulting from the Gulf Coast Hurricanes; 2005 results may not be indicative of future results. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the allocation of the purchase price reflected in the preliminary pro forma condensed combined financial information is subject to adjustment. The preliminary purchase price allocation for the North Fork merger will vary from the actual purchase price allocation that will be recorded upon the completion of the merger based upon changes in the estimated fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired from North Fork. In addition, subsequent to the merger completion dates, there may be further refinements of the purchase price allocation as additional information becomes available.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes of Capital One and North Fork, which are incorporated into this document by reference.
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2006, combines the June 30, 2006 historical balance sheets of Capital One (which reflects completion of the Hibernia merger) and North Fork assuming the companies had been combined on June 30, 2006, on a purchase accounting basis.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Balance Sheets
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement for the six months ended June 30, 2006, combines the historical income statements of Capital One and North Fork assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2005, on a purchase accounting basis.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Income
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement for the year ended December 31, 2005, combines the historical income statements of Capital One, Hibernia, and North Fork assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2005, on a purchase accounting basis.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Income
 
Note 1  Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the merger is included as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005. The historical financial statements of North Fork and Hibernia have been adjusted to reflect reporting reclassifications necessary to conform to the presentation of the historical financial statements of Capital One. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the application of GAAP as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005. The adoption of new or changes to existing GAAP subsequent to the pro forma financial statement dates may result in changes to the presentation of the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, if material. No pro forma adjustment to the carrying value of loans or allowances have been recorded in accordance with the Statement of Position 03-3, Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer, reflecting the insignificant level of North Fork Non-performing assets for the periods presented.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes estimated adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of North Fork at their respective fair values based on management's best estimate using the information available at this time and includes the actual adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of Hibernia at their respective fair values at November 16, 2005, the completion date of the Hibernia merger. The pro forma adjustments may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analysis is performed. The final allocation of the North Fork purchase price will be determined after the merger is completed and after the completion of a final analysis to determine the fair values of North Fork's tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of the closing date. The final purchase price accounting adjustments may differ materially from the pro forma adjustments presented in this document. Increases or decreases in fair value of certain balance sheet amounts and other items of North Fork as compared to the information presented in this document may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in yield and/or amortization of adjusted assets and liabilities.
The pro forma basic and diluted potential common shares were calculated using the actual weighted-average shares outstanding for the Company for the periods presented, plus the incremental shares issued or expected to be issued and the dilutive impact of stock options granted or expected to be granted in connection with the Hibernia and North Fork acquisitions, assuming the transactions occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the mergers been completed at the beginning of the applicable periods presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
North Fork Acquisition
The preliminary pro forma adjustments include purchase price adjustments based on the conversion of each share of North Fork common stock into $31.18 in cash or 0.3467 of a share of Capital One common stock, which is the cash or fraction of a share of Capital One common stock that North Fork stockholders who receive cash or stock, respectively, would receive in the merger for each share of North Fork common stock, assuming the average of the closing prices of Capital One common stock on the NYSE for the five trading days ending the day before the completion of the merger was $89.92, which was the closing price of Capital One common stock on March 10, 2006, the last trading day before announcement of the transaction. The actual amount of cash or fraction of a share of Capital One common stock that North Fork stockholders who receive cash or stock, respectively, in the merger will receive may differ depending on the average of the closing stock prices for Capital One common stock during the five trading days ending the day before completion of the merger. The total estimated consideration of $14.8 billion includes the value of outstanding stock options and will be paid with the issuance of approximately 104.5 million shares of Capital One's common stock and approximately $5.2 billion in cash consideration. Upon completion of the merger, outstanding options and other equity-based awards of North Fork will be exchanged for options and other equity-based awards of Capital One with the number of options, other equity-based awards and option price adjusted for the exchange ratio.
The merger will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and accordingly, the assets acquired (including identifiable intangible assets and goodwill) and liabilities assumed of North Fork will be recognized at fair value on the date the transaction is completed. The merger will qualify as a tax-free reorganization for federal income tax purposes.
Hibernia Acquisition
On November 16, 2005, Capital One acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of Hibernia, a financial holding company with operations in Louisiana and Texas. Hibernia offers a variety of banking products and services, including consumer, commercial and small business loans and demand and term deposit accounts.
The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, and, as such, the assets and liabilities of Hibernia were recorded at their respective fair values as of November 16, 2005. The results of Hibernia's operations were included in Capital One's consolidated statement of income commencing November 16, 2005. The merger qualified as a tax-free reorganization for federal income tax purposes.
The total consideration of $5.0 billion, which included the value of outstanding stock options, was settled through the issuance of 32.9 million shares of Capital One's common stock and payment of $2.2 billion in cash. Under the terms of the transaction, each share of Hibernia common stock was exchanged for $30.46 in cash or 0.3792 shares of Capital One's common stock or a combination of common stock and cash based on the aforementioned conversion rates, based on the average of the closing prices on the NYSE of Capital One's common stock during the five trading days ending the day before the completion of the merger, which was $80.32.
Note 2  Preliminary Pro Forma Adjustments
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the merger includes the preliminary pro forma balance sheet as of June 30, 2006, assuming the merger with North Fork was completed on June 30, 2006. The preliminary pro forma income statements for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 were prepared assuming the mergers with North Fork and Hibernia were completed on January 1, 2005.
North Fork Acquisition Pro Forma Adjustments
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the issuance of approximately 104.5 million shares of Capital One common stock and approximately $5.2 billion in cash consideration. Common stock issued in conjunction with this transaction was valued using the exchange ratio noted above in Note 1  .
Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation
A reconciliation of the excess consideration paid by Capital One over North Fork's net assets acquired ("goodwill") is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hibernia Acquisition Pro Forma Adjustments
The following explanations refer to the pro forma income statement adjustment for the period January 1, 2005 to November 15, 2005, the completion date of the Hibernia merger.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3  North Fork Merger Related Costs
Certain merger related costs are estimated at $180.0 million. These estimated merger related costs will be incurred by Capital One and either treated as an acquisition liability capitalized or expensed as incurred based on the nature of cost and Capital One's accounting policies for these costs. Given the preliminary stages of integration discussions, the accounting for these estimated merger related costs in accordance with EITF 95-3 has not been determined and as such these costs have not been included in the preliminary pro-forma condensed combined balance sheet or income statements.
A summary of these costs, based on Capital One's preliminary estimates, is listed below:
 
Merger related compensation and severance costs include employee severance, compensation arrangements and related employee benefit expenses. Facilities and system costs include costs associated with the rebranding of branch offices. Also reflected are certain technology conversion costs. Refinements to the foregoing estimates may occur subsequent to the completion of the merger.
Note 4  North Fork Core Deposit Intangibles
The purchase accounting adjustments include the establishment of core deposit intangibles of $1.5 billion as of June 30, 2006. The adjustments include the elimination of $96.1 million relating to the North Fork's core deposit intangibles as of June 30, 2006. The $1.5 billion was based on a preliminary valuation by an independent third party using a combination of North Fork specific deposit information and industry specific benchmarks. A final analysis and valuation of the core deposit intangibles will be performed with the assistance of the independent third party upon completion of the merger. The amortization of the core deposit intangibles resulting from the acquisition in the pro forma statement of income for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2005 was assumed to be over a 10-year period using an accelerated amortization method.
The following table summarizes the amortization of the core deposit intangibles made in connection with the acquisition at an effective annual tax rate of 35.0%:
 


