FILE:COF/COF-8K-20060420165003.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 20, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
 
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, First Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.
 
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information About the Capital One  North Fork Transaction
 
In connection with the proposed merger of Capital One and North Fork Bancorporation, Inc., Capital One will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement of Capital One and North Fork that also constitutes a prospectus of Capital One. Capital One and North Fork will mail the joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective stockholders. Investors and security holders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger when it becomes available because it will contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus (when available) and other related documents filed by Capital One and North Fork with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The joint proxy statement/prospectus (when available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Capital One's website at www.capitalone.com under the heading "Investors" and then under the heading "SEC & Regulatory Filings" or by accessing North Fork's website at www.northforkbank.com under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings".
 
Participants in the Capital One  North Fork Transaction
 
Capital One, North Fork and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be soliciting proxies from stockholders in favor of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the stockholders in connection with the proposed merger will be set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus when it is filed with the SEC. You can find information about Capital One's executive officers and directors in Capital One's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 23, 2006. You can find information about North Fork's executive officers and directors in their definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 30, 2005. You can obtain free copies of these documents from the Capital One or North Fork using the contact information above.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
 
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on April 20, 2006, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through May 5, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
The Company is including this schedule to provide additional information regarding the composition of our new Banking segment.
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2006
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, VA 22102-3491
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 20, 2006
 
 Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced that its earnings for the first quarter of 2006 were $883.3 million, or $2.86 per share (diluted), compared with $506.6 million, or $1.99 per share (diluted), for the first quarter of 2005, and $280.3 million, or $0.97 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2005.
McLean, Va. (April 20, 2006)
"Capital One delivered record results in the first quarter across our diversified portfolio of businesses," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We're pleased with the results of our new banking segment. The integration of Hibernia Bank is on track and our de novo branches in Texas continue to deliver great results. The addition of North Fork, expected in the fourth quarter, will further diversify our balance sheet and provide us with a premier growth platform in the largest deposit market in America."
The managed charge-off rate for the company decreased to 2.65 percent in the first quarter of 2006 from 4.13 percent in the first quarter of 2005 and from 4.53 percent in the previous quarter. The company decreased its allowance for loan losses by $115.0 million in the first quarter of 2006, driven largely by decreasing delinquencies and lower loan balances in the quarter. The managed delinquency rate (30+ days) decreased to 2.92 percent as of March 31, 2006 from 3.45 percent as of the end of March 31, 2005 and from 3.24 percent as of December 31, 2005.
Managed loans at March 31, 2006 were $103.9 billion, up $22.3 billion, or 27 percent, from March 31, 2005. This includes organic growth as well as $16.3 billion of loans acquired through Hibernia in November 2005. Managed loans decreased $1.6 billion, or two percent from the previous quarter due to normal seasonality of credit card loan balances. The company expects that managed loans will grow at a rate of between seven and nine percent during 2006, excluding the loan growth that will come with the acquisition of North Fork.
Capital One's managed revenue margin decreased to 11.30 percent in the first quarter of 2006 from 12.50 percent in the first quarter of 2005, primarily due to the addition of Hibernia's loan
Capital One Reports First Quarter Earnings
Page 2
portfolio. The company's managed revenue margin was 12.06 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005. Return on managed assets for the first quarter of 2006 was 2.62 percent versus 2.04 percent in the first quarter of 2005, and 0.94 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005.
First quarter marketing expenses increased $12.0 million to $323.8 million from $311.8 million in the first quarter of 2005, and decreased $123.6 million from the fourth quarter of 2005. Annualized operating expenses as a percentage of average managed loans decreased to 4.78 percent in the first quarter of 2006 from 4.98 percent in the first quarter of 2005 and from 5.27 percent in the previous quarter.
First quarter pre-tax income was positively impacted by the $83.8 million sale of a combination of company originated and previously purchased charged-off loan portfolios. Additionally, the company realized a $34.9 million tax benefit related to resolution of a federal tax audit for the years 2000 through 2002.
"We are affirming our earnings guidance of between $7.40 and $7.80 per share (diluted) for 2006, taking into account both strong first quarter earnings and the expected close of the North Fork acquisition in the fourth quarter," said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "We continue to expect stability in return on managed assets in 2006 as decreases in revenue margin are expected to be offset by reductions in provision expense and operating expenses as a percent of assets."
Segment results
The US Card business net income in the first quarter of 2006 was $602.8 million, compared with $458.2 million in the first quarter of 2005, and $237.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. Overall performance in the segment was driven principally by continued improvement in credit trends. Managed loans at March 31, 2006 were $47.1 billion, up $512.9 million, or one percent, from March 31, 2005, and down $2.3 billion, or five percent from the prior quarter, reflecting the normal seasonality of credit card loan balances. The managed charge-off rate decreased to 2.93 percent in the first quarter of 2006 from 4.73 percent in the first quarter of 2005 and 5.70 percent in the previous quarter. We expect credit card charge-offs to return to more normal levels late in the year as the effects of the bankruptcy filing spike dissipate.
Results in the auto business segment this quarter reflect continued growth and strong credit, and the addition of the $2.9 billion Hibernia auto portfolio. Net income in the first quarter of 2006 was $69.4 million, compared with $35.6 million in the first quarter of 2005, and $8.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. Auto loan originations during the quarter were $2.9 billion, up $907.4 million, or
Capital One Reports First Quarter Earnings
Page 3
45 percent, from the prior year's first quarter, and up $377.2 million, or 15 percent from the fourth quarter 2005. The managed charge-off rate decreased to 2.35 percent in the first quarter of 2006 from 2.89 percent in the first quarter of 2005 and 3.32 percent in the previous quarter.
Solid results in the Global Financial Services segment were led by strong growth and credit performance in its North American businesses. Net income in the first quarter of 2006 was $113.5 million, compared with $70.5 million in the first quarter of 2005, and $7.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. Managed loans during the quarter were $23.7 billion, up $2.0 billion, or nine percent, from the prior year's first quarter, and up $346.0 million, or two percent from the fourth quarter of 2005. The managed charge-off rate increased to 3.63 percent in the first quarter of 2006 from 3.55 percent in the first quarter of 2005 and decreased from 4.33 percent in the previous quarter.
Capital One's new banking segment includes most of the historical business of Hibernia and Capital One's branchless deposit business, as well as integration expenses, corporate allocations, and purchase accounting impacts. It specifically excludes, however, Hibernia originated auto loans, which are now reported in our auto business segment. Banking segment net income in the first quarter of 2006 was $43.3 million. Total deposits at the end of the quarter were $35.4 billion. The company opened three new branches in the quarter and remains on track to open 40 new branches in 2006. During the first quarter, the company made great progress on the integration of Hibernia and remains poised to complete the brand conversion next week. It continues to expect integration costs and synergies to be greater than original estimates.
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and on its Form 8-K dated April 20, 2006 for first quarter earnings, return on assets, loan growth rates, operating costs, revenue margins, charge-off rates, branch growth, integration costs and synergies, and the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Capital One and North Fork, including future financial and operating results, and the company's plans, objectives, expectations and
Capital One Reports First Quarter Earnings
Page 4
intentions are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the proposed acquisition of North Fork on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of Capital One or North Fork stockholders to approve the transaction; the risk that the businesses from previous or pending acquisitions will not be integrated successfully and that the cost savings and other synergies from such acquisitions may not be fully realized; continued intense competition from numerous providers of products and services which compete with Capital One's businesses; changes in our aggregate accounts and balances, and/or number of customers, and the growth rate and composition thereof; the company's ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to fund its operations and future growth; changes in the reputation of the credit card industry and/or the company with respect to practices or products; the success of the company's marketing efforts; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operating plans; and general economic conditions affecting interest rates and consumer income, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, and charge-offs and deposit activity; the long-term impact of the Gulf Coast hurricanes on the impacted regions, including the amount of property and credit losses, the amount of investment, including deposits, in the region, and the pace and magnitude of economic recovery in the region. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in Capital One's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Capital One's report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.
Additional Information About the Capital One  North Fork Transaction
In connection with the proposed merger of Capital One and North Fork Bancorporation, Inc., Capital One will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement of Capital One and North Fork that also constitutes a prospectus of Capital One. Capital One and North Fork will mail the joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective stockholders. Investors and security holders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger when it becomes available because it will contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus (when available) and other related documents filed by Capital One and North Fork with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The joint proxy statement/prospectus (when available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Capital One's website at www.capitalone.com under the heading "Investors" and then under the heading "SEC & Regulatory Filings" or by accessing North Fork's website at www.northforkbank.com under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings".
Participants in the Capital One  North Fork Transaction
Capital One, North Fork and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be soliciting proxies from stockholders in favor of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the stockholders in connection with the proposed merger will be set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus when it is filed with the SEC. You can find information about Capital One's executive officers and directors in Capital One's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 23, 2006. You can find information about
Capital One Reports First Quarter Earnings
Page 5
North Fork's executive officers and directors in their definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 30, 2005. You can obtain free copies of these documents from the Capital One or North Fork using the contact information above.
About Capital One
Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation () is a financial holding company, with more than 316 locations in Texas and Louisiana. Its principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank, Capital One, F.S.B., Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., and Hibernia National Bank (), offer a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had $47.8 billion in deposits and $103.9 billion in managed loans outstanding as of March 31, 2006. Capital One, a Fortune 500 company, trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 500 index.
www.capitalone.com
www.hibernia.com
NOTE: First quarter 2006 financial results, SEC Filings, and first quarter earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom left corner of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.



