FILE:COF/COF-8K-20060119162800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On January 19, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
 
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, Fourth Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended December 31, 2005.
 
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
 
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on January 19, 2006, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through February 2, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended December 31, 2005
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
 
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
Reported
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
Managed
(1)
 
 
News Release
 
 
1680 Capital One Drive McLean, VA 22102-3491
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 19, 2006
 
 
 
 Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced earnings per share (diluted) for 2005 of $6.73. Additionally, the company provided earnings guidance for 2006 of between $7.40 and $7.80 per share (diluted).
McLean, Va. (January 19, 2006)
 
Earnings were $1.8 billion, or $6.73 per share (diluted), for the year compared with $1.5 billion or $6.21 per share (diluted), in 2004. Earnings for the fourth quarter of 2005 were $280.3 million, or $.97 per share (diluted), compared with $195.1 million, or $.77 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2004, and $491.1 million, or $1.81 per share (diluted), in the previous quarter.
 
Current period results include a $30.6 million contribution to net income from the acquisition of Hibernia Corporation, which was completed on November 16, 2005.
 
"Capital One delivered another year of solid results across our diversified consumer financial services businesses and is well-positioned for continued growth and profitability in 2006," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "With the addition of Hibernia, we have further expanded our broad portfolio of lending and deposit products, as well as our distribution channels, to better serve our customers."
 
Managed loans at December 31, 2005 were $105.5 billion, up $25.7 billion, or 32 percent, from December 31, 2004. This includes organic growth in the quarter of $4.4 billion and $16.3 billion of loans acquired through Hibernia. Excluding the impact of Hibernia, managed loans grew 12 percent in 2005, in line with expectations. The company expects that managed loans will grow at a rate of between 7 and 9 percent during 2006.
 
The managed charge-off rate increased to 4.53 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005 from 4.14 percent in the previous quarter, and 4.37 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004, principally driven by the unusually high volume of bankruptcy filings in October in advance
 
Capital One Reports Fourth Quarter Earnings
Page 2
 
of the effective date of the new bankruptcy legislation. The company built its allowance for loan losses by $126.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2005, driven largely by the growth in reported loans.
 
The managed delinquency rate (30+ days) decreased to 3.24 percent as of December 31, 2005, driven largely by the addition of Hibernia loans to the portfolio. The delinquency rate decreased from 3.73 percent as of the end of the previous quarter and from 3.82 percent as of December 31, 2004.
 
Capital One's managed revenue margin decreased to 12.06 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005 from 12.54 percent in the previous quarter, primarily due to the addition of Hibernia's loan portfolio. The company's managed revenue margin was 12.66 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004. Return on managed assets for 2005 of 1.72 percent remained consistent with 1.73 percent in 2004.
 
"Expectations for continued steady growth in 2006 allow us to provide earnings guidance of between $7.40 and $7.80 per share (diluted) for 2006," said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "We also expect continued stability in return on managed assets in 2006 as decreases in revenue margin are expected to be offset primarily by reductions in provision expense and also by reductions in operating costs as a percent of assets."
 
Fourth quarter marketing expenses increased $103.7 million to $447.4 million from $343.7 million in the previous quarter and decreased $63.7 million from the fourth quarter of 2004. Marketing expenses for 2005 were $1.4 billion, up three percent over the $1.3 billion in marketing expenses in 2004.
 
Annualized operating expenses as a percentage of average managed loans increased to 5.27 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005, from 4.88 percent in the previous quarter and decreased from 5.44 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
 
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and on its Form 8-K dated January 19, 2006 for 2006 earnings, return on
Capital One Reports Fourth Quarter Earnings
Page 3
 
assets, loan growth rates, operating costs, and the company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: continued intense competition from numerous providers of products and services which compete with our businesses; changes in our aggregate accounts and balances, and the growth rate and composition thereof; the company's ability to continue to diversify its assets; the company's ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to fund its operations and future growth; changes in the reputation of the credit card industry and/or the company with respect to practices or products; the success of the company's marketing efforts; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operating plans; and general economic conditions affecting interest rates and consumer income and spending, which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, and charge-offs; the risks that the Hibernia businesses will not be integrated successfully and that the cost savings and other synergies from the Hibernia transaction may not be fully realized; the long-term impact of the Gulf Coast hurricanes on the impacted region, including the amount of property and credit losses, the amount of investment, including deposits, in the region, and the pace and magnitude of economic recovery in the region.
 
A discussion of these and other factors can be found in Capital One's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Capital One's report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005.
 
About Capital One
 
Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank, Capital One, F.S.B., Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., and Hibernia National Bank (www.hibernia.com), offer a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had $47.9 billion in deposits and $105.5 billion in managed loans outstanding as of December 31, 2005. Capital One, a Fortune 500 company, trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 500 index.
 
 
NOTE: Fourth quarter 2005 financial results, SEC Filings, and fourth quarter earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom right corner of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.



