FILE:COF/COF-8K-20061201152135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On December 1, 2006, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 12, 2006 (the "Merger Agreement"), between Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One") and North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. ("North Fork"), Capital One and North Fork completed the merger (the "Merger") in which North Fork merged with and into Capital One, with Capital One as the surviving corporation.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each share of North Fork common stock outstanding at the effective time of the merger was converted into the right to receive either $28.144 in cash or 0.3692 of a share of Capital One common stock, at the election of each North Fork stockholder, subject to proration due to limitations on the aggregate amount of cash to be paid by Capital One in the merger and depending on the election of other North Fork stockholders, as specified in the Merger Agreement. Capital One will pay approximately $13.2 billion in cash and Capital One common stock to North Fork stockholders.
This description of the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Merger and describing the merger consideration to be paid to the North Fork stockholders is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) Capital One has expanded its board of directors to ten directors. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Capital One appointed John Adam Kanas to Capital One's board of directors, effective immediately following the completion of the Merger. Mr. Kanas is in the class of directors with its term expiring at the 2009 annual meeting of Capital One stockholders. Consistent with Capital One's policy, Mr. Kanas, who will also be an executive officer of the company, will receive no compensation for his service as a director.
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of John Adam Kanas to the board of directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial statements of businesses acquired.
The financial statements required by this item will be filed by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K no later than 71 days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
 
(b) Pro forma financial information.
The pro forma financial information required by this item required by this item will be filed by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K no later than 71 days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, VA 22102-3491
 
- Capital One Financial (NYSE:COF) today announced that it has completed its acquisition of North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. As a result of the $13.2 billion stock and cash transaction, Capital One is the 11th largest bank in the United States, based on deposits, and the third-largest retail depository institution in the metro New York region.
McLean, VA (December 1, 2006)
North Fork, headquartered in New York, provides a broad range of deposit and lending services for consumer, commercial, and small business customers.
"The combination of Capital One and North Fork brings together the strengths of national lending and local banking," said Richard D. Fairbank, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Capital One. "I am particularly pleased to welcome John Kanas, along with North Fork's experienced management team and talented associates, to Capital One. John and his team have a proven ability to compete and win in the New York banking market, and they have a great track record of serving their customers and communities. With our national lending businesses, our strong banking franchises in Louisiana and Texas, and our new partners at North Fork, we are well-positioned to win in each of our markets, and to deliver profitable growth and enduring shareholder value."
Kanas will be the president of Capital One's banking business and join Capital One's Board of Directors. Kanas previously served as North Fork's Chairman, President and CEO.
"This transaction is about maintaining the continuity of the great business model and customer relationships that North Fork has built," said Kanas. "With Capital One, we are building an even stronger bank that will benefit our customers and our communities. Our customers will continue to enjoy the same personalized service and experienced local bankers they trust, along with a broader range of products and services to meet their financial needs."
Capital One and North Fork announced their intention to merge in March 2006.
COF Completes NFB Acquisition
Page 2
Final Merger Consideration
Based on final election results and applying the proration provisions set forth in the merger agreement, North Fork stockholders will receive the following merger consideration:
 
 
 
Under the merger agreement, fractional shares of Capital One common stock will not be issued. Instead, North Fork stockholders will receive cash based on the average closing price of Capital One common stock of $76.238 for the five-day period ending November 30, 2006.
Of the 466,346,295 shares of North Fork common stock outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the merger, approximately:
 
 
 
The total consideration paid by Capital One of approximately $13.2 billion was comprised of the following:
 
 
 
COF Completes NFB Acquisition
Page 3
 
About Capital One
Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company, with more than 693 locations in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Texas and Louisiana that offer a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. As of September 30, 2006, Capital One Bank, Capital One, F.S.B., Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., and Capital One, N.A. collectively had $112.2 billion in managed loans and $47.6 billion in deposits. Its newly acquired subsidiary, North Fork Bank, had $40.9 billion in managed loans and $36.5 billion in deposits. Capital One, a Fortune 500 company, trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
Forward-looking statements
The company cautions that statements in this press release regarding, among other things, the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Capital One and North Fork and the company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions are forward-looking statements and speak only as of the date of this report. Various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements, including: the risk that the company's acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully and that the cost savings and other synergies from such acquisitions may not be fully realized; disruption from the North Fork transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; continued intense competition from numerous providers of products and services which compete with the company's businesses; changes in our aggregate accounts and balances, and the growth rate and composition thereof; the company's ability to diversify its assets; general economic conditions affecting interest rates and consumer income, spending, and savings, which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, and charge-offs and deposit activity; and the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in Capital One's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Capital One's report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.


