FILE:COF/COF-8K-20060503170517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a -12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d -2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e -4(c))
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Stockholder Approval of Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
At the Capital One Financial Corporation's ("Capital One" or the "Company") annual meeting of stockholders held on April 27, 2006, the stockholders of the Company, upon the recommendation of Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), approved the Amended and Restated Capital One Financial Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Amended and Restated 2004 SIP"). The amendments, among other things, make the following changes:
 
The foregoing summary description of the Amended and Restated 2004 SIP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the Amended and Restated 2004 SIP, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. For additional information regarding the Amended and Restated 2004 SIP, refer to Proposal 3 (Approval and Adoption of the Amended and Restated Capital One 2004 Stock Incentive Plan) on pages 38-45 of the Company's 2006 Proxy Statement, as filed with the SEC on March 23, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Approval of 2006 Base Salary, Bonus and Long Term Incentive Awards
On April 27, 2006, the Board approved a number of compensation related items for its named executive officers (the "Named Executive Officers") as detailed below. These details exclude the Chief Executive Officer, whose 2006 compensation was determined on December 20, 2005 and was summarized in a Form 8-K filed by Capital One on December 23, 2005. The compensation structure for the Named Executive Officers includes Base Salary, Annual Bonus and Long-Term Incentive Awards. The overall total 2006 compensation structure and target amounts approved for the Named Executive Officers did not increase materially over the total compensation paid to such officers in 2005. Increases in 2006 total target compensation for the Named Executive Officers, subject to actual company and individual performance over the course of the year, ranged from 6% to 10%. For 2006, however, the compensation structure was changed, to reflect current market trends for executive compensation, by reducing the portion of total compensation paid through long-term incentive awards and correspondingly increasing the portion paid through base salary and annual bonus.
The Board approved 2006 base salaries for its Named Executive Officers that reflected increases of between 5% to 20% over 2005 base salaries.
Base Salary:
The Board approved the performance metrics for the 2006 Annual Bonus Program. The financial metrics include the Company's earnings per share (EPS) compared to its peer group, and the Company's performance compared to achievement of its annual operating plan. Annual bonuses for Capital One's Named Executive Officers are designed to reward both financial performance as well as other key performance metrics. Each executive's target opportunity is based on his or her position and scope of responsibilities. Bonus payments are based on both company and individual performance, with greater emphasis on company performance for Named Executive Officers. The company performance component payout may range from 0% to 200% of the target amount, and the individual performance component may range from 0% to 150% of the target amount.
Annual Bonus:
The 2006 annual bonus payments will be based on performance for the year ending December 31, 2006. At present, it is expected that 2006 annual bonus payments to the Company's Named Executive Officers will be made in March 2007, and the Named Executive Officer must be continuously employed by the Company through the date of payment to be eligible to receive such payment.
The Board approved a vehicle mix for the delivery of long-term incentive awards to Named Executive Officers to consist of 60% stock options and 40% restricted stock. Payouts on long-term incentive awards may range from 0%125% of the target amount, in all cases depending on individual performance.
Long-Term Incentive Awards:
Item 5.05 Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
On April 27, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company amended the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code of Conduct"), which applies to all its directors, officers and employees. The summary of the amendments to the Code of Conduct that are briefly described below is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amended Code of Conduct, which is filed as Exhibit 14.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The amended Code of Conduct will also be posted on the corporate governance
 
page of the Corporation's website at .
www.capitalone.com/investors/
The following amendments were made to the Code of Conduct: corporate titles were updated; language was added to reflect Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") Section 19 requirements and to clarify that associates must report certain convictions to the Company; language was added to state that the Company has the right to conduct ongoing background screening of associates; and language was modified to reflect new points of contact for associates should questions regarding the Code of Conduct arise. The amendments also included technical, administrative or other non-substantive word changes in other sections of the Code of Conduct.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Duration
. The Company establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"), as set forth in this document, as it may be amended from time to time.
1.1 Establishment
The Plan permits the grant of Cash-Based Awards, Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Annual Incentive Pool Awards, and Other Stock-Based Awards.
The Plan shall become effective upon shareholder approval (the "Effective Date") and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.
. The purpose of the Plan is to promote the interests of the Company and its shareholders by strengthening the Company's ability to attract, motivate, and retain Associates, Directors and Third Party Service Providers of the Company, its Affiliates and Subsidiaries upon whose judgment, initiative, and efforts the financial success and growth of the business of the Company largely depend, and to provide an additional incentive for such individuals through stock ownership and other rights that promote and recognize the financial success and growth of the Company and create value for shareholders.
1.2 Purpose of the Plan
. Unless sooner terminated as provided herein, the Plan shall terminate ten years from the Effective Date. After the Plan is terminated, no new Awards may be granted but Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the Plan's terms and conditions.
1.3 Duration of the Plan
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3. Administration
. The Committee shall be responsible for administering the Plan, subject to this Article 3 and the other provisions of the Plan. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other persons, any of whom may be an Associate or Third Party Service Provider, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon Participants, the Company, and all other interested persons.
3.1 General
. The Committee shall have full and exclusive discretionary power to interpret the terms and the intent of the Plan and any Award Agreement or other agreement or document ancillary to or in connection with the Plan or any Award, to determine eligibility for Awards and to adopt such rules, regulations, forms, instruments, and guidelines for administering the Plan as the Committee may deem necessary or proper. Such authority shall include, but not be limited to, selecting Award recipients, establishing all Award terms and conditions, including the terms and conditions set forth in Award Agreements, and, subject to Article 17, adopting modifications and amendments to the Plan or any Award Agreement, including without limitation, any that are necessary to comply with the laws of the countries and other jurisdictions in which the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries operate.
3.2 Authority of the Committee
 
. The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more officers or management committees of the Company, and/or its Subsidiaries and Affiliates or to one or more agents or advisors such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or any person to whom it has delegated duties or powers as aforesaid may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such person may have under the Plan. The Committee may, by resolution, authorize one or more officers or management committees of the Company to do one or more of the following on the same basis as can the Committee: (a) designate Associates to be recipients of Awards; (b) designate Third Party Service Providers to be recipients of Awards; and (c) determine the size of any such Awards; provided, however, (i) the Committee shall not delegate such responsibilities to any such officer or management committee for Awards granted to a Director, an Associate that is considered an Insider or an Associate that is considered a Covered Employee (or who, in the sole determination of the Committee, may become a Covered Employee); (ii) the resolution providing such authorization sets forth the total number of Awards such officer(s) or management committee(s) may grant and any other restrictions that the Committee may deem appropriate or advisable; and (iii) the officer(s) or management committee(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated.
3.3 Delegation
. To the fullest extent permitted from time to time by applicable law, subject to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws (as each may be amended from time to time), neither the Company nor any member of the Committee shall be liable for any action, omission, or determination of the Committee relating to the Plan or any Award, and the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Committee and each other person to whom any duty or power relating to the administration or interpretation of the Plan or any Award has been delegated against any cost or expense (including counsel fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the approval of the Committee) arising out of any such action, omission or determination relating to the Plan or any Award.
3.4 No Liability; Indemnity
. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan (including without limitation Section 20.11 hereof), the Committee may enter into agreements with third parties pursuant to which such third parties may issue Awards to the Participants in lieu of the Company's issuance thereof or assume the obligations of the Company under any Awards previously issued by the Company, in any case on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
3.5 Third Party Agreements
. The Committee shall have the authority to determine in its discretion whether a Participant's placement by the Company, an Affiliate or a Subsidiary on military or sick leave or other authorized leave of absence will be considered a termination of employment or services as a Director or Third Party Service Provider or a continuation of the employment or service relationship.
3.6 Determination of Termination of Employment or Service
In addition, the Committee shall have the authority to determine whether to treat the service of a Participant who ceases to be an Associate but continues to be a Director or Third Party Service Provider as a continuation of Participant's employment relationship or as a termination of employment for purposes of the Plan or any outstanding Award.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if a Participant is employed by, or provides services as a Third Party Service Provider to, an entity that ceases to be an Affiliate or a Subsidiary as the result of a corporate event or transaction, for purposes of any Award under the Plan, such Participant shall be deemed to have had his or her employment or services as a Third Party Service Provider terminated by the Company, its Affiliates and Subsidiaries at the time of such cessation.
Article 4. Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards
. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4 herein:
4.1 Number of Shares Available for Awards
 
 
 
 
 
.
4.2 Share Usage
 
 
 
 
 
. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4 herein, the following limits (each an "Annual Award Limit," and, collectively, "Annual Award Limits") shall apply to grants of such Awards under the Plan:
4.3 Annual Award Limits
 
 
 
 
Performance Shares shall be two million (2,000,000) Shares, or an amount equal to the value of two million (2,000,000) Shares, as applicable, plus the number of Shares under the Participant's Annual Award Limit relating to Performance Units and Performance Shares with respect to which Performance Units and Performance Shares were not granted determined as of the close of the previous Plan Year.
 
 
 
. In the event of any corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of Shares, exchange of Shares, dividend in kind, extraordinary cash dividend or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee, in its sole discretion, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under the Plan, may substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under the Plan or under particular forms of Awards, the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Option Price or Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the Annual Award Limits, and other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards.
4.4 Adjustments in Authorized Shares
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may also make appropriate adjustments in the terms of any Awards under the Plan to reflect or related to such corporate events or transactions, changes or distributions and to modify any other terms of outstanding Awards, including modifications of performance goals and changes in the length of Performance Periods. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding upon Participants, the Company, and all other interested persons.
Subject to the provisions of Article 17, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize under the Plan the issuance of Awards or the assumption of awards granted under plans of other entities in connection with any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate, subject to compliance with the ISO rules under Section 422 of the Code, where applicable, and any other applicable laws or stock exchange rules.
Article 5. Eligibility and Participation
. Individuals eligible to participate in the Plan include all Associates and Directors. Third Party Service Providers are also eligible to participate in the Plan.
5.1 Eligibility
. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible individuals those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine, in its sole discretion, the nature of, any and all terms permissible by law, and the amount of each Award.
5.2 Actual Participation
. Notwithstanding any other provision herein (including without limitation Section 20.11), in lieu of making Awards directly to Associates, Directors or Third Party Service Providers under the Plan, the Committee may make Awards under the Plan through or to a trust or other funding vehicle which in turn makes Awards to Participants or which issues interests in Awards held by it to Participants, in any case on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
5.3 Trusts and Other Funding Vehicles
Article 6. Stock Options
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion; provided that ISOs may be granted only to eligible Associates of the Company or of any parent or subsidiary corporation (as permitted by Code Section 422 of the Code and the regulations thereunder). Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee shall not grant Options containing, or amend Options previously granted to include, reload features providing for the automatic grant of Options with respect to the number of already owned Shares delivered by the Participant to exercise Options. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee may grant Options in satisfaction of the Company's obligation to issue stock options pursuant to stock options with reload features granted under the Prior Plans.
6.1 Grant of Options
 
. Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the maximum duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an Option shall become vested and exercisable (including the effect, if any, of a Change of Control, death, Disability or Retirement), the Date of Grant and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or a NQSO.
6.2 Award Agreement
. The Option Price for each grant of an Option shall be as determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement. The Option Price may include (but not be limited to) an Option Price based on one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the Date of Grant, an Option Price that is set at a premium to the FMV of the Shares on the Date of Grant, or is indexed to the FMV of the Shares on the Date of Grant, with the index determined by the Committee, in its discretion; provided, however, the Option Price must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the Date of Grant.
6.3 Option Price
. Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, that the Committee may extend the term of any Option that would otherwise expire at a time when the Participant is not permitted by applicable law or Company policy to exercise such Option; and provided, further, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10
6.4 Duration of Options
th
) anniversary of its Date of Grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for Options granted to Participants outside the United States, the Committee has the authority to grant Options that have a term greater than ten (10) years.
.
6.5 Limitations on Grant of Incentive Stock Options
 
 
. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which terms and restrictions need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.
6.6 Exercise of Options
. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee, or by complying with any alternative procedures which may be authorized by the Committee, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares.
6.7 Payment
A condition of the issuance of the Shares as to which an Option shall be exercised shall be the payment of the Option Price. The Option Price of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the Option Price (provided that the Shares that are tendered must have been held by the Participant for at least six (6) months prior to their tender to satisfy the Option Price or have been purchased on the open market (not pursuant to any Company plan)); (c) by a combination of (a) and (b); (d) a cashless (broker-assisted) exercise in accordance with procedures approved by the Committee; or (e) any other method approved or accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Subject to any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of written notification of exercise and full payment (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding), the Company shall deliver to the Participant evidence of book entry Shares, or upon the Participant's request, Share certificates in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, all payments under all of the methods indicated above shall be paid in United States dollars.
 
. The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, minimum holding period requirements, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, or under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
6.8 Restrictions on Share Transferability
. Each Participant's Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's employment or provision of services as a Director or Third Party Service Provider to the Company, its Affiliates and/or Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
6.9 Termination of Employment or Service
.
6.10 Transferability of Options
 
 
. If any Participant shall make any disposition of Shares issued pursuant to the exercise of an ISO under the circumstances described in Section 421(b) of the Code (relating to certain disqualifying dispositions), such Participant shall notify the Company of such disposition within ten (10) days thereof.
6.11 Notification of Disqualifying Disposition
. Regardless of the terms of any Award Agreement, the Committee shall have the right to substitute SARs for outstanding Options granted to any Participant, provided the substituted SARs call for settlement by the issuance of Shares, and the terms of the substituted SARs and economic benefit of such substituted SARs are at least equivalent to the terms and economic benefit of the Options being replaced.
6.12. Substituting SARs
Article 7. Stock Appreciation Rights
. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these forms of SARs.
7.1 Grant of SARs
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs. Any SAR granted in connection with an Option may be granted at the same time as its related Option is granted or at any time prior to the exercise, expiration or cancellation of its related Option.
The Grant Price for each grant of a Freestanding SAR shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement. The Grant Price may include (but not be limited to) a Grant Price based on one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the Date of Grant, a Grant Price that is set at a premium to the FMV of the Shares on the Date of Grant, or is indexed to the FMV of the Shares on the Date of Grant, with the index determined by the Committee, in its discretion; provided, however, the Grant Price must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the Date of Grant. The Grant Price of Tandem SARs shall be equal to the Option Price of the related Option.
. Each SAR shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine (including the effect, if any, of a Change of Control, death, Disability or Retirement).
7.2 SAR Agreement
 
. The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion; provided, however, that the Committee may extend the term of any SAR that would otherwise expire at a time when the Participant is not permitted by applicable law or Company policy to exercise such SAR; provided, further, except as determined otherwise by the Committee and specified in the SAR Award Agreement, no SAR shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10
7.3 Term of SAR
th
) anniversary of its Date of Grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for SARs granted to Participants outside the United States, the Committee has the authority to grant SARs that have a term greater than ten (10) years.
. Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes, including a requirement that a Freestanding SAR be exercised only at the same time as a related Option.
7.4 Exercise of Freestanding SARs
. Tandem SARs may be exercised with respect to all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then exercisable.
7.5. Exercise of Tandem SARs
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO: (a) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (b) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (c) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO.
. Upon the exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
7.6 Payment of SAR Amount
 
 
At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, or in any other manner approved by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee's determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR; provided, however, that the Committee may reserve the right to determine the form of such payout at any time subsequent to the grant, at which time it will give notice to the Participant.
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services as a Director or Third Party Service Provider to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
7.7 Termination of Employment or Service
. Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise at any time by the Committee, no SAR granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise determined at any time by the Committee, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant. With respect to those SARs, if any, that are permitted to be transferred to another person, references in the Plan to exercise of the SAR by the Participant or payment of any amount to the Participant shall be deemed to include, as determined by the Committee, the Participant's permitted transferee.
7.8 Nontransferability of SARs
The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of an SAR granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable or desirable. These restrictions may include, but shall not be limited to, a requirement that the Participant hold the Shares received upon exercise of an SAR for a specified period of time.
7.9 Other Restrictions.
Article 8. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts as the Committee shall determine. Restricted Stock Units shall be similar to Restricted Stock except that no Shares are actually awarded to the Participant on the Date of Grant.
8.1 Grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units
. Each grant of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, the Date of Grant, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine (including the effect, if any, of a Change of Control, death, Disability or Retirement).
8.2 Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
 
. Except as provided in the Plan or an Award Agreement, the Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted herein may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Award Agreement (and in the case of Restricted Stock Units until the date of delivery of Shares or other payment), or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement or otherwise determined at any time by the Committee. All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant, except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement or at any time by the Committee.
8.3 Transferability
. The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals, service-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals, service-based restrictions, and/or restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
8.4 Other Restrictions
The number of Shares subject to grants of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units which provide for service-based vesting more rapid than annual pro rata vesting over a three (3) year period and which, as of any date, have vested or are then currently outstanding shall never exceed a maximum of five percent (5%) of the maximum aggregate number of Shares authorized for issuance in Section 4.1(a). Any Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units providing for vesting upon the attainment of performance goals shall also provide for a Performance Period of at least twelve (12) months.
To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee, if such certificates are issued at the time of grant, the Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall become freely transferable by the Participant after all conditions and restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding obligations), and Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in cash, Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares as the Committee, in its sole discretion shall determine.
. In addition to any legends placed on certificates pursuant to Section 8.4, if certificates are issued at the time of grant, each such certificate representing Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan may bear a legend such as the following or as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion:
8.5 Certificate Legend
The sale or transfer of shares of common stock represented by this certificate, whether voluntary, involuntary, or by operation of law, is subject to certain restrictions as set forth in the Capital One Financial Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, and in the associated Award Agreement. A copy of the Plan and such Award Agreement may be obtained from Capital One Financial Corporation.
. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participant's Award Agreement, to the extent permitted or required by law, as determined by the Committee, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be granted the right to exercise full voting rights, and to receive all dividends and other distributions paid, with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction. A Participant shall have no such voting or dividend rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder.
8.6 Voting and Dividend Rights
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services as a Director or Third Party Service Provider to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
8.7 Termination of Employment or Service
. The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement that the Award of Restricted Stock is conditioned upon the Participant making or refraining from making (or otherwise give the Participant the choice of making) an election with respect to the Award under Section 83(b) of the Code. If a Participant makes an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code concerning a Restricted Stock Award, the Participant shall be required to file promptly a copy of such election with the Company.
8.8 Section 83(b) Election
Article 9. Performance Units and Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Performance Units and/or Performance Shares to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine.
9.1 Grant of Performance Units and Performance Shares
 
. Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Date of Grant. In addition to any other non-performance terms included in the Award Agreement (including the effect, if any, of a Change of Control, death, Disability or Retirement), the Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the value and/or number of Performance Units or Performance Shares, as the case may be, that will be paid out to the Participant. The Committee may, but is not obligated to, set such performance goals by reference to the Performance Measures set forth in Section 11.1.
9.2 Value of Performance Units and Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms of the Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units or Performance Shares, as the case may be, shall be entitled to receive payout on the value and number of the applicable Performance Units or Performance Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved and any other non-performance terms met.
9.3 Earning of Performance Units and Performance Shares
. Payment of earned Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be as determined by the Committee and as evidenced in the Award Agreement. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units and Performance Shares in the form of cash, in Shares or other Awards (or in a combination thereof) equal to the value of the earned Performance Units or Performance Shares, as the case may be, at the close of the applicable Performance Period, or as soon as practicable after the end of the Performance Period. Any Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. The determination of the Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award.
9.4 Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units and Performance Shares
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Performance Units and/or Performance Shares following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services as a Director or Third Party Service Provider to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Awards of Performance Units or Performance Shares issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
9.5 Termination of Employment or Service
. Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise at any time by the Committee, Performance Units and Performance Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise determined at any time by the Committee, a Participant's rights under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.
9.6 Nontransferability
Article 10. Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee may determine.
10.1 Grant of Cash-Based Awards
. The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of the Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may involve the transfer of actual Shares to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Shares and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.
10.2 Other Stock-Based Awards
. Each Cash-Based Award shall specify a payment amount or payment range as determined by the Committee. Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of Shares or units based on Shares, as determined by the Committee. In addition to any other non-performance terms included in the Award Agreement (including the effect, if any, of a Change of Control, death, Disability or Retirement), the Committee may establish performance goals in its discretion. If the Committee exercises its discretion to establish performance goals, the number and/or value of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards that will be paid out to the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance goals (and any other non-performance terms) are met.
10.3 Value of Cash-Based and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Payment, if any, with respect to a Cash-Based Award or an Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash, Shares or a combination of both, as the Committee determines.
10.4 Payment of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
. The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards or to have such Awards vest or payout, as applicable, following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services as a Director or Third Party Service Provider to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, such provisions may be included in an agreement entered into with each Participant, but need not be uniform among all Awards of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
10.5 Termination of Employment or Service
 
. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, neither Cash-Based Awards nor Other Stock-Based Awards may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided by the Committee, a Participant's rights under the Plan, if exercisable, shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant. With respect to those Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards, if any, that are permitted to be transferred to another person, references in the Plan to exercise or payment of such Awards by or to the Participant shall be deemed to include, as determined by the Committee, the Participant's permitted transferee.
10.6 Nontransferability
Article 11. Performance Measures
Unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder vote and the shareholders approve a change in the general Performance Measures set forth in this Article 11, the performance goals upon which the payment or vesting of an Award to a Covered Employee (other than an Annual Incentive Pool Award awarded or credited pursuant to Article 12) that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be limited to goals set by reference to the following Performance Measures:
11.1 Performance Measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any Performance Measure(s) may be used to measure the performance of the Company, a Subsidiary, and/or an Affiliate as a whole or any business unit of the Company, a Subsidiary, and/or an Affiliate or any combination thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or any of the above Performance Measures as compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or a published or special index that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate, or the Company may select Performance Measure (j) above as compared to various stock market indices. The Committee also has the authority to provide for accelerated vesting of any Award based on the achievement of performance goals pursuant to the Performance Measures specified in this Article 11. The Committee also has the authority to use any other performance measures in connection with Awards under the Plan that are not intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.
The Committee may provide in any such Award that any evaluation of performance may include or exclude any of the following events that occurs during a Performance Period: (a) asset write-downs, (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles or regulations, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results, (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs, (e) Extraordinary Items for the applicable year, (f) mergers, acquisitions or divestitures, and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.
11.2 Evaluation of Performance.
In the event that the requirements of Section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation and/or to amend previously granted Awards in a way that would disqualify them as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and may base vesting on Performance Measures other than those set forth in Section 11.1 and/or make such amendments.
11.3 Committee Discretion.
Article 12. Annual Incentive Pool Awards
The Committee may designate Associates, including but not limited to Covered Employees, who are eligible to receive a monetary payment in any Plan Year based on a percentage of an incentive pool equal to the greater of: (i) three percent (3%) of the Company's Consolidated Operating Earnings for the Plan Year, (ii) twenty percent (20%) of the Company's Operating Cash Flow for the Plan Year, or (iii) five percent (5%) of the Company's Net Income for the Plan Year. At the beginning of the Plan Year, the Committee shall allocate an incentive pool percentage to each participating Associate for each Plan Year. In no event may (1) the incentive pool percentage for any one participating Associate exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total pool, (2) the sum of the incentive pool percentages for all participating
12.1 Establishment of Incentive Pool.
 
Associates exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the total pool or (3) the monetary payment for any one participating Associate exceed $10 million.
As soon as possible after the determination of the incentive pool for a Plan Year, the Committee shall calculate each participating Associate's allocated portion of the incentive pool based upon the percentage established at the beginning of the Plan Year. Each participating Associate's Annual Incentive Pool Award then shall be determined by the Committee based on the participating Associate's allocated portion of the incentive pool subject to adjustment in the sole discretion of the Committee. In no event may the portion of the incentive pool allocated to a Covered Employee be increased in any way, including as a result of the reduction of any other participating Associate's allocated portion. The Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust all such Annual Incentive Pool Awards downward and provide for such other terms as it feels necessary or appropriate (including the effect, if any, of a Change of Control, death, Disability or Retirement).
12.2 Determination of Participating Associates' Portions.
Article 13. Dividend Equivalents.
In the discretion of the Committee, any Participant selected by the Committee may be granted dividend equivalents based on the dividends declared on Shares that are subject to any Award during the period between the date the Award is granted and the date the Award is exercised, vests, pays out or expires. Such dividend equivalents may be awarded or paid in the form of cash, Shares, Restricted Stock, or Restricted Stock Units, or a combination, and shall be determined by such formula and at such time and subject to such accrual, forfeiture, or payout restrictions or limitations as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Dividend equivalents granted with respect to Options or SARs that are intended to be Performance-Based Compensation shall be payable, with respect to pre-exercise periods, regardless of whether such Option or SAR is subsequently exercised.
Article 14. Beneficiary Designation
Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
Article 15. Deferrals
The Committee may permit or require (including without limitation, for purposes of deductibility under Section 162(m) of the Code) a Participant to defer such Participant's receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant by virtue of the exercise of an Option or SAR, the lapse or waiver of restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or the satisfaction of any requirements or performance goals with respect to Performance Shares, Performance Units, Cash-Based Awards, Other Stock-Based Awards and Annual Incentive Pool Awards. If any such deferral is required or permitted, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for such payment or Share delivery deferrals and any notional earnings to be credited on such deferred amounts, provided that in the case of any Award intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation such earnings shall be in compliance with Code Section 162(m).
Article 16. Rights of Participants
. Nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, to terminate any Participant's employment or service as a Director or Third Party Service Provider at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue his or her employment or service as a Director or Third Party Service Provider for any specified period of time.
16.1 Employment; Services
Neither an Award nor any rights arising under the Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries and, accordingly, subject to Articles 3 and 17, the Plan and any Award hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries.
. No individual shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under the Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
16.2 Participation
. Except as otherwise provided herein, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares.
16.3 Rights as a Shareholder
Article 17. Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
. Subject to Section 17.3, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or in part; provided, however, that, without the prior approval of the Company's shareholders, the Committee shall not permit or effect a repricing (within the meaning of US generally accepted accounting practices or any applicable stock exchange rule) of
17.1 Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
 
Awards issued under the Plan; and, provided, further no amendment of the Plan or an Award shall be made without shareholder approval if shareholder approval is required by law, regulation, or stock exchange rule.
. The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the performance criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 4.4 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding upon Participants, the Company, and all other interested persons.
17.2 Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
17.3 Awards Previously Granted.
 
 
Article 18. Withholding
. The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, the minimum statutory amount to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes or similar charges, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of or in connection with the Plan or any Award.
18.1 Tax Withholding
. With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, or upon the achievement of performance goals related to Performance Shares, or any other taxable event arising as a result of or in connection with an Award granted hereunder, Participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, or the Committee may require the Participant, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax that could be imposed on the transaction. Any and all such Participant elections to withhold shall be irrevocable, made in writing, and signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. Any and all such Committee requirements to withhold shall either be set forth in the Award Agreement or otherwise communicated to the Participant by notice subsequent to the time of grant and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
18.2 Share Withholding
Article 19. Successors
All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
 
Article 20. General Provisions
20.1 Forfeiture Events.
 
 
 
. The certificates or book entry for Shares may include any legend or coding, as applicable, which the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such Shares.
20.2 Legend
. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
20.3 Gender and Number
. In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
20.4 Severability
. The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
20.5 Requirements of Law
. The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under the Plan prior to:
20.6 Delivery of Title
 
 
. The inability of the Company (after reasonable efforts) to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and/or sale of any Awards or Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue and/or sell such Awards or Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
20.7 Inability to Obtain Authority
. The Committee may require any person receiving Shares pursuant to an Award under the Plan to represent and warrant in writing that the person is acquiring the Shares for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares.
20.8 Investment Representations
. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries operate or have Associates, Directors or Third Party Service Providers, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
20.9 Participants Based Outside of the United States
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted, that would violate applicable law.
. To the extent that the Plan provides for issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange.
20.10 Uncertificated Shares
. Except as provided in Section 5.3 herein: (a) Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company, its Subsidiaries, and/or Affiliates may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan; (b) nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other person; (c) to the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company, its Subsidiaries, and/or Affiliates under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be; and (d) all payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan. The Plan is not subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
20.11 Unfunded Plan
. No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Awards, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
20.12 No Fractional Shares
. Neither Awards made under the Plan nor Shares or cash paid pursuant to such Awards will be included as "compensation" for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under the Company's or any Subsidiary's or Affiliate's retirement plans (both qualified and non-qualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a participant's benefit or except as the Committee may otherwise determine in its discretion.
20.13 Retirement and Welfare Plans
. Neither the adoption of the Plan nor the grant of any Award shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or Committee to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable for any Participant.
20.16 Nonexclusivity of the Plan
Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company's or a Subsidiary's or an Affiliate's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or, (b) limit the right or power of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
20.17 No Constraint on Corporate Action.
. The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, recipients of an Award under the Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Virginia to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any related Award Agreement.
20.18 Governing Law
Unless otherwise specifically determined by the Committee, other provisions of the Plan notwithstanding, the terms of any Award, including any authority of the Board or Committee and rights of a Participant with respect to the Award, shall be limited to those terms permitted under Section 409A of the Code and any regulations promulgated thereunder, including any successor provisions and regulations, and including any applicable guidance or pronouncement of the Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (collectively, ""), and any terms not permitted under Code Section 409A shall be automatically modified and limited to the extent necessary to conform with Code Section 409A; , for purposes of the foregoing, references to a term or event (including any authority or right of the Board or Committee or a Participant) being "permitted" under Code Section 409A mean that the term or event will not cause the Award to be treated as subject to Code Section 409A.
20.19 Code Section 409A.
Code Section 409A
provided
that
 

Exhibit 14.1
I. Policy Statement
Capital One Financial Corporation and its affiliated businesses (collectively, "Capital One") are committed to maintaining a reputation for honesty, fair dealing and integrity. This can only be achieved if all Associates (defined below) conduct both their business and personal affairs with the utmost integrity and ethical commitment. Capital One believes these are the hallmarks of a strong financial services corporation.
The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code of Conduct") cannot address every conceivable ethical issue that may be encountered by Associates. The fact that certain ethical issues are not specifically addressed in the Code of Conduct does not relieve the obligations of all Associates to maintain the highest ethical standards under any and all circumstances. Associates should exercise good judgment and avoid engaging in any activities that might even give the appearance of impropriety. Associates with questions or concerns relating to ethical conduct should contact their supervisor, the HR Help Center (804-284-6600 US/0115-843-6100 UK) or the EthicsLine (866-785-9735 US/0-808-234-7482 UK) to obtain additional information.
Except as otherwise set forth herein, this Code of Conduct shall apply to Capital One's Directors (defined as Directors of the Board of Directors of Capital One Financial Corporation), Executive Officers (defined as officers of the company subject to Section 16 reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) and non-Bank employees (collectively "Associates"). Capital One shall implement certain provisions of this Code of Conduct through internal policies and procedures that currently are in place or will be adopted by the company.
II. Associate Responsibilities
The Code of Conduct is intended to provide guidance to Associates in a variety of situations. The Code of Conduct represents an effort not only to meet, but also exceed, the requirements of current law and industry practice. Accordingly, it is not intended to relieve any Associate of obligations or restrictions imposed by law and may in some cases require more than that imposed by law. Failure to comply with the law could result in substantial fines, imprisonment or both, and may result in discipline up to and including termination of employment. Associates must notify the Capital One Associate Relations Center (US) or HR Help Desk (UK) of convictions (or participation in a pretrial diversion or similar program) involving dishonesty, breach of trust, money laundering, felony convictions, convictions of violence and/or convictions of sexual misconduct involving a child, as detailed in Capital One's Policy for Associate Relations and Employment Practice (US) and the Standards of Associate Conduct (UK). Capital One reserves the right to perform criminal background screening on all associates as a part of its ongoing efforts to ensure a safe and healthy work environment.
Associates are also expected to abide by Capital One's Information Security and Business Continuity Management Policy, Security Policy, Bank Bribery Act Policy, and various Human Resources policies and procedures, as well as any policies, rules and standards required by an Associate's business line or role.
Compliance with the Code of Conduct is a condition of employment. After the effective date of the Code of Conduct, all current Associates and new hires will be asked to review the Code of Conduct and will be required to sign a statement acknowledging receipt of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics ("Acknowledgment Statement"). All Associates will be required to review and acknowledge receipt of the Code of Conduct on an annual basis. It is the responsibility of each Associate to read and comply with all provisions of the Code of Conduct. Ignorance of the Code of Conduct will not be an acceptable excuse for violating any of its provisions.
III. Conflict of Interest
Associates are required to avoid conflicts of interest with regard to Capital One's interests. A "conflict of interest" occurs when an individual's private interest interferes in any way with the interests of Capital One as a whole. A conflict situation can arise when an Associate takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult to perform his or her company work objectively and effectively. Outside employment opportunities may also pose a conflict of interest. Conflicts of interest also arise when an Associate, or a member of his or her family, receives improper personal benefits as a result of his or her position in Capital One. Loans to, or guarantees of obligations of, such persons may result in a conflict of interest and such loans may be made only in accordance with applicable law and Capital One policies.
IV. Corporate Opportunities
Associates are prohibited from (i) taking for themselves personally opportunities that are discovered through the use of corporate property, information or position; (ii) using corporate property, information, or position for personal gain; and (iii) competing with Capital One. Associates owe a duty to Capital One to advance its legitimate interests when the opportunity to do so arises.
V. Confidentiality
Associates must maintain the confidentiality of information entrusted to them by Capital One or its customers, except when disclosure is authorized or legally mandated. Confidential information includes but is not limited to all non-public information that might be of use to competitors, or could be harmful to the company, if disclosed.
 
VI. Fair dealing
Each Associate must endeavor to deal fairly with Capital One's investors, customers, suppliers, competitors and employees. Associates are expected to maintain the privacy of any information that is available to them based on their employment at Capital One. No Associate should take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, or abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts, or any other unfair-dealing practice.
VII. Protection and Proper Use of Company Assets
All Associates must protect the company's assets and ensure their efficient use. Theft, carelessness and waste have a direct impact on Capital One's profitability. Associates should use Capital One assets primarily for business purposes, and should not use such assets in a manner that conflicts with or is detrimental to Capital One. Associates may use Capital One assets for personal reasons provided that Capital One policies and procedures are not violated in so doing, and that such use does not in any way interfere or jeopardize use of such assets, including the employee's time, for business purposes.
VIII. Accounting Complaints
All complaints or concerns by Associates regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters of Capital One should be submitted to the Audit Committee via the EthicsLine. Such submissions may be made anonymously and shall be treated confidentially  with information provided only on a "need-to-know" basis.
IX. Company Documents and Auditor Influence
Company documents must accurately reflect all transactions, payments and financial statements of Capital One.
Approving and Recording Transactions:
Associates shall not extend or arrange to extend credit for fraudulent purposes, or make any false or artificial entries in any books or records of Capital One, or ask another Associate to do so. Associates may not make or approve any transaction for any purpose other than the purpose stated in the documents supporting the transaction.
Establishing Funds and Approving Payment for Capital One:
Associates may not establish any undisclosed or unrecorded funds or assets of Capital One. No payment on behalf of Capital One shall be approved or made with the intention or understanding that any part of such payment is to be used for any purpose other than that described in the document supporting the payment.
No Improper Influence on Auditors:
Associates shall not take any action to fraudulently influence, coerce, manipulate, or mislead any independent public or certified accountant engaged in the performance of an
 
audit of the financial statements of Capital One. No false, misleading or incomplete statements will be made to any internal or external auditor, nor shall any Associate unreasonably withhold information requested by an internal or external auditor with respect to any matter pertaining to or arising from the audit or review of Capital One's accounting records, transactions or financial statements.
X. Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations
The company proactively requires and promotes compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations as well as its internal policies, rules and procedures.
XI. Public Disclosures
Executive Officers and other employees who disclose information relating to the company to the public shall provide full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosures in Securities Exchange Commission filings and other public communications made by the company, as appropriate.
XII. Encouraging the Reporting of Any Illegal or Unethical Behavior
Capital One encourages Associates to talk to supervisors, or other appropriate personnel when in doubt about the best course of action in a particular situation. Additionally, Associates should report suspected violations of laws, rules, regulations, the Code of Conduct or other internal policies, rules or procedures to their supervisors, the EthicsLine, the HR Help Center, or, in certain cases, other appropriate governing bodies or management personnel. Each of these sources will take proper steps to investigate, remediate and penalize, if appropriate, suspected violations. Capital One encourages Associates to report such violations, and Capital One prohibits retaliation for reports made in good faith.
XIII. Violations of Code of Conduct
Capital One is committed to promoting ethical conduct among its Associates and in its relationships with outside parties. Violations of this Code of Conduct and other internal policies, rules and procedures will result in appropriate disciplinary action.
XIV. Changes to Code of Conduct and Reporting of Waivers
Changes to the Code of Conduct shall be approved by the Board of Directors of Capital One Financial Corporation ("Board of Directors"). Waivers to the Code of Conduct may be made by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Board of Directors or their designee. Waivers affecting Directors must be granted by disinterested members of the Board of Directors. Capital One shall publicly disclose any changes or waivers to the Code of Conduct applicable to Directors and Executive Officers through an 8-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 


