FILE:COF/COF-8K-20060926171452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 12, 2006, Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One") and North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. ("North Fork") entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), which sets forth the terms and conditions pursuant to which North Fork will merge into Capital One (the "Merger"), with Capital One as the surviving corporation. In connection with the Merger, North Fork stockholders are entitled to make an election with respect to the type of merger consideration (Capital One common stock, cash or a combination of both) they would prefer to receive in the Merger. Capital One and North Fork mailed to North Fork stockholders an election form on or about July 31, 2006.
Capital One and North Fork have not yet set a definitive election deadline by which North Fork stockholders can elect whether they would prefer to receive cash or Capital One common stock in the merger. The election deadline, which is expected to be approximately five business days prior to transaction closing, will not be earlier than October 25, 2006, and will be announced at least five business days in advance of the deadline. As previously announced, Capital One and North Fork expect the transaction to close in the fourth quarter of 2006, pending the receipt of all remaining regulatory approvals and the expiration of all regulatory waiting periods. The results of the merger consideration election process (including information regarding proration in the event that either form of merger consideration is over-subscribed) will be announced following the completion of the merger.
Additional Information About the Capital One  North Fork Transaction
In connection with the proposed Merger, Capital One filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that included a joint proxy statement of Capital One and North Fork that also constitutes a prospectus of Capital One. Capital One and North Fork mailed the joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective stockholders on or about July 14, 2006. Investors and security holders are urged to read the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger because it contains important information. You may obtain a free copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other related documents filed by Capital One and North Fork with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Capital One's website at www.capitalone.com under the heading "Investors" and then under the heading "SEC & Regulatory Filings" or by accessing North Fork's website at www.northforkbank.com under the tab "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings".
Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Capital One and North Fork caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Capital One and North Fork, including future financial and operating results, the new company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of Capital One or North Fork stockholders to approve the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Capital One's and North Fork's filings with the SEC, which are available at the SEC's web site http://www.sec.gov. Capital One and North Fork disclaim any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


