FILE:COF/COF-8K-20070312170051.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On March 12, 2007, Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Company") entered into a $1.5 billion accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") agreement with Credit Suisse, New York Branch ("CSNY"). The ASR agreement is entered into pursuant to the Company's $3.0 billion stock repurchase program announced on January 25, 2007. Under the ASR agreement, the Company will purchase $1.5 billion dollars of its $.01 par value common stock at a price per share equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on April 2, 2007, the effective date of the agreement.
The ASR agreement also provides that the Company or CSNY may be obligated to make certain additional payments upon final settlement of the ASR agreement. Most significantly, the Company may receive from, or be required to pay, CSNY a purchase price adjustment based on the daily volume weighted average market price of the Company's common stock over a period of approximately four to five months. These additional payments will be satisfied in shares of the Company's common stock.
The arrangement is intended to comply with Rules 10b5-1(c)(1)(i) and 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In the ordinary course of its businesses, CSNY or its affiliates have or may have various relationships with the Company and its subsidiaries involving the provision of a variety of financial services for which they received, or will receive, customary fees and expenses. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may have entered into interest rate and foreign exchange derivative arrangements with CSNY or its affiliates.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 


