FILE:COF/COF-8K-20070828102241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
The following documents were restated to reflect the vote of our stockholders at our annual meeting held on April 26, 2007. They are being filed with this Form 8-K solely because they were inadvertently omitted from our Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2007.
 
The following document is filed with reference to the Registration Statement on Form S-3, No. 333-133943 (the "Registration Statement,") filed by Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One" or the "Company") with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
1. The name of the corporation (which is hereafter referred to as the Corporation) is "Capital One Financial Corporation".
2. The original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on July 21, 1994, under the name of BCD Holdings Corporation.
3. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been duly proposed by resolutions adopted and declared advisable by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), and duly executed and acknowledged by the proper officers of the Corporation in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103, 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (The "GCL") and, upon filing with the Secretary of State in accordance with Section 103 shall henceforth supersede the original Certificate of Incorporation and shall, as it may thereafter be amended in accordance with its terms and applicable law, be the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation.
4. The text of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") is:
The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, 19808. The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is Corporation Service Company.
The purpose of the Corporation shall be to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized and incorporated under the GCL.
(A) . The Corporation shall be authorized to issue 1,050,000,000 shares of capital stock, of which 1,000,000,000 shares shall be shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value ("Common Stock"), and 50,000,000 shares shall be shares of Preferred Stock, $.01 par value ("Preferred Stock").
Authorized Stock
(B) . Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series. The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to create and provide for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in series and, by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter referred to as a "Preferred Stock Designation"), to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designations, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.
Preferred Stock
The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
(i) The designation of the series, which may be by distinguishing number, letter or title.
(ii) The number of shares of the series, which number the Board of Directors may thereafter (except where otherwise provided in the Preferred Stock Designation) increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding).
(iii) Whether dividends, if any, shall be cumulative or noncumulative and the dividend rate of the series.
(iv) Dates at which dividends, if any, shall be payable.
(v) The redemption rights and price or prices, if any, for shares of the series.
(vi) The terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of shares of the series.
(vii) The amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the series in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
(viii) Whether the shares of the series shall be convertible into shares of any other class or series, or any other security, of the Corporation or any other corporation, and, if so, the specification of such other class or series of such other security, the conversion price or prices or rate or rates, any adjustments thereof, the date or dates at which such shares shall be convertible and all other terms and conditions upon which such conversion may be made.
(ix) Restrictions on the issuance of shares of the same series or of any other class or series.
(x) The voting rights, if any, of the holders of shares of the series.
 
(xi) Such other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(C) . The Common Stock shall be subject to the express terms of the Preferred Stock and any series thereof. Each share of Common Stock shall have the right to cast one vote for each share for the election of Directors and on all other matters upon which stockholders are entitled to vote.
The Common Stock
(D). Except as otherwise provided in this Certificate of Incorporation or in a Preferred Stock Designation, or as may be required by applicable law, the Common Stock shall have the exclusive right to vote for the election of directors and for all other purposes and holders of shares of Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meeting of shareholders at which they are not entitled to vote. Each share of Common Stock shall have one vote, and the Common Stock shall vote together as a single class.
Vote
(E) . The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the person in whose name any share of its stock is registered as the owner thereof for all purposes and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice thereof, except as expressly provided by applicable law.
Record Holders
The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to create and issue, whether or not in connection with the issuance and sale of any of its stock or other securities or property, rights entitling the holders thereof to purchase from the Corporation shares of stock or other securities of the Corporation or any other corporation, recognizing that, under certain circumstances, the creation and issuance of such rights could have the effect of discouraging third parties from seeking, or impairing their ability to seek, to acquire a significant portion of the outstanding securities of the Corporation, to engage in any transaction which might result in a change of control of the Corporation or to enter into any agreement, arrangement or understanding with another party to accomplish the foregoing or for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any securities of the Corporation. The times at which and the terms upon which such rights are to be issued will be determined by the Board of Directors and set forth in the contracts or instruments that evidence such rights. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to such rights shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
(A) The initial purchase price per share or other unit of the stock or other securities or property to be purchased upon exercise of such rights.
(B) Provisions relating to the times at which and the circumstances under which such rights may be exercised or sold or otherwise transferred, either together with or separately from, any other stock or other securities of the Corporation.
(C) Provisions which adjust the number or exercise price of such rights or amount or nature of the stock or other securities or property receivable upon exercise of such rights in the event of a combination, split or recapitalization of any stock of the Corporation, a
 
change in ownership of the Corporation's stock or other securities or a reorganization, merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other occurrence relating to the Corporation or any stock of the Corporation, and provisions restricting the ability of the Corporation to enter into any such transaction absent an assumption by the other party or parties thereto of the obligations of the Corporation under such rights.
(D) Provisions which deny the holder of a specified percentage of the outstanding stock or other securities of the Corporation the right to exercise such rights and/or cause the rights held by such holder to become void.
(E) Provisions which permit the Corporation to redeem or exchange such rights, which redemption or exchange may be within the sole discretion of the Board of Directors, if the Board of Directors reserves such right to itself.
(F) The appointment of a rights agent with respect to such rights.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock (as defined below), voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent, with this Article V. For the purposes of this Certificate of Incorporation, "Voting Stock" shall mean the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors.
(A) In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by law, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized and empowered:
(i) to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation, , , that the Bylaws adopted by the Board of Directors under the powers hereby conferred may be altered, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors or by the stockholders having voting power with respect thereto, than in the case of amendments by stockholders, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend or repeal, the Bylaws; and
provided
however
provided
further
(ii) from time to time to determine whether and to what extent, and at what times and places, and under what conditions and regulations, the accounts and books of the Corporation, or any of them, shall be open to inspection of stockholders; and, except as so determined, or as expressly provided in this Certificate of Incorporation or in any Preferred Stock Designation, no stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account, book or document of the Corporation other than such rights as may be conferred by law.
(B) The Corporation may in its Bylaws confer powers upon the Board of Directors in addition to the foregoing and in addition to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon the Board of Directors by law. Notwithstanding anything contained in this
 
Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, subparagraph (i) of paragraph (A) of this Article VI.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specific circumstances or to consent to specific actions taken by the Corporation, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing in lieu of a meeting of such stockholders. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Article VII.
(A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specific circumstances, the number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Bylaws of the Corporation and may be increased or decreased from time to time in such a manner as may be prescribed by the Bylaws.
(B) Unless and except to the extent that the Bylaws of the Corporation shall so require, the election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written ballot.
(C) The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, shall be divided into three classes as nearly equal in number as possible, and designated as Class I, Class II and Class III. Class I directors shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders, Class II directors shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the 1996 annual meeting of stockholders, and Class III directors shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the 1997 annual meeting of stockholders. Members of each class shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified. At each succeeding annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, the successors of the class of directors whose term expires at the meeting shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their election, and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(D) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specific circumstances, any director may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.
(E) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Article VIII.
 
Section 1. .
Vote Required for Certain Business Combinations
(A) . In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or this Certificate of Incorporation and except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 2 of this Article IX:
Higher Vote for Certain Business Combinations
(i) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined) with (a) any Interested Stockholder (as hereinafter defined) or (b) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder) which is, or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate (as hereinafter defined) of an Interested Stockholder; or
(ii) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with any Interested Stockholder, including all Affiliates of the Interested Stockholder, of any assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) of $10,000,000 or more; or
(iii) the issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to any Interested Stockholder, including all Affiliates of the Interested Stockholder, in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof) having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $10,000,000 or more; or
(iv) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Stockholder or any Affiliates of an Interested Stockholder; or
(v) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any of its Subsidiaries or any other transaction (whether or not an Interested Stockholder is a party thereto) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of the outstanding shares of any class of equity or convertible securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary which are directly or indirectly owned by any Interested Stockholder or one or more Affiliates of the Interested Stockholder;
shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, including the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock not owned directly or indirectly by any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder. Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be permitted by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
 
(B) ". The term "Business Combination" as used in this Article IX shall mean any transaction described in any one or more of clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph (A) of this Section 1.
Definition of "Business Combination
Section 2. . The Provision of Section 1 of this Article IX shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is required by law or any other provision of this Restated Certificate of incorporation, if the conditions specified in either of the following paragraphs (A) or (B) are met.
When Higher Vote is Not Required
(A) . The Business Combination shall have been approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors (as hereinafter defined).
Approval by Continuing Directors
(B) . All of the following conditions shall have been met:
Price and Procedure Requirements
(i) The aggregate amount of the cash and the Fair Market Value as hereinafter defined as of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination of consideration other than cash, to be received per share by holders of Common Stock in such Business Combination, shall be at least equal to the highest of the following:
(a) (if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of Common Stock acquired by it (1) within the two-year period immediately prior to the first public announcement of the proposal of such Business Combination (the "Announcement Date"), or (2) in the transaction in which it became an interested Stockholder, whichever is higher.
(b) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the Announcement Date or on the date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder (the "Determination Date"), whichever is higher, and
(c) (if applicable) the price per share equal to the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock determined pursuant to paragraph (B) (i) (b) above, multiplied by the ratio of (1) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of Common Stock acquired by it within the two-year period immediately prior to the Announcement Date to (2) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the first day in such two-year period upon which the Interested Stockholder acquired any shares of Common Stock.
(ii) The aggregate amount of the cash and the Fair Market Value as of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination of consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of shares of any other class, other
 
than Common Stock or Excluded Preferred Stock (as hereinafter defined), of outstanding Voting Stock shall be at least equal to the highest of the following (it being intended that the requirements of this paragraph (B) (ii) shall be required to be met with respect to every such class of outstanding Voting Stock whether or not the Interested Stockholder has previously acquired any shares of a particular class of Voting Stock):
(a)(if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of such class of Voting Stock acquired by it (1) within the two-year period immediately prior to the Announcement Date, or (2) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher.
(b)(if applicable) the highest preferential amount per share to which the holders of shares of such class of Voting Stock are entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
(c) the Fair Market per share of such class of Voting Stock on the Announcement Date or on the Determination Date, whichever is higher, and
(d)(if applicable) the price per share equal to the Fair Market Value per share of such class of Voting Stock determined pursuant to paragraph (B) (ii) (c) above multiplied by the ratio of (1) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of such class of Voting Stock acquired by it within the two-year period immediately prior to the Announcement Date to (2) the Fair Market Value per share of such class of Voting Stock on the first date in such two-year period upon which the Interested Stockholder acquired any shares of such class of Voting Stock.
(iii) The consideration to be received by holders of a particular class of outstanding Voting Stock (including Common Stock and other than Excluded Preferred Stock) shall be in cash or in the same form as the Interested Stockholder has previously paid for shares of such class of Voting Stock. If the Interested Stockholder has paid for shares of any class of Voting Stock with varying forms of consideration, the form of consideration of such class of Voting Stock shall either be cash or the form used to acquire the largest number of shares of such class of Voting Stock previously acquired by it.
(iv) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder and prior to the consummation of such Business Combination; (a) there shall have been no failure to declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividends (whether or not cumulative) on any outstanding preferred
 
stock, except as approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors; (b) there shall have been no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the Common Stock), except as approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors; (c) there shall have been an increase in the annual rate of dividends is necessary fully to reflect any recapitalization (including any reverse stock split), reorganization or any similar reorganization which has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of the Common Stock, unless the failure so to increase such annual rate is approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors; and (d) such Interested Stockholder shall not have become the Beneficial Owner of any additional Voting Stock except as part of the transaction which results in such Interested Stockholder becoming an Interested Stockholder.
(v) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder, such Interested Stockholder shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a shareholder), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the Corporation, whether in anticipation or in connection with such Business Combination or otherwise.
(vi) A proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules or regulations) shall be mailed to stockholders of the Corporation at least thirty (30) days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (whether or not such proxy or information statement is required to be mailed pursuant to such Act or subsequent provisions).
Section 3. . For purposes of this Article IX.
Certain Definitions
(A) "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation or other entity.
(B) "Interested Stockholder" shall mean any Person (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary) who or which:
(i) itself, or along with its Affiliates, is the Beneficial Owner directly or indirectly, of more than 5% of the then outstanding Voting Stock; or
(ii) is an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question was itself, or along with its Affiliates, the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 5% or more of the then outstanding Voting Stock; or
(iii) is an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any Voting Stock which was at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question beneficially owned by any Interested Stockholder, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction or series of transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933.
 
, , that Signet Banking Corporation and its Affiliates shall not be deemed an Interested Stockholder as long as they continue to control more than a majority of the outstanding Voting Stock.
provided
however
(C) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect July 1, 1994. In addition, a Person shall be the "Beneficial Owner" of any Voting Stock which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (a) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (b) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (but neither such person nor any such Affiliate or Associate shall be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any shares of Voting Stock solely by reason of a revocable proxy granted for a particular meeting of stockholders, pursuant to a public solicitation of proxies for such meeting, and with respect to which shares neither such Person nor any such Affiliate or Associate is otherwise deemed the Beneficial Owner).
(D) For the purpose of determining whether a Person is an Interested Stockholder pursuant to paragraph (B) of this section 3, the number of shares of Voting Stock deemed to be outstanding shall include shares deemed owned through application of paragraph (C) of this Section 3 but shall not include any other shares of Voting Stock which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options or otherwise.
(E) "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on July 1, 1994.
(F) "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation of which a majority of any share of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, , , that for the purposes of the definition of Interested Stockholder set forth in paragraph (B) of this Section 3, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of each share of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation.
provided
however
(G) "Continuing Director" shall mean any member of the Board of Directors who is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and was a member of the Board of Directors prior to the time that the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder, and any director who is thereafter chosen to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors or who is elected and who, in either event, is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and in connection with his or her initial assumption of office is recommended for appointment or election by a majority of Continuing Directors then on the Board.
(H) "Fair Market Value" shall mean (i) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such
 
stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange listed stocks, or, if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange or, if such stock is not listed on such exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on which such is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 60-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use in its stead, or if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 4 of this Article IX, and (ii) in the case of property on the date in question as determined by the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 4 of this Article IX.
(I) In the event of any Business Combination in which the Corporation survives, the phrase "other considerations to be received" as used in paragraphs (B) (i) and (ii) of Section 2 of this Article IX shall include the shares of Common Stock and/or the shares of any other class of outstanding Voting Stock retained by the holders of such shares.
(J) "Excluded Preferred Stock" means any series of Preferred Stock with respect to which a majority of the Continuing Directors have approved a Preferred Stock Designation creating such series that expressly provides that the provisions of this Article IX shall not apply.
Section 4. The Continuing Directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this Article IX on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, all facts necessary to determine compliance with this Article IX, including, without limitation, (i) whether a Person is an Interested Stockholder, (ii) the number of shares of Voting Stock beneficially owned by any Person, (iii) whether a Person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (iv) whether the applicable conditions set forth in paragraph (B) of Section 2 of this Article IX have been met with respect to any Business Combination, (v) the Fair Market Value of stock or other property in accordance with paragraph (H) of Section 3 of this Article IX and (vi) whether the assets which are the subject of any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of Securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination has, an aggregate Fair Market Value of $10,000,000 or more.
Section 5. .Nothing contained in this Article IX shall be construed to relieve any Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
No Effect on Fiduciary Obligations of Interested Stockholders
Section 6. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be permitted by law, this Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation), but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class of Voting Stock required by law or this Certificate of Incorporation, the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of the voting power of the shares of the then outstanding Voting Stock voting together as a single class, including the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock not owned directly or indirectly by any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with, this Article IX of this Certificate of Incorporation.
Amendment, Repeal, etc.
 
A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the GCL, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.
Each person who is or was or had agreed to become a director or officer of the Corporation, or each such person who is or was serving or who had agreed to serve at the request of the Board of Directors or an officer of the Corporation as an employee or agent of the Corporation or as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including the heirs, executor, administrators or estate of such person), shall be indemnified by the Corporation, in accordance with the Bylaws of the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted from time to time by the GCL as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect. Without limiting the generality or the effect of the foregoing, the Corporation may enter into one or more agreements with any person which provide for indemnification greater or different than that provided in this Article XI. Any amendment or repeal of this Article XI shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
Except as may be expressly provided in this Certificate of Incorporation, the Corporation reserves the right at any time from time to time to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, or a Preferred Stock Designation, and any other provisions authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force may be added or inserted, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed herein or by law; and all rights, preferences and privileges of whatsoever nature conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons whomsoever by and pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereafter amended are granted subject to the right reserved in this Article XII; , , that any amendment or repeal of Article X or Article XI of this Certificate of Incorporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal; and further that no Preferred Stock Designation shall be amended after the issuance of any shares of the series of Preferred stock created thereby, except in accordance with the terms of such Preferred Stock Designation and the requirements of applicable law.
provided
however
provided
 
Capital One Financial Corporation has caused this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be signed by its Assistant Secretary and has caused its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed this 14
th
day of May, 2007.
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
Section 1.1. Delaware Office. The principal office of Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is Corporation Service Company, 1013 Centre Road, Wilmington, Delaware.
Section 1.2. Other Offices. The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Section 1.3. Books and Records. The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's headquarters in Falls Church, Virginia or at such other locations outside the State of Delaware as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Section 2.1. Annual Meeting. The annual meetings of stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, and at such time and date as the Board of Directors, by resolution, shall determine and as set forth in the notice of the meeting. If the Board of Directors fails so to determine the time, date and place of meeting, the annual meeting of stockholders shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation on the first Tuesday in May. If the date of the annual meeting shall fall upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day. At each annual meeting, the stockholders entitled to vote shall elect a Board of Directors and they may transact such other corporate business as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting.
Section 2.2. Special Meeting. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation (the "Preferred Stock") to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
Section 2.3. Place of Meeting. The Board of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders. If no designation is made by the Board of Directors, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
Section 2.4. Notice of Meeting. Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be prepared and delivered by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, either personally, or by mail, or otherwise sent electronically as permitted by law, including via electronic mail or the Internet to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. If sent electronically, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when sent in compliance with law and upon the stockholders' instructions given to the Corporation or its representative. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
Section 2.5. Quorum and Adjournment. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business. The chairman of the meeting or a majority of the shares of Voting Stock so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or, in the case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, the chairman or a majority of the shares of such class or series so represented may adjourn the meeting with respect to such specified business). No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Section 2.6. Proxies. At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing by the stockholder or as may be permitted by law, or by his duly authorized attorney-in-fact. Such proxy must be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or his representative at or before the time of the meeting.
Section 2.7. Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.8. Procedure for Election of Directors. Election of directors at all meetings of stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by written ballot, and, except as otherwise set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, a majority of the votes cast in elections of directors in which the number of nominees is equal to the number of positions available, and by a plurality of votes cast in elections of directors in which the number of directors is greater than the number of positions available, at such meetings shall elect. The Board of Directors shall establish such procedures as it deems appropriate and advisable for the submission and consideration of resignations from the Board by incumbent directors who do not receive a majority of the votes cast for such director at any meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected and the number of nominees is equal to the number of positions available. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, all matters other than the election of directors submitted to the stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by a majority of the votes cast with respect thereto.
Section 2.9. Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls.
(A) The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(B) The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Section 2.10. No Stockholder Action by Written Consent. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specific circumstances, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be affected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
 
Section 3.1. General Powers. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 3.2. Number, Tenure and Qualifications. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board but shall consist of not more than seventeen nor less than three directors. The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, shall be divided, with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders, the term of office of the second class to expire at the 1996 annual meeting of stockholders and the term of office of the third class to expire at the 1997 annual meeting of stockholders. Each director shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders, commencing with the 1996 annual meeting, (i) directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election, with each director to hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, and (ii) if authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors, directors may be elected to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, regardless of how such vacancy shall have been created. In order to be qualified to serve as a director, a person must (a) not have attained the age of seventy (70) years and (b) either (i) be an officer or employee of the Corporation and not (A) have voluntarily resigned from the position or office he held at the time of his election as a director, (B) have retired or been retired pursuant to the requirements of a pension, profit sharing, or similar plan or (C) have, at the time of his election as a director, held a position or office in the Corporation which has been changed, other than by an upward or expanded promotion or (ii) in the case of any person who is not an officer or employee of the Corporation, not (A) have retired from or severed his connection with the organization with which he was affiliated at the time of his election as a director or (B) have held a position or office with an organization with which he was affiliated at the time of his election as a director which has been changed, other than by an upward or expanded promotion and (C) not have a material conflict of interest with the Corporation (i) as defined by applicable laws and regulations and (ii) the existence and materiality of which as may be determined by a majority of the remaining directors. Whenever any director shall cease to be qualified to serve as a director his term shall expire, but such director shall continue to serve until his successor is elected and qualified; provided, however, that no director's term shall so expire if the Board of Directors shall have waived such qualification.
Section 3.3. Regular Meetings. A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, each
 
annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
Section 3.4. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
Section 3.5. Notice. Notice of any special meeting shall be given to each director at his business or residence in writing or by telegram or by telephone communication. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five days before such meeting. If by telegram, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company at least twenty-four hours before such meeting. If by facsimile transmission, such notice shall be transmitted at least twenty-four hours before such meeting. If by telephone, the notice shall be given at least twelve hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of , any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws as provided under Section 7.1 of Article VII hereof. A meeting
,
may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in writing, either before or after such meeting.
Section 3.6. Quorum. A whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Section 3.7. Vacancies. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Section 3.8. Committees. The Board of Directors may from time to time, by resolution passed by a majority of the Whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more Directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one
 
or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, except as otherwise provided by law. Unless the resolution of the Board of Directors expressly so provides, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock. Any such committee may adopt rules governing the method of calling and time and place of holding its meetings. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, a majority of any such committee may adopt rules governing the method of calling and time and place of holding its meetings. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, a majority of any such committee (or the member thereof, if only one) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the vote of a majority of the members of such committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee. Each such committee shall keep a record of its acts and proceedings and shall report thereon to the Board of Directors whenever requested so to do. Any or all members of any such committee may be removed, with or without cause, by resolution of the Board of Directors, passed by a majority of the Whole Board.
Section 3.9. Removal. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.
Section 4.1. Elected Officers. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from the directors. All officers chosen by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this Article IV. Such officers shall also have powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof.
Section 4.2. Election and Term of Office. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Subject to Section 4.7 of these Bylaws, each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign.
Section 4.3. Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all
 
duties incidental to his office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him by the Board of Directors. Except where by law the signature of the President is required, the Chairman of the Board shall possess the same power as the President to sign all certificates, contracts, and other instruments of the Corporation which may be authorized by the Board of Directors. He shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the stockholders, and shall perform all such other duties as are properly required of him by the Board of Directors. He shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect.
Section 4.4. President. The President shall act in a general executive capacity and shall assist the Chairman of the Board in the administration and operation of the Corporation's business and general supervision of its policies and affairs. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may sign, alone or with the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, or any other proper officer of the Corporation authorized by the board of Directors, certificates, contracts, and other instruments of the Corporation as authorized by the Board of Directors.
Section 4.5. Secretary. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of stockholders and Directors and all other notices required by law or by these Bylaws, and in case of his absence or refusal or neglect so to do, any such notice May be given by any person thereunto directed by the Chairman of the Board or the President, or by the Board of Directors, upon whose request the meeting is called as provided in these Bylaws. The Secretary shall record all the proceedings of the meetings of the Board of Directors, any committees thereof and the stockholders of the Corporation in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President. The Secretary shall have the custody of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the same to all instruments requiring it, when authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President, and attest to the same.
Section 4.6. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate account of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements. The Treasurer shall render to the Chairman of the Board, the President and the Board of Directors, whenever requested, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
Section 4.7. Removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed by a majority of the members of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his successor, his death, his resignation or his removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or an employee plan.
 
Section 4.8. Vacancies. A newly created office and a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
Section 5.1. Stock Certificates and Transfers.
(A) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe. The shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably required.
(B) The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 6.1. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 6.2. Dividends. The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by the law and its Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 6.3. Seal. The corporate seal of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced otherwise imprinted upon the subject document or paper.
Section 6.4. Waiver of Notice. Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to
 
such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or of the Board of Directors need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
Section 6.5. Audits. The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Board of Directors, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be made annually.
Section 6.6. Resignations. Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by serving written notice of such resignation on the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business of the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary or at such later date as is stated therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
Section 6.7. Indemnification and Insurance.
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of any other corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; that except as provided in paragraph (B) of Section 6.7 of this Bylaw with respect to proceedings seeking to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
provided, however,
(B) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within thirty days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of
 
prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required under undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall he on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(C) Following any "change in control" of the Corporation of the type required to be reported under Item 1 of Form 8-K promulgated under the Exchange Act, any determination as to entitlement to indemnification shall be made by independent legal counsel selected by the claimant which independent legal counsel shall be retained by the Board of Directors on behalf of the Corporation.
(D) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
(E) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(F) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors, officers and employees of the Corporation.
(G) The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; , , that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, with limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be
provided
however
 
made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
(H) Any amendment or repeal of this Article VI shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
Section 7.1. Amendments. These Bylaws may be amended, added to, rescinded or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given no less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting; that, in the case of amendments by stockholders, notwithstanding any other provisions of these Bylaws or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no note, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class or series of the stock required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend or repeal any provision of these Bylaws.
provided, however,
 

Exhibit 25.1
Registration No. 333-133943
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes.
 
If the obligor is an affiliate of the trustee, describe each such affiliation.
None.
 
Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the Commission, are incorporated herein by reference as an exhibit hereto, pursuant to Rule 7a-29 under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (the "Act") and 17 C.F.R. 229.10(d).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Act, the trustee, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, has duly caused this statement of eligibility to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, all in The City of Chicago, and State of Illinois, on the 24th day of August, 2007.
 
 
EXHIBIT 7
At the close of business June 30, 2007, published in accordance with Federal regulatory authority instructions.
 
 
I, Karen Bayz, Vice President of the above-named bank do hereby declare that the Reports of Condition and Income (including the supporting schedules) for this report date have been prepared in conformance with the instructions issued by the appropriate Federal regulatory authority and are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
 
We, the undersigned directors (trustees), attest to the correctness of the Report of Condition (including the supporting schedules) for this report date and declare that it has been examined by us and to the best of our knowledge and belief has been prepared in conformance with the instructions issued by the appropriate Federal regulatory authority and is true and correct.
 
 


