FILE:COF/COF-8K-20070126170622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On December 1, 2006, Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One" or the "Company") filed a Form 8-K reporting the closing of its merger with North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. ("North Fork") on December 1, 2006. In that filing the
Company indicated that it would amend the Form 8-K at a later date to include the financial information required by Item 9.01. This amendment to the December 1, 2006 Form 8-K is being filed to provide such financial information, which is attached as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The required consolidated financial statements of North Fork as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2006 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
The required pro forma financial information as of September 30, 2006 and for the nine and twelve months ended September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively, are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
The Board of Directors
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement (No. 333-133665) on Form S-4 of Capital One Financial Corporation of our report dated March 14, 2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, cash flows, and comprehensive income for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, which report appears in the Form 8-K/A of Capital One Financial Corporation dated January 26, 2007.
/s/ KPMG LLP
New York, New York
January 26, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, cash flows, and comprehensive income for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 1  Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. is a regional bank holding company organized under the laws of the State of Delaware and registered as a "bank holding company" under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. North Fork Bank, our principal bank subsidiary, operates from 353 retail bank branches in the New York Metropolitan area. We also operate a nationwide mortgage business (GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc.). GreenPoint Mortgage is in the business of originating, selling and servicing a wide variety of mortgages secured by 1-4 family residences and small commercial properties. Through our other non-bank subsidiaries, we offer financial products and services to our customers including asset management, securities brokerage, and the sale of alternative investment products. We operate a second subsidiary bank, Superior Savings of New England, N.A., which focuses on telephonic and media-based generation of deposits.
In May 2004, we acquired The Trust Company of New Jersey ("TCNJ"). TCNJ was the fourth largest commercial bank headquartered in New Jersey and operated in the northern and central New Jersey market area. TCNJ represented our first significant expansion into a state other than New York. At the date of merger, TCNJ had $4.1 billion in total assets, $1.4 billion in securities, $2.1 billion in net loans, $3.2 billion in deposits and $.7 billion in borrowings.
In October 2004, we acquired GreenPoint Financial Corp. ("GreenPoint"). GreenPoint operated two primary businesses, a New York based retail bank ("GreenPoint Bank") and a separate mortgage banking business ("GreenPoint Mortgage" or "GPM") with nationwide operations. GreenPoint Bank maintained 95 retail bank branches in the New York Metropolitan area. At the date of merger, GreenPoint had $27 billion in assets, $6.8 billion in securities, $5.1 billion in loans held-for-sale, $12.8 billion in loans held-for-investment, $12.8 billion in deposits, and $11.4 billion in borrowings.
Basis of Presentation
The accounting and financial reporting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires that management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates are subject to change in the future as additional information becomes available or previously existing circumstances are modified. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities. All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
Significant Accounting Policies
Securities
Securities that we have the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and carried at amortized cost. Securities that may be sold in response to, or in anticipation of, changes in interest rates and resulting prepayment risk, or other factors, and marketable equity securities, are classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on these securities are reported, net of applicable taxes, as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity. Equity securities that do not have a readily determinable fair value are reported at cost. Debt and equity securities that are purchased and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on trading securities are reported as a component of other non-interest income. Management determines the appropriate classification of securities at the time of purchase, and at each reporting date, management reassesses the appropriateness of the classification.
Interest income on securities, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, is recognized using the level yield method over the lives of the individual securities. Realized gains and losses on sales of securities are computed using the specific identification method. The cost basis of individual held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities are reduced through write-downs to reflect other-than-temporary impairments in value. These write-downs are reported as a component of securities gains, net.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument is determined by whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and based on the type of hedging relationship. Transactions hedging changes in the fair value of a recognized asset, liability, or firm commitment are classified as fair value hedges. Derivative instruments hedging exposure to variable cash flows of recognized assets, liabilities or forecasted transactions are classified as cash flow hedges.
Fair value hedges result in the immediate recognition through earnings of gains or losses on the derivative instrument, as well as corresponding losses or gains on the hedged financial instrument to the extent they are attributable to the hedged risk. The gain or loss on the effective portion of a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is reported as a component of other comprehensive income, and reclassified to earnings in the same period that the hedged transaction affects earnings. The gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the derivative instrument, if any, is recognized in earnings for both fair value and cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments are recorded as changes in both the fair value of the swap and the hedged financial instrument. Derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment are recorded at fair value and classified as trading assets or liabilities with the resultant changes in fair value recognized in earnings during the period of change.
In the event of early termination of a derivative contract, previously designated as part of a cash flow hedging relationship, any resulting gain or loss is deferred as an adjustment to the carrying value of the assets or liabilities, against which the hedge had been designated with a corresponding offset to other comprehensive income, and reclassified to earnings over the shorter of the remaining life of the designated assets or liabilities, or the derivative contract. However, if the hedged item is no longer on balance sheet (i.e. sold or canceled), the derivative gain or loss is immediately reclassified to earnings.
As part of our mortgage banking business, we enter into commitments to originate or purchase loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is determined prior to funding ("interest rate lock commitment"). Interest rate lock commitments related to loans that we intend to sell in the secondary market are considered free-standing derivatives. These derivatives are required to be recorded at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in current period earnings. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105, "Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments", interest rate lock commitments are initially valued at zero. Changes in fair value subsequent to inception are based on changes in the fair value of loans with similar characteristics and changes in the probability that the loan will fund within the terms of the commitment, which is affected primarily by changes in interest rates and passage of time. In general, the probability that a loan will fund increases if mortgage rates rise and decreases if mortgage rates fall. The initial value inherent in the loan commitment at origination is recognized through gain on sale of loans when the underlying loan is sold.
We are exposed to interest rate risk from the time an interest rate lock commitment is made to a borrower to the time the resulting mortgage loan is sold in the secondary market. To manage this risk, we use derivatives, primarily forward sales contracts on mortgage backed securities and forward delivery commitments, in an amount equal to the portion of interest rate contracts expected to close. The duration of these derivatives is selected to have the changes in their fair value correlate closely with the changes in fair value of the interest rate lock commitments on loans to be sold. These derivatives are also required to be recorded at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in current period earnings.
Loans Held-for-Sale
Loans held-for-sale consist primarily of residential mortgage loans, secured by one-to-four family residential properties located throughout the United States. Loans originated with the intent of selling in the secondary market are classified as held-for-sale. Loans held-for-sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost, net of deferred fees, deferred origination costs and effects of hedge accounting, or fair value. The fair value of loans held-for-sale are determined using current secondary market prices for loans with similar coupons, maturities and credit quality.
The fair value of loans held-for-sale is impacted by changes in market interest rates. The exposure to changes in market interest rates is hedged primarily by selling forward contracts on agency securities. These derivative instruments, designated as fair value hedges, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value being recorded in gain on sale of loans in current earnings. Also changes in the fair value of loans held-for-sale are recorded as an adjustment to the loans' carrying basis through gain on sale of loans in current earnings.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
As part of our mortgage banking operations, commitments to purchase or originate loans are entered into whereby the interest rate on the loans is determined prior to funding ("interest rate lock commitments"). Interest rate lock commitments on loans we intend to sell are recorded as derivative instruments as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133  "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and the fair value of interest rate lock commitments are determined using current secondary market prices for underlying loans with similar coupons, maturity and credit quality, subject to the anticipated loan funding probability, or pull through rate.
Similar to loans held-for-sale, the fair value of interest rate lock commitments is subject to change due to changes in market interest rates. In addition, the value of interest rate lock commitments is affected by changes in the anticipated loan funding probability or pull through rate. These changes in fair value are also hedged primarily by selling forward contracts on agency securities. Both the interest rate lock commitments and the related forward contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value being recorded in current earnings in gain on sale of loans.
Accounting for Sales of Loans Held-for-Sale
Loans originated for sale are primarily sold in the secondary market as whole loans. Whole loan sales are executed with either the servicing rights being retained or released to the buyer. For sales where the loans are sold with the servicing released to the buyer, the gain or loss on the sale is equal to the difference between the proceeds received and the carrying value of the loans sold. If the loans are sold with the servicing rights retained, the gain or loss on the sale is also impacted by the fair value attributed to the servicing rights.
Mortgage Servicing Rights
The right to service mortgage loans for others, or Mortgage Servicing Rights ("MSRs"), is recognized when mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market and the right to service these loans are retained for a fee. The MSRs initial carrying value is determined by allocating the recorded investment in the underlying mortgage loans between the assets sold and the interest retained based on their relative fair values at the date of transfer. Fair value of the MSRs is determined using the present value of the estimated future cash flows of net servicing income. MSRs are carried at the lower of the initial carrying value, adjusted for amortization, or fair value. MSRs are amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. The amortization of MSRs is periodically analyzed and adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds.
To determine fair value, a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income is utilized. We use assumptions in the valuation model that market participants use when estimating future net servicing income, including prepayment speeds, discount rates, default rates, cost to service, escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees.
MSRs are periodically evaluated for impairment based on the difference between the carrying amount and current fair value. To evaluate and measure impairment, the underlying loans are stratified based on certain risk characteristics, including loan type, note rate and investor servicing requirements. If it is determined that temporary impairment exists, a valuation allowance is established by risk stratification through a charge to earnings for any excess of amortized cost over the current fair value. If determined in future periods that all or a portion of the temporary impairment no longer exists for a particular risk stratification, the valuation allowance is reduced by increasing earnings. However, if impairment for a particular risk stratification is deemed other-than-temporary (recovery of a recorded valuation allowance is remote), a direct write-down, permanently reducing the carrying value of the MSRs is recorded. The periodic evaluation of MSRs for other-than-temporary impairment considers both historical and projected trends in interest rates, payoff activity and whether impairment could be recovered through increases in market interest rates.
Representation and Warranty Reserve
The representation and warranty reserve is available to cover probable losses inherent with the sale of loans in the secondary market. In the normal course of business, certain representations and warranties are made to investors at the time of sale, which permit the investor to return the loan to the seller or require the seller to indemnify the investor (make whole) for any losses incurred by the investor while the loan remains outstanding.
The evaluation process for determining the adequacy of the representation and warranty reserve and the periodic provisioning for estimated losses is performed for each product type on a quarterly basis. Factors considered in the evaluation process include historical sales volumes, aggregate repurchase and indemnification activity and actual losses incurred. Additions to the reserve are recorded as a
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
reduction to the gain on sale of loans. Losses incurred on loans we are required to either repurchase or make payments to the investor under the indemnification provisions are charged against the reserve. The representation and warranty reserve is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Loans Held-for-Investment
Loans are stated at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned income and net deferred loan fees and costs. Interest income is recognized using the interest method or a method that approximates a level rate of return over the loan term. Net deferred loan fees and origination costs are recognized in interest income over the loan term as a yield adjustment.
Non-Accrual and Restructured Loans
Loans are generally placed on non-accrual status when payments become 90 days past due, unless they are well secured and in the process of collection. Loans may also be placed on non-accrual status if management has doubt as to the collectibility of interest and principal prior to a loan becoming 90 days past due. Interest and fees previously accrued, but not collected, are generally reversed and charged against interest income at the time a loan is placed on non-accrual status. Interest payments received on non-accrual loans are recorded as reductions of principal if, in management's judgment, principal repayment is doubtful. Loans may be reinstated to an accrual or performing status if future payments of principal and interest are reasonably assured and the loan has a demonstrated period of performance.
Loans are classified as restructured when management grants, for economic or legal reasons related to the borrower's financial condition, concessions to the borrower that we would not otherwise consider. Generally, this occurs when the cash flows of the borrower are insufficient to service the loan under its original terms. Restructured loans are reported as such in the year of restructuring. In subsequent reporting periods, the loan is removed from restructured status if the loan yields a market rate of interest, is performing in accordance with the restructured terms, and such performance is expected to continue.
Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses
The allowance for loan losses is available to cover probable losses inherent in the loans held-for-investment portfolio. Loans held-for-investment, or portions thereof, deemed uncollectible are charged to the allowance for loan losses, while recoveries, if any, of amounts previously charged-off are added to the allowance. Amounts are charged-off after giving consideration to such factors as the customer's financial condition, underlying collateral values and guarantees, and general economic conditions.
The evaluation process for determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and the periodic provisioning for estimated losses is undertaken on a quarterly basis, but may increase in frequency should conditions arise that would require our prompt attention. Conditions giving rise to such action are business combinations or other acquisitions or dispositions of large quantities of loans, dispositions of non-performing and marginally performing loans by bulk sale or any development which may indicate an adverse trend. Recognition is also given to the changing risk profile resulting from business combinations, customer performance, results of ongoing credit-quality monitoring processes and the cyclical nature of economic and business conditions.
The loan portfolio is categorized according to collateral type, loan purpose or borrower type (i.e. commercial, consumer). The categories used include Multi-Family Mortgages, Residential 1-4 Family Mortgages, Commercial Mortgages, Commercial and Industrial, Consumer, and Construction and Land. An important consideration is our concentration of real estate related loans.
The methodology employed for assessing the adequacy of the allowance consists of the following criteria:
 
 
The initial allocation or specific-allowance method commences with loan officers and underwriters grading the quality of their loans on a risk classification scale ranging from 18. Loans identified as below investment grade are referred to our independent Loan Review Department ("LRD") for further analysis and identification of those factors that may ultimately affect the full recovery
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
or collectibility of principal and/or interest. These loans are subject to continuous review and monitoring while they remain in a criticized category. Additionally, LRD is responsible for performing periodic reviews of the loan portfolio independent from the identification process employed by loan officers and underwriters. Loans that fall into criticized categories are further evaluated for impairment in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan." The portion of the allowance allocated to impaired loans is based on the most appropriate of the following measures: discounted cash flows from the loan using the loan's effective interest rate, the fair value of the collateral for collateral dependent loans, or the observable market price of the impaired loan.
The remaining allocation applies a category specific loss experience factor to loans which have not been specifically reviewed for impairment, including smaller balance homogeneous loans that we have identified as residential and consumer, which are not specifically reserved for impairment. These category specific factors give recognition to our historical loss experience, as well as that of acquired businesses, cyclical trends, current economic conditions and our exposure to real estate values. These factors are reviewed on a quarterly basis with senior lenders to ensure that the factors applied to each loan category are reflective of trends or changes in the current business environment which may affect these categories.
Upon completion of both allocation processes, the specific and loss experience factor method allocations are combined, producing the allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan category. Other factors used to evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses include the amount and trend of criticized loans, results of regulatory examinations, peer group comparisons and economic data associated with the relevant markets, specifically the local real estate market. Because many loans depend upon the sufficiency of collateral, any adverse trend in the relevant real estate markets could have a significant adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio. This may lead management to consider that the overall allowance level should be greater than the amount determined by the allocation process described above.
Premises and Equipment
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Equipment, which includes furniture and fixtures, are depreciated over the assets' estimated useful lives using the straight-line method (3 to 10 years). Bank premises and leasehold improvements are amortized, using the straight line method, over the estimated useful life of the related asset or the lease term, whichever is shorter. Maintenance, repairs and minor improvements are charged to non-interest expense in the period incurred.
Impairment
Long-lived assets including goodwill and certain identifiable intangibles are periodically evaluated for impairment in value. Long-lived assets and deferred costs are typically measured whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. No such events have occurred during the periods reported. Certain identifiable intangibles and goodwill are evaluated for impairment at least annually utilizing the "market approach" as prescribed by SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Asset impairment is recorded when required.
Other Real Estate
Other real estate consists of property acquired through foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure. Prior to foreclosure, the recorded amount of the loan is written down, if necessary, to the fair value of the property based on the appraised value adjusted for estimated disposition costs, by a charge to the allowance for loan losses.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are provided for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period the change occurs. Deferred tax assets are reduced, through a valuation allowance, if necessary, by the amount of such benefits that are not expected to be realized based on current available evidence.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Earnings Per Share ("EPS")
Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders' by the weighted average number of common shares, as adjusted for restricted shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders' by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding as, adjusted for restricted shares, and common stock equivalents (i.e. stock options) outstanding during the period and accounted for under the treasury stock method. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding used in the computation of Basic EPS was 467,306,335, 294,490,840 and 226,304,234 for 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding used in the computation of Diluted EPS was 472,790,713, 299,219,291 and 228,774,213 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation plans are accounted for in accordance with the requirements specified in SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), as amended by SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure" ("SFAS 148"). As permitted under these Statements, we have elected to apply the intrinsic value method in accounting for option-based stock compensation plans. Accordingly, compensation expense has not been recognized in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for stock-based compensation plans, other than restricted stock awards. Restricted stock awards are recorded as deferred compensation, a component of stockholders' equity, at fair value as of the date of grant and amortized to compensation expense over the awards' specified vesting periods. Since the intrinsic value method is used, we are required to disclose the pro-forma impact on net income and earnings per share that the fair value-based method would have had, if it was applied rather than the intrinsic value method.
See Note 16  "Common Stock Plans", for additional information.
Accordingly, the following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share as if the fair value-based method had been applied to all outstanding awards in each period.
 
Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets
Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles) reflected on the consolidated balance sheets arose from previous acquisitions. At the date of acquisition, we recorded the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value. The excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded on the balance sheet as goodwill. The cost includes the consideration paid and all direct costs associated with the acquisition. Indirect costs relating to the acquisition are expensed when incurred based on the nature of the item.
In accordance with the requirements specified in SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", goodwill and identifiable intangible assets having an indefinite useful life are no longer amortized but are periodically assessed for impairment. Identifiable intangible assets having an estimated useful life are separately recognized and amortized over their estimated useful lives. The required assessment of goodwill impairment, was completed as of December 31, 2005 and management determined that no impairment exists.
Statement of Cash Flows
For purposes of the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are defined as the amounts included in the consolidated balance sheets under the captions "Cash & Due from Banks" and "Money Market Investments", with contractual maturities of less than 90 days.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Cash flows associated with derivative financial instruments are classified in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows in the same category as the cash flows from the assets or liabilities being hedged.
NOTE 2  Business Combinations
The Trust Company of New Jersey
In May 2004, The Trust Company of New Jersey ("TCNJ"), a New Jersey state-chartered bank was acquired, in a tax free merger. TCNJ shareholders received one share of the Company's common stock for each share of TCNJ common stock held or 27.8 million shares, adjusted for the three-for-two stock split. At the merger date, TCNJ had $4.1 billion in total assets, $1.4 billion in securities, $2.1 billion in loans, $3.2 billion in deposits and $.7 billion in borrowings.
GreenPoint Financial Corp.
In October 2004, GreenPoint Financial Corp. ("GreenPoint") was acquired, in a tax free merger. GreenPoint's shareholders received 1.0514 shares of the Company's common stock for each of share of GreenPoint common stock held, for a total issuance of 210.3 million shares (adjusted for the three-for-two stock split). GreenPoint operated two primary businesses, a retail savings bank (GreenPoint Bank) and a national mortgage company (GreenPoint Mortgage Funding, Inc.). At the merger date, GreenPoint had $27 billion in assets, $6.8 billion in securities, $5.1 billion in loans held-for-sale, $12.8 billion in loans held-for-investment, $12.8 billion in deposits and $11.4 billion in borrowings. On February 21, 2005, the operations of GreenPoint Bank were merged with and into North Fork Bank. GreenPoint Mortgage continues to operate as a separate subsidiary.
Identifiable Intangibles
The following table represents a roll forward of identifiable intangibles, which is comprised primarily of core deposits intangibles from previous acquisitions.
 
Amortization expense of identifiable intangibles was $36.6 million, $15.1 million and $3.6 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The aggregate amortization expense is projected to be $33.6 million, $25.6 million, $20.5 million, $16.1 million and $6.6 million in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively.
Goodwill
Goodwill was $5.9 billion for both 2005 and 2004, respectively. Any changes in goodwill during 2005 were insignificant and resulted from the final purchase accounting adjustments for facility and compensation related matters that were not available at the time we closed the acquisition of GreenPoint. Goodwill is analyzed for impairment on an annually basis. No impairment loss was recorded in 2005 or 2004.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 3  Securities
Available-for-Sale Securities
The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and estimated fair values of available-for-sale securities were as follows at December 31:
 
Held-to-Maturity Securities
The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and estimated fair values of held-to-maturity securities were as follows at December 31:
 
Mortgage backed securities represented 78% of total securities at December 31, 2005, and included pass-through certificates guaranteed by GNMA, FHLMC or FNMA and collateralized mortgage-backed obligations ("CMOs") backed by government agency pass-through certificates or whole loans. The pass-through certificates included both fixed and adjustable rate instruments. CMOs, by virtue of the underlying collateral or structure, are AAA rated and are either fixed rate current pay sequentials and planned amortization class (PAC) structures or adjustable rate issues. The adjustable rate pass-throughs and CMOs are principally Hybrid adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs). Hybrid ARMs typically have a fixed initial rate of interest from 3 through 7 years and at the end of that term convert to a one year adjustable rate of interest indexed to short term benchmarks (i.e. LIBOR or one-year Treasuries). Hybrid ARMs included in Pass-throughs and CMOs as of December 31, 2005 aggregated $2.6 billion.
At December 31, 2005, securities carried at $7.3 billion were pledged to secure securities sold under agreements to repurchase, other borrowings, and for other purposes as required by law. Securities pledged under agreements pursuant to which the collateral may be sold or re-pledged by the secured parties approximated $4.1 billion, while securities pledged under agreements pursuant to which the secured parties may not sell or re-pledge the collateral approximated $3.2 billion at December 31, 2005.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
At December 31, 2005, the amortized cost and estimated fair value of securities by contractual maturity are presented in the table below. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities since issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
 
The proceeds from realized gains and losses on securities were as follows at December 31,
 
In December 2005, $577 million in securities were identified as other than temporarily impaired resulting in a realized loss of $6.0 million. Theses securities were sold in January 2006. Gross realized gains and losses for 2005, 2004 and 2003 resulted from sales of mortgage backed securities, corporate bonds and certain equity and capital securities.
The following table provides the gross unrealized losses and fair value, aggregated by investment category and length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, as of December 31, 2005:
 
As of December 31, 2005, approximately 93% of the unrealized losses in the securities portfolio was comprised of mortgage-backed securities. The remaining 7% of the unrealized losses is concentrated in corporate bonds and state and municipal obligations. Management reviews these securities at least annually and there are no instances of credit or rating agency downgrades. Management believes these price movements can be attributed to the increase in current market credit spreads on similar issuances.
When purchasing investment securities, the Company's overall interest-rate risk profile is considered as well as the adequacy of expected returns relative to risks assumed, including prepayments. In continuously managing the investment securities portfolio, management occasionally sells investment securities as a result of changes in interest rates and spreads, actual or anticipated prepayments, credit risk associated with a particular security, and/or following the completion of a business combination.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 4  Loans
The composition of loans designated as held-for-sale are summarized as follows at December 31,:
 
The composition of loans designated as held-for investment are summarized as follows at December 31,:
 
The loan portfolio is concentrated primarily in loans secured by real estate. The segments of the real estate portfolio are diversified in terms of risk and repayment sources. The underlying collateral includes residential 1-4 family mortgages, and multi-family apartment buildings, owner occupied/non-owner occupied commercial properties and construction and land loans. The risks inherent in the loan portfolio are dependent on both regional and general economic stability, which affect property values and the financial well being and creditworthiness of the borrowers.
At December 31, 2005, loans secured by real estate of $4.0 billion were pledged as collateral under borrowing arrangements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.
Related Party Loans
Loans to related parties include loans to directors and their related companies and executive officers of the Company and its subsidiaries. Such loans are made in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms as loans to other individuals and businesses of comparable risks. We do not extend loans to directors and executive officers for purposes of financing the purchase of the company's common stock. Related party loans, consisting principally of residential mortgage loans, aggregated $4.9 million and $4.8 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Non-Performing Assets
Non-performing assets include loans ninety days past due and still accruing, non-accrual loans and other real estate. Other real estate consists of properties acquired through foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure. Other real estate is carried at the lower of the recorded amount of the loan or the fair value of the property based on the appraised value adjusted for estimated disposition costs. Other real estate is reflected on the accompanying balance sheet as a component of other assets.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The following table represents the components of non-performing assets at December 31,:
 
Interest foregone on non-accrual loans aggregated $2.2 million in 2005, $2.9 million in 2004 and $1.0 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. As part of the analysis for loan losses, certain loans are assessed for impairment as specified by the criteria established in SFAS No. 114 "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan". The level of loans identified as impaired and the related valuation was not significant at December 31, 2005 and 2004.
At December 31, 2005, there were no commitments to lend additional funds to borrowers whose loans were non-performing. Additionally, there were no restructured, accruing loans outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004.
NOTE 5  Allowance for Loan Losses
A summary of changes in the allowance for loan losses is shown below for the years ended December 31,:
 
NOTE 6  Premises and Equipment
The following is a summary of premises and equipment at December 31,:
 
Depreciation and amortization of premises and equipment, is reflected as a component of occupancy and equipment, net in the consolidated statements of income, was $43.1 million, $24.8 million and $15.4 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 7  Deposits
The following table represents the composition of customer deposit liabilities at December 31,:
 
The aggregate amount of overdrawn deposit balances reclassified as loans was $35.4 million and $24.0 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The following is a summary of the remaining maturity of time deposits including certificates of deposits, $100,000 and over as of December 31, 2005:
 
The remaining maturities of certificate of deposits in amounts of $100,000 and over at December 31, 2005, were as follows:
 
NOTE 8  Federal Funds Purchased and Collateralized Borrowings
The following table summarizes the components of federal funds purchased & collateralized borrowings at December 31,:
 
The following is a summary of federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase ("Repos") at and for the years ended December 31,:
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Interest swaps were used to convert certain Repos from variable rates to fixed rates. (See Note 10  "Derivative Financial Instruments" for additional information). The impact of these swaps was to change the weighted average interest rate paid in the above table to 3.19%, 2.81% and 2.85%, at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Qualifying Repos are treated as financings and the obligations to repurchase securities sold are reflected as liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The dollar amount of securities underlying the agreements remain in the asset accounts, although the securities underlying the agreements are delivered to the brokers who arranged the transactions. In certain instances, the brokers may have sold, loaned, or disposed of the securities to other parties in the normal course of their operations, and have agreed to resell substantially similar securities at the maturity of the agreements to the Company.
The following is a summary of the amortized cost and fair value of securities collateralizing Repos, in addition to the amounts of and the contractual interest rates on the related borrowings.
 
The contractual maturity of Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") Advances at December 31, 2005 is as follows:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Our banking subsidiaries have the ability to borrow an additional $11.9 billion on a secured basis, utilizing mortgage related loans and securities as collateral. At December 31, 2005, $4.1 billion in advances and repurchase agreements were outstanding with the FHLB.
Arrangements with correspondent banks are maintained to provide short-term credit for regulatory liquidity requirements. These available lines of credit aggregated $1.3 billion at December 31, 2005. We continually monitor our liquidity position as well as the liquidity positions of our banking subsidiaries and believe that sufficient liquidity exists to meet all of our operating requirements.
NOTE 9  Other Borrowings
The following tables summarize other borrowings outstanding as of December 31,:
Subordinated Notes:
 
$350 million of 5.875% Subordinated Notes and $150 million of 5% Fixed Rate/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes which mature in 2012, were issued in August 2002. These issuances qualify as Tier II capital for regulatory purposes. The 5.875% Subordinated Notes bear interest at a fixed rate through maturity, pay interest semi-annually and are not redeemable prior to maturity. The Fixed Rate/Floating Rate Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and convert to a floating rate thereafter until maturity based on three-month LIBOR plus 1.87%. Beginning in the sixth year, we have the right to redeem the Fixed Rate/Floating Rate Notes at par plus accrued interest. There are $500 million in pay floating swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that were used to convert the stated fixed rate on these Notes to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR.
(See Note 10  "Derivative Financial Instruments" for additional information).
$150 million of 9.25% Subordinated Bank Notes were assumed from GreenPoint. The 9.25% Subordinated Bank Notes mature in 2010, pay interest semi-annually and currently $120 million qualifies as Tier II capital for regulatory purposes. The 9.25% Subordinated Bank Notes were recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date and includes the remaining fair value discount of $28.6 million and $34.6 million at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, which reduced the effective cost of funds to 4.61%.
Junior Subordinated Debt (Related to Trust Preferred Securities):
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Capital Securities (or "Trust Preferred Securities"), which qualify as Tier I Capital for regulatory purposes, were issued through Wholly-Owned Statutory Business Trusts (the "Trusts"). The Trusts were initially capitalized with common stock and the proceeds of both the common stock and Capital Securities were used to acquire Junior Subordinated Debt issued by the Company. The Capital Securities are obligations of the Trusts. The Junior Subordinated Debt and Capital Securities bear the same interest rates, are due concurrently and are non-callable at any time in whole or in part for ten years from the date of issuance, except in certain limited circumstances. They may be redeemed annually thereafter, in whole or in part, at declining premiums to maturity. The costs associated with these issuances have been capitalized and are being amortized to maturity using the straight-line method.
$200 million of 9.10% Capital Securities were assumed from GreenPoint. The corresponding Junior Subordinated Debt of $206.2 million previously issued was recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date and includes the remaining fair value discount of $29.7 million and $31.1 million at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, which reduced the effective cost of funds to 7.63%.
Pay floating swaps of $245 million, designated as fair value hedges, were used to convert a corresponding amount in Junior Subordinated Debt from their stated fixed rates to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR.
(See Note 10  "Derivative Financial Instruments" for additional information.)
Senior Notes:
 
$350 million of 3.20% Senior Notes were assumed from GreenPoint. The 3.20% Senior Notes mature in 2008, and pay interest semi-annually. These notes were recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date and include the remaining fair value premium of $5.1 million and $7.1 million at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, which increased the effective cost of funds to 3.84%.
Pay floating swaps of $350 million, designated as fair value hedges, were used to convert the stated fixed rate on these notes to variable rates indexed to the three-month LIBOR.
(See Note 10  "Derivative Financial Instruments" for additional information).
NOTE 10  Derivative Financial Instruments
The use of derivative financial instruments creates exposure to credit risk. This credit exposure relates to losses that would be recognized if the counterparties fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. To mitigate this exposure to non-performance, we deal only with counterparties of good credit standing and establish counterparty credit limits. In connection with our interest rate risk management process, we periodically enter into interest rate derivative contracts. These derivative interest rate contracts may include interest rate swaps, caps, and floors and are used to modify the repricing characteristics of specific assets and liabilities.
The following table details the interest rate swaps and the associated hedged liabilities outstanding as of December 31, 2005:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
At December 31, 2005, $75 million in pay fixed swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, were outstanding. These agreements change the repricing characteristics of certain repurchase agreements, requiring us to make periodic fixed rate payments and receive periodic variable rate payments indexed to three-month LIBOR, based on a common notional amount and identical payment and maturity dates. As of December 31, 2005, these swaps had an unrealized loss of $2.2 million, which is recorded as a component of other liabilities (the net of tax amount of $1.2 million is reflected in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss). The use of pay fixed swaps outstanding increased interest expense by $2.6 million, $8.0 million and $23.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The decline in swap related interest expense was due primarily to the maturity of $100 million in the second quarter of 2004. Based upon the current interest rate environment, approximately $.6 million of the $1.2 million after tax unrealized loss is expected to be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss during the next twelve months.
At December 31, 2005, $1.1 billion of pay floating swaps, designated as fair value hedges, was outstanding. $350 million in pay floating swaps was used to convert the stated fixed rate on the 5.88% subordinated notes to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR. The swap term and payment dates match the related terms of the subordinated notes. $150 million in pay floating swaps were used to convert the stated fixed rate on the 5% subordinated notes to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR. The swap terms are for five years, matching the period of time the subordinated notes pay a fixed rate. Beginning in the sixth year, we have the right to redeem the fixed rate/floating rate notes at par plus accrued interest or the interest rate converts to a spread over three month LIBOR. At December 31, 2005, the fair value adjustment on these swaps resulted in a loss of $31.0 million and is reflected as a component of other liabilities. The carrying amount of the $500 million in subordinated notes was decreased by an identical amount. These swaps increased interest expense by approximately $.3 million and reduced interest expense by $9.0 million and $5.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. There was no hedge ineffectiveness recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income on these transactions for all periods reported.
$350 million of pay floating swaps was used to convert the stated fixed rate on the 3.20% senior notes to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR. The swap term and payment dates match the related terms of the senior notes. At December 31, 2005, the fair value adjustment on the swaps resulted in a loss of $10.1 million and is reflected as a component of other liabilities. The carrying amount of the $350 million in senior notes was decreased by an identical amount. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, these swaps reduced interest expense by $.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively. There was no hedge ineffectiveness recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income on these transactions for all periods reported.
Interest rate swap agreements were also used to change the repricing characteristics of $245 million in Junior Subordinated Debt from their stated fixed rates to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR. The swaps contain payment dates, maturity dates and embedded call options held by the counterparty (exercisable in approximately two years), which are identical to the terms and call provisions contained in the Junior Subordinated Debt. At December 31, 2005, the fair value adjustment on these swaps resulted in a gain totaling $7.4 million and is reflected as a component of other assets. The carrying amount of the $245 million in Junior Subordinated Debt was increased by an identical amount. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 these swaps reduced interest expense by $8.1 million, $12.6 million and $12.3 million, respectively. There was no hedge ineffectiveness recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income from these transactions for each period reported.
As part of our mortgage banking operations, we enter into commitments to originate or purchase loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is determined prior to funding ("interest rate lock commitment"). Interest rate lock commitments on mortgage loans that we intend to sell in the secondary market are considered free-standing derivatives. These derivatives are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as a component of gain on sale of loans. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105, "Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments", interest rate lock commitments are initially valued at zero. Changes in fair value subsequent to inception are determined based upon current secondary market prices for underlying loans with similar coupons, maturity and credit quality, subject to the anticipated probability that the loan will fund within the terms of the commitment. The initial value inherent in the loan commitments at origination is recognized through gain on sale of loans when the underlying loan is sold. Both the interest rate lock commitments and the related hedging instruments are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in current earnings as a component of gain on sale of loans.
Generally, if interest rates increase, the value of our interest rate lock commitments and funded loans decrease and loan sale margins are adversely impacted. We hedge the risk of overall changes in fair value of loans held-for-sale and interest rate lock commitments generally by entering into mandatory commitments to deliver mortgage whole loans to various investors, selling forward contracts on mortgage backed securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and, to a lesser extent, by using futures and options to economically hedge the fair value of interest rate lock commitments. In accordance with SFAS 133, certain of these positions qualify as fair value hedges against a portion of the funded held-for-sale loan portfolio and result in adjustments to the carrying value
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
of designated loans through gain on sale based on fair value changes attributable to the hedged risk. The forward contracts, futures and options used to economically hedge the loan commitments are accounted for as economic hedges and naturally offset loan commitment mark-to-market gains and losses recognized as a component of gain on sale.
The notional amount of all forward contracts was $1.9 billion at December 31, 2005. Forward contracts designated as fair value hedges associated with mortgage loans held-for-sale had a notional value of $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005. The notional amount of forward contracts used to manage the risk associated with interest rate lock commitments on mortgage loans was $407 million at December 31, 2005.
The following table shows hedge ineffectiveness on fair value hedges included in gain on sale of loans for the years ended December 31,:
 
NOTE 11  Income Taxes
The components of the consolidated provision for income taxes are shown below for the years ended December 31,:
 
The following table reconciles the statutory federal tax rate to the effective tax rate on income before income taxes for the years ended December 31,:
 
The components of the net deferred tax asset or liability included in "Other Assets" or "Accrued Expenses & Other Liabilities" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, are as follows:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
During 2005, the valuation allowance remained at $4.6 million. Management continues to reserve a portion of the New York State and City deferred tax asset due to uncertainties of realization. Additionally, as a result of merging with and acquiring thrifts, retained earnings at December 31, 2005 and 2004 includes approximately $276 million, for which no Federal income tax liability has been recognized. This amount represents the balance of acquired thrift bad debt reserves created for tax purposes as of December 31, 1987. These amounts are subject to recapture in the unlikely event that the Bank makes distributions in excess of earnings and profits, redeems its stock, or liquidates.
NOTE 12  Business Segments
In October 2004, we assumed a national mortgage business with the Green Point acquisition. As a result, we have divided our operating activity into two primary business segments: Retail Banking and Mortgage Banking.
The retail banking business provides a full range of banking products and services principally through 355 branches located throughout the New York Metropolitan area. The mortgage banking segment is conducted through GreenPoint Mortgage, which originates, sells and services a wide variety of mortgages secured by 1-4 family residences and small commercial properties, on a nationwide basis.
We changed our segment reporting structure in the fourth quarter of 2004, to reclassify our financial services division into the retail banking segment. The financial services division had previously been reported as a separate operating segment. The products offered by this segment included the sale of alternative investment products (mutual funds and annuities), trust services, discount brokerage and investment management. The primary delivery channel for these products is the retail bank's branches. As a result of the previously mentioned realignment, this area reports directly to the head of retail banking and from a budgeting and performance measurement perspective it is viewed as a component of the retail bank.
The segment information presented in the table below is prepared according to the following methodologies:
 
 
 
The following table provides information necessary for a reasonable representation of each segment's contribution to consolidated net income for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The table below represents the components of mortgage banking income for the years ended December 31,:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 13  Mortgage Servicing Rights
Mortgage Servicing Rights ("MSRs"), are recognized when mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market and the right to service these loans are retained for a fee. MSRs are carried at the lower of the initial carrying value, adjusted for amortization or fair value. MSRs are amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. The amortization of MSRs is periodically analyzed and adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds.
MSRs are periodically evaluated for impairment based on the difference between the carrying amount and current fair value. To evaluate and measure impairment, the underlying loans are stratified based on certain risk characteristics, including loan type, note rate and investor servicing requirements. If it is determined that temporary impairment exists, a valuation allowance is established by risk stratification through a charge to earnings for any excess of amortized cost over the current fair value. If determined in future periods that all or a portion of the temporary impairment no longer exists for a particular risk stratification, the valuation allowance is reduced by increasing earnings.
The following table sets forth the changes in the carrying value and fair value of mortgage servicing rights at December 31,:
 
The significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the servicing assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:
 
At December 31, 2005, the sensitivities to immediate 10% and 20% increases in the weighted average prepayment rates would decrease the fair value of mortgage servicing rights by $12.9 million and $24.2 million, respectively.
The following table summarizes our estimate of amortization of MSR's for the five-year period ending December 31, 2010. This projection was developed using the assumptions made by management in its December 31, 2005, valuation of MSR's. The assumptions underlying the following estimate will be affected as market conditions and portfolio composition and behavior change, causing both actual and projected amortization levels to change over time. Therefore, the following estimates will change in a manner and amount not presently determinable by management.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 14  Representation and Warranty Reserve
The representation and warranty reserve is available to cover probable losses inherent with the sale of loans in the secondary market. In the normal course of business, certain representations and warranties are made to investors at the time of sale, which permit the investor to return the loan to us or require us to indemnify the investor (make whole) for any losses incurred by the investor while the loan remains outstanding. The representation and warranty reserve is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
A summary of the changes in the representation and warranty reserve is shown below for the years ended December 31,:
 
NOTE 15  Retirement and Other Employee Benefit Plans
We maintain a defined benefit pension plan (the "Plan" or the "North Fork Plan") covering substantially all full-time employees. Pension expense is recognized over the employee's service life utilizing the projected unit cost actuarial method. Participants accrue a benefit each year equal to five percent of their annual compensation, as defined, plus a rate of interest based on the one-year Treasury Bill rate, credited quarterly. Plan assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of mutual funds, fixed income securities, and equity securities. Contributions are periodically made to the Plan so as to comply with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA") funding standards and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
TCNJ maintained two defined benefit retirement plans covering substantially all employees who completed one year of continuous service. Effective June 30, 2004, benefits under these plans were frozen and participants in these plans became eligible to participate in the North Fork Plan effective July 1, 2004.
GreenPoint maintained a defined benefit retirement plan covering substantially all employees who completed one year of service. Effective October 1, 2004, the GreenPoint Cash Balance Plan was merged into the North Fork Plan. The plan provisions for former GreenPoint employees were unchanged after the merger.
Health care and life insurance benefits are also provided to eligible retired employees. Health care benefits received range up to 100% of coverage premiums based on an employee's age, years of service and retirement date.
The following table sets forth changes in the benefit obligations, plan assets and a reconciliation of the funded status and the assumptions used in determining the net periodic cost included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements at December 31 for the Company's retirement and post-retirement plans. The Plans were valued using a December 31 measurement date.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption, consideration was given to the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio. This resulted in the selection of the 7.50% assumption for the year ended December 31, 2005.
The components of net periodic benefit cost follow for the years ended December 31,
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The following table sets forth the assumed health care costs trend rates at December 31,
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plan. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend would have the following effects:
 
Cash Flows
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service are expected to be paid:
 
Contributions
No contributions are expected to be made to the qualified pension plan during 2006, while $.7 million and $1.9 million are expected to be made to the non-qualified pension plan and other post-retirement benefit plan, respectively, in 2006.
Plan Asset Allocation
The plan's weighted-average asset allocations at December 31, 2005 and 2004, by asset category are as follows:
 
The investment guidelines adopted by the Retirement Committee for the Plan provide the following asset allocation requirements and limitations:
 
 
The guidelines specify equity allocations as follows: 1) Large Capitalization Value of 30% to 40%, 2) Large Capitalization Growth of 20% to 30%, 3) Middle Capitalization of 10% to 20%, 4) Smaller Capitalization of 5% to 15% and, 5) Diversified International of 10% to 20%.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Debt securities are limited by the investment guidelines to United States Government obligations or corporate issues rated Baa or higher by Standard & Poor's or Moody's. Cash equivalent securities may be viewed as alternative investment vehicles and are limited by the guidelines to mutual funds consisting of instruments issued by the United States Government, United States Treasury, Federal Reserve System or Federal Home Loan Bank, or mutual funds consisting of commercial paper issued by a domestic corporation rated "prime" by the National Credit Office, or of individual fixed income instruments rated A or P1 or higher, maturing in 180 days or less.
The guidelines require that the Plan's performance be reviewed periodically by comparing total rates of return to specified market indices.
The Company maintains a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP"), that restores to specified senior executives the full level of retirement benefits they would have been entitled to receive absent the ERISA provision limiting maximum payouts under tax qualified plans. The projected benefit obligation, which is unfunded, was $632 thousand at December 31, 2005 and $585 thousand at December 31, 2004. Net periodic pension expense of $104 thousand was recognized in 2005 and net periodic pension income of $41 thousand was recognized in 2004, while net periodic expense incurred in 2003 for the SERP was $103 thousand. The weighted average discount rate utilized in determining the projected benefit obligation was 5.50%, 5.75% and 6.00% at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The assumed rate of future compensation increases was 4.50% at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The Company expects to make a contribution to this plan of $.7 million in 2006.
A savings plan is maintained under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code and covers substantially all current full-time and certain part-time employees. Newly hired employees can elect to participate in the savings plan after completing three months of service. Under the provisions of the savings plan, employee contributions are partially matched by the Company with cash contributions. Participants can invest their account balances into several investment alternatives, including shares of the Company's common stock. 401(k) plan expense was $9.7 million, $4.7 million and $3.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.
Bank Owned Life Insurance
At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we maintained three Bank Owned Life Insurance Trusts (commonly referred to as BOLI) on the consolidated balance sheet. The BOLI trusts were formed to offset future employee benefit costs and to provide additional benefits due to its tax exempt nature. Only officer level employees, who have consented, have been insured under the program.
The underlying structure of the initial BOLI trust formed requires that the assets supporting the insurance policies be reported on the consolidated balance sheets, principally as a component of the available-for-sale securities portfolio and the related income to be characterized as either interest income or gain/(loss) on sale of securities. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, $216.8 million and $215.1 million, respectively were held by the trust and are principally included in the available-for-sale securities portfolio. Based on the underlying structures of the other two BOLI trusts the cash surrender values ("CSV") of the life insurance policies held by the trusts are required to be classified as other assets on the consolidated balance sheet and the related income/(loss) be characterized as other income. The cash surrender value of the policies held by these trusts were $208.8 million and $203.4 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
NOTE 16  Common Stock Plans
The Company maintains stock incentive plans for all eligible employees providing for grants of stock options and restricted stock awards. Options to purchase common stock are granted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the average market price on the date of grant, generally vest within six months from issuance and have a ten-year expiration period. The Company has not, nor does it anticipate, repricing any stock options.
Restricted stock awards granted by the Compensation Committee are forfeitable and subject to certain restrictions on the part of the recipient until ownership of the shares vest. The Committee can, at its discretion, accelerate the removal of any and all restrictions. If the Company is party to a merger, consolidation, sale of substantially all assets, or similar transaction, all restrictions will lapse.
New Employee Stock Compensation Plan
The plan provides for non-qualified stock options and restricted stock awards, to be granted either separately or in combination to all eligible persons not previously employed by the Company in connection with their entering into such an employment relationship. The number of shares issuable thereunder, either as restricted stock or non-qualified stock options is 1,500,000 shares. At December 31, 2005, 822,650 shares remain authorized and unissued.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
2003 Stock Compensation Plan
The plan provides for non-qualified stock options and restricted stock awards, to be granted either separately or in combination to all eligible employees. The number of shares issuable thereunder is 7,500,000, with no more than 4,950,000 authorized for restricted stock awards. At December 31, 2005, 1,987,456 shares remained authorized and unissued.
GreenPoint 1999 Stock Incentive Plan
This plan was assumed and retained as part of the GreenPoint acquisition. The plan provides for non-qualified stock options and restricted stock awards, to be granted either separately or in combination to all eligible employees. The number of shares issuable thereunder is 1,228,193, with no more than 300,000 authorized for restricted stock awards. At December 31, 2005, 707,922 shares remained authorized and unissued.
1999 Stock Compensation Plan
The plan provides for non-qualified stock options and restricted stock awards, to be granted either separately or in combination to all eligible employees. The number of shares issuable thereunder is 7,500,000, with no more than 4,950,000 authorized for restricted stock awards. At December 31, 2005, 25,185 shares remained authorized and unissued.
1998 Stock Compensation Plan
The plan provides for non-qualified stock options and restricted stock awards, to be granted either separately or in combination to all eligible employees. The number of shares issuable thereunder is 2,250,000 with no more than 1,500,000 authorized for restricted stock awards. At December 31, 2005, 6,984 shares remain authorized and unissued.
Acquired Stock Plans
Certain previously acquired companies maintained incentive and non-qualified stock option plans for their officers, directors, and other key employees. Options outstanding, under these plans at the acquisition date were vested upon change in control. At December 31, 2005, 7,817,392 stock options remained outstanding under these plans at an average price of $17.52. No further awards will be made under these assumed plans.
The following is a summary of the activity in the aforementioned stock option plans for the three-year period ended December 31,
 
The following is a summary of the information concerning outstanding and exercisable stock options as of December 31, 2005:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The following is a summary of activity in restricted stock for the years ended December 31,
 
Restricted stock awards are recorded as deferred compensation, a component of stockholders' equity, at fair value at the date of grant and amortized to compensation expense over the specified vesting periods.
Compensation expense related to restricted stock awards included in employee compensation and benefits was $21.2 million, $14.7 million, and $10.3 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
As permitted under SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148, management has elected to apply the intrinsic value method in accounting for its stock-based compensation plans. Accordingly, compensation expense has not been recognized in the accompanying statements of income for its stock-based compensation plans, other than for restricted stock awards. Had compensation expense been recognized for the fair value of options awarded consistent with the methodology prescribed, pro-forma net income and earnings per share would have been as follows for the years ended December 31,
 
For purposes of the pro-forma amounts, the fair value of stock options granted were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model at the date of grants. The weighted average assumptions used in the computations are as follows:
 
Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
The Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan provides stockholders with a method of purchasing additional common stock through the reinvestment of cash dividends and/or making optional cash payments, within certain specified limits, without brokerage commissions. At December 31, 2005, 2,350,780 shares remain authorized and unissued.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Change-in-Control Arrangements
Certain key executive officers have arrangements that provide for the payment of a multiple of base salary, should a change-in control, as defined, occur. These payments are limited under guidelines for deductibility pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. Also, in connection with a potential change-in-control, certain performance plans were adopted in which substantially all employees could participate in a cash distribution. The amount of the performance plan cash fund would be established when a change-in-control transaction occurs that exceeds industry averages and achieves an above average return for shareholders. A limitation is placed on the amount of the fund and no performance pool is created if the transaction does not exceed industry averages.
NOTE 17  Other Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
Credit Related Commitments
We offer traditional off-balance sheet financial products to meet the financing needs of our customers through both our retail banking and mortgage banking segments. They include commitments to extend credit, lines of credit and letters of credit. Funded commitments are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as loans.
Retail Banking
Our retail banking segment provides the following types of off-balance sheet financial products to customers:
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to customers in accordance with contractual provisions. These commitments usually have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require the payment of a fee. Total commitments outstanding do not necessarily represent future cash flow requirements, since many commitments expire without being funded.
Each customer's creditworthiness is evaluated prior to issuing these commitments and may require the customer to pledge certain collateral prior to the extension of credit. Collateral varies but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment, and income-producing properties. Fixed rate commitments are subject to interest rate risk based on changes in prevailing rates during the commitment period. We are subject to credit risk in the event that the commitments are drawn upon and the customer is unable to repay the obligation.
Letters of credit are irrevocable commitments issued at the request of customers. They authorize the beneficiary to draw drafts for payment in accordance with the stated terms and conditions. Letters of credit substitute a bank's creditworthiness for that of the customer and are issued for a fee commensurate with the risk.
We typically issue two types of letters of credit: Commercial (documentary) Letters of Credit and Standby Letters of Credit. Commercial Letters of Credit are commonly issued to finance the purchase of goods and are typically short term in nature. Standby letters of credit are issued to back financial or performance obligations of a bank customer, and are typically issued for periods up to one year. Due to their long-term nature, standby letters of credit require adequate collateral in the form of cash or other liquid assets. In most instances, standby letters of credit expire without being drawn upon. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as extending credit facilities to comparable customers.
The following table presents total commitments and letters of credit outstanding for the retail banking segment at December 31, 2005:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Mortgage Banking
At December 31, 2005, the pipeline of residential mortgage loans (including Home Equity Lines of Credit) was $5.3 billion and included $1.3 billion of fixed rate loans and $4.0 billion of adjustable rate loans. The pipeline represents total applications received but not yet funded.
We are also contractually committed to fund the undrawn portion of Home Equity Lines of Credit (HELOCs), which were previously originated. This commitment extends to both HELOCs held-for-sale and those previously sold with servicing retained.
The following table presents the mortgage banking segment's commitments and home equity lines of credit outstanding at December 31, 2005:
 
Lease Commitments
At December 31, 2005, we were obligated under a number of non-cancelable leases for certain premises and equipment. The minimum annual rental commitments, exclusive of taxes and other charges, under non-cancelable lease agreements for premises at December 31, 2005, are summarized as follows:
 
The majority of these leases contain periodic escalation clauses and it is anticipated that expiring leases should be renewed or replaced by leases on other properties.
Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 amounted to $71.6 million, $39.8 million and $24.5 million, respectively.
Litigation
We are subject to certain pending and threatened legal actions that arise out of the normal course of business. Management believes that the resolution of any pending or threatened litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
NOTE 18  Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107 "Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments" ("SFAS 107") requires the Company to disclose estimated fair values for its financial instruments. Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market data and information about the financial instrument. SFAS 107 has no effect on the financial position or results of operations in the current year or any future period. Furthermore, the fair values disclosed under SFAS 107 are not representative of the total value of the Company.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
If quoted market prices are not available, SFAS 107 permits using the present value of anticipated future cash flows to estimate fair value. Accordingly, the estimated fair value will be influenced by prepayment and discount rate assumptions. This method may not provide the actual amount that would be realized in the ultimate sale of the financial instrument.
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Securities
The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents are reasonable estimates of fair value. The fair value of securities is estimated based on quoted market prices as published by various quotation services, or if quoted market prices are not available, on dealer quotes. The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of cash, cash equivalents and securities at December 31,
 
Loans
Fair values are estimated for portfolios of loans with similar financial characteristics. The fair value of performing loans is calculated by discounting the estimated cash flows through expected maturity or repricing using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit risks. For non-performing loans, the present value is separately discounted consistent with management's assumptions in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. The following table presents the carrying amount and the estimated fair value of the loan portfolio as of December 31,
 
Mortgage Servicing Rights
To determine fair value, a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income, is utilized. We use assumptions in the valuation model that market participants use when estimating future net servicing income, including prepayment speeds, discount rates, default rates, cost to service, escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees.
 
Deposit Liabilities and Borrowings
The carrying amounts for demand deposits, savings, NOW, money market accounts and borrowings with an interest sensitive period of 90 days or less are reasonable estimates of their fair values. Fair values for time deposits and borrowings are estimated by discounting the future cash flows using the rates currently offered for deposits and borrowings of similar remaining maturities.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The following table presents the carrying amount and estimated fair value of the deposits and borrowings as of December 31,
 
Commitments to Extend Credit and Letters of Credit
These financial instruments generally are not sold or traded, and estimated fair values are not readily available. However, the fair value of commitments to extend credit and letters of credit is based on fees currently charged to enter into similar agreements with comparable credit risks and the current creditworthiness of the counterparties. Commitments to extend credit issued by the Company are generally short-term in nature and, if drawn upon, are issued under current market terms and conditions for credits with comparable risks. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, there was no significant unrealized appreciation or depreciation on these financial instruments.
NOTE 19  Parent Company Only
Condensed Balance Sheets at December 31,
 
Condensed Statements of Income For the Years Ended December 31,
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended December 31,
 
NOTE 20  Capital
We are subject to the risk based capital guidelines administered by bank regulatory agencies. The guidelines are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Under these guidelines, assets and certain off- balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets and certain off-balance sheet items. The guidelines require all banks and bank holding companies to maintain a minimum ratio of total risk based capital to total risk weighted assets ("Total Risk Adjusted Capital Ratio") of 8%, including Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets ("Tier 1 Capital Ratio") of 4% and a Tier 1 capital to average total assets ("Leverage Ratio") of at least 4%. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators, that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on us.
The regulatory agencies have amended the risk-based capital guidelines to provide for interest rate risk consideration when determining a banking institution's capital adequacy. The amendments require institutions to effectively measure and monitor their interest rate risk and to maintain capital adequate for that risk.
As of December 31, 2005, the most recent notification from the various regulators categorized the Company and its subsidiary banks as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. Under the capital adequacy guidelines require a well capitalized institution to maintain a Total Risk Adjusted Capital Ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 Capital Ratio of at least 6%, a Leverage Ratio of at least 5%, and not be subject to any written order, agreement or directive. Since such notification, there are no conditions or events that management believes would change this classification.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The following table sets forth the Company's risk-based capital amounts and ratios as of December 31,:
 
The Leverage Ratio at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 6.70% and 6.22%, respectively.
The capital ratios of the subsidiary banks are as follows at December 31, 2005:
 
Under the provisions of our share repurchase program previously authorized by the Board of Directors, we repurchased 14.9 million shares at an average cost of $26.24 during 2005. As of December 31, 2005, 2.4 million shares were available to be purchased under the program. On January 24, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 12 million shares increasing the total remaining authorized for repurchase to 14.4 million. As of March 6, 2005, 5.1 million shares remain available to be purchased under the program. The current program has no fixed expiration date. Repurchases are made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions.
The primary funding source of the Company is dividends from North Fork Bank. There are various federal and state banking laws and guidelines limiting the extent to which a bank subsidiary can finance or otherwise supply funds to its holding company. At December 31, 2005, dividends from North Fork Bank were limited under such guidelines to $1.3 billion. From a regulatory standpoint, North Fork Bank with its current balance sheet structure had the ability to dividend approximately $1.1 billion while still meeting the criteria for designation as a well-capitalized institution under existing regulatory capital guidelines. Additional sources of liquidity include borrowings, the sale of available-for-sale securities, mortgage loans held-for-sale, funds available through the capital markets and dividends from other subsidiaries.
Federal Reserve Board policy provides that, as a prudent banking practice, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common stockholders is sufficient to fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the holding company's capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. In addition, among other things, dividends from a New York-chartered bank, such as North Fork Bank, are limited to the bank's net profits for the current year plus its prior two years' retained net profits.
Under federal law, a depository institution is prohibited from paying a dividend if the depository institution would thereafter be "undercapitalized" as determined by the federal bank regulatory agencies. The relevant federal regulatory agencies and the state regulatory agency, the Banking Department, also have the authority to prohibit a bank or bank holding company from engaging in what, in the opinion of such regulatory body, constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting its business.
North Fork Bank and Superior Savings of New England were required to maintain, in aggregate, required reserves, either in cash or on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank $295 million and $225 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively.
NOTE 21  Sale of Manufactured Housing Operations
In the fourth quarter of 2004, we completed the sale of the manufactured housing operating platform of GreenPoint Credit LLC, ("GPC"), previously accounted for as discontinued operations by GreenPoint. As a condition of the transaction, the purchaser assumed the obligation to reimburse us, if necessary, for the final $165 million of losses on $399 million of corporate guarantees related to $2.5 billion of GPC securitizations remaining as of December 31, 2005. Certain corporate guarantees have been funded and the
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
residual remains unfunded letters of credit. The expected letter of credit draws that remain unfunded are recorded as liabilities for recourse, and included in accrued expenses and other liabilities, while the expected net residual balances on funded corporate guarantees are reflected in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, the purchaser assumed all recourse obligations related to former GPC sales of certain whole loans to Freddie Mac and commitments to exercise the mandatory clean-up calls on certain of the securitizations.
North Fork retains the primary obligation for all of the provisions of the corporate guarantees, recourse sales and clean-up calls. Management will continue to monitor the underlying assets for trends in delinquencies and related losses. In addition, we will review the purchaser's financial strength and their performance in servicing the loans. These factors will be considered in assessing the appropriateness of the reserves established against these obligations and the valuations of the assets.
As of December 31, 2005, the principal balance outstanding for these securitizations totaled $2.5 billion, the recorded liabilities for expected unfunded draws were $45 million and the funded net receivable balances amounted to $100 million. These amounts were calculated utilizing weighted average prepayment and default rates of 5.9% and 8.4% respectively. These factors along with assumed loss severity and weighted average loss rates of 93% and 7.9% respectively, result in an estimated cumulative loss rate of 33%. The discount rate used to establish these amounts was 10%.
NOTE 22  Quarterly Financial Information  (Unaudited)
Selected Quarterly Financial Information for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:
 
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 23  Recent Accounting Pronouncements
The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments
In November 2005, the FASB issued Financial Staff Position No. 115-1, which addresses the determination of when an investment is considered impaired, whether the impairment is other-than-temporary and how to measure an impairment loss. FSP No. 115-1 also addresses accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment on a debt security and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. FSP No. 115-1 replaces the impairment guidance in Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 03-1, "The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments," with references to existing authoritative literature concerning other-than-temporary impairment determinations (principally SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 59, "Accounting for Non-current Marketable Securities"). Under FSP No. 115-1, impairment losses must be recognized in earnings for the difference between the security's cost and its fair value at the financial statement date, without considering partial recoveries subsequent to that date. FSP No. 115-1 also requires that an investor recognize an other-than-temporary impairment loss when a decision to sell a security has been made and the investor does not expect the fair value of the security to fully recover prior to the expected time of sale. FSP No 115-1 is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect our application of FSP No. 115-1 to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.
Accounting for Stock Based Compensation
In December 2004, FASB issued SFAS No. 123R  "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, Share Based Payment", (SFAS 123R) which replaces the guidance prescribed in SFAS 123. SFAS 123R requires that compensation costs relating to share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. The associated costs will be measured based on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. SFAS 123R covers wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including share options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights and employee share purchase plans. SFAS 123R is effective as of the first interim or annual reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005. Adoption of this pronouncement is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.
NOTE 24  Subsequent Event
On March 12, 2006, North Fork announced that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Capital One Financial Corporation (Capital One) pursuant to which North Fork would merge with and into Capital One, with Capital One continuing as the surviving corporation. Capital One, headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a financial holding company whose banking and non-banking subsidiaries market a variety of financial products and services. Its primary products and services offered through its subsidiaries include credit card products, deposit products, consumer and commercial lending, automobile and other motor vehicle financing, and a variety of other financial products and services to consumers, small business and commercial clients.
Subject to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each holder of North Fork common stock will have the right, subject to proration, to elect to receive, for each share of North Fork common stock, cash or Capital One common stock, in either case having a value equal to $11.25 plus the product of 0.2216 times the average closing sales price of Capital One's common stock for the five trading days immediately preceding the merger date. Based on Capital One's closing NYSE stock price of $89.92 on March 10, 2006, the transaction is valued at $31.18 per North Fork share, for a total transaction value of approximately $14.6 billion. North Fork stock options vest upon a change in control and will be converted into options on shares of Capital One's common stock in connection with the closing, if not exercised before that time. North Fork's restricted shares outstanding also vest upon a change in control. Each outstanding North Fork restricted share will be converted into the right to receive the per share merger consideration elected by the holder of the North Fork restricted share, subject to proration.
The merger is subject to certain conditions, including approval by North Fork stockholders and Capital One stockholders, receipt of regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2006.
There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure as defined in Item 304 of Regulation S-K.
 

Exhibit 99.2
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
In these notes, where the context requires, "the Company", "North Fork", "we", "us", and "our" refer to North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Note 1  Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. is a regional bank holding company organized under the laws of the State of Delaware and registered as a "bank holding company" under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. We are not a "financial holding company" as defined under the federal law. We are committed to providing superior customer service, while offering a full range of banking products and financial services, to both our consumer and commercial customers. Our primary subsidiary, North Fork Bank, operates from more than 350 retail bank branches in the New York Metropolitan area. We also operate a nationwide mortgage business, GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc. ("GreenPoint Mortgage" or "GPM"). Through our other non-bank subsidiaries, we offer financial products and services to our customers including asset management, securities brokerage, and the sale of alternative investment products. We also operate a second subsidiary bank, Superior Savings of New England, N.A. ("Superior"), which focuses on telephonic and media-based generation of deposits.
Proposed Plan of Merger with Capital One Financial Corporation
On March 12, 2006, North Fork announced that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One") pursuant to which North Fork would merge with and into Capital One, with Capital One continuing as the surviving corporation. Capital One, headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a financial holding company whose banking and non-banking subsidiaries market a variety of financial products and services. Capital One's primary products and services offered through its subsidiaries include credit card products, deposit products, consumer and commercial lending, automobile and other motor vehicle financing, and a variety of other financial products and services for consumers, small businesses and commercial clients.
Subject to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each holder of North Fork common stock will have the right, subject to proration, to elect to receive, for each share of North Fork common stock, cash or Capital One common stock, in either case having a value equal to $11.25 plus the product of, in connection with the proposed merger, 0.2216 times the average closing sales price of Capital One's common stock for the five trading days immediately preceding the merger date. Based on Capital One's closing NYSE stock price of $89.92 on March 10, 2006, the transaction is valued at $31.18 per North Fork share, for a total transaction value of approximately $14.6 billion.
On November 8, 2006, the Federal Reserve Board approved the merger of North Fork with and into Capital One. On August 22, 2006, our stockholders also approved the merger of North Fork with and into Capital One. The merger is expected to occur on December 1, 2006.
The election deadline by which North Fork stockholders can elect whether they would prefer to receive cash or Capital One common stock in the merger has been set for 5:00 p.m., New York City time on November 27, 2006.
Basis of Presentation
The accounting and financial reporting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries are in conformity with U.S generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with U.S generally accepted accounting principles, requires that management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates are subject to change in the future as additional information becomes available or previously existing circumstances are modified. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities. All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. The consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which in the opinion of management, are necessary for the fair statement of the interim period results presented.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements and related management's discussion and analysis should be read together with the consolidated financial information in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K/A, previously filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations which may be expected for the full year 2006 or any future interim period.
In reviewing and understanding the financial information contained herein, you are encouraged to read the significant accounting policies contained in Note 1  Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our 2005 Annual Report in Form 10-K/A. There have not been any significant changes in the factors or methodology used in determining accounting estimates or applied in our critical accounting policies since December 2005 that are material in relation to our financial condition or results of operations.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123R  "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, Share Based Payment", (SFAS 123R) which replaced the guidance prescribed in SFAS 123. SFAS 123R requires that compensation costs relating to share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. The associated costs will be measured based on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. SFAS 123R covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including share options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights and employee share purchase plans. Restricted stock awards previously recorded as deferred compensation, a component of stockholders' equity were reclassified to additional paid-in-capital upon adoption. Restricted Stock Awards are recorded at fair value at the date of grant and are amortized to compensation expense over the awards vesting period in accordance with SFAS 123R. This accounting practice is consistent with our prior accounting treatment of restricted stock awards. Substantially, all employee stock options are awarded at the end of the year as part of an employees overall compensation, based on the individual's performance during that year, and either vest immediately or over a nominal period. Therefore, the effect on net income of expensing stock options during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 was not material.
Critical Accounting Policies
We have identified four accounting policies that are critical to our financial statement presentation and require critical accounting estimates, involving significant valuation adjustments, on the part of management. The following is a description of those policies:
Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses
The allowance for loan losses is available to cover probable losses inherent in the loans held-for-investment portfolio. Loans held-for-investment, or portions thereof, deemed uncollectible are charged to the allowance for loan losses, while recoveries, if any, of amounts previously charged-off are added to the allowance. Amounts are charged-off after giving consideration to such factors as the customer's financial condition, underlying collateral values and guarantees, and general economic conditions.
The evaluation process for determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and the periodic provisioning for estimated losses is undertaken on a quarterly basis, but may increase in frequency should conditions arise that would require our prompt attention. Conditions giving rise to such action are business combinations or other acquisitions or dispositions of large quantities of loans, dispositions of non-performing and marginally performing loans by bulk sale or any development which may indicate an adverse trend. Recognition is also given to the changing risk profile resulting from business combinations, customer performance, results of ongoing credit-quality monitoring processes and the cyclical nature of economic and business conditions.
The loan portfolio is categorized according to collateral type, loan purpose or borrower type (i.e. commercial, consumer). The categories used include Multi-Family Mortgages, Residential 1-4 Family Mortgages, Commercial Mortgages, Commercial and Industrial, Consumer, and Construction and Land, which are more fully described in the section entitled Management's Discussion and Analysis,  "Loans Held-for-Investment." An important consideration is our concentration of real estate related loans.
The methodology employed for assessing the adequacy of the allowance consists of the following criteria:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
The initial allocation or specific-allowance methodology commences with loan officers and underwriters grading the quality of their loans on a risk classification scale ranging from 1-10. Loans identified as below investment grade are referred to our independent Loan Review Department ("LRD") for further analysis and identification of those factors that may ultimately affect the full recovery or collectibility of principal and/or interest. These loans are subject to continuous review and monitoring while they remain in a criticized category. Additionally, LRD is responsible for performing periodic reviews of the loan portfolio independent from the identification process employed by loan officers and underwriters. Loans that fall into criticized categories are further evaluated for impairment in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan." The portion of the allowance allocated to impaired loans is based on the most appropriate of the following measures: discounted cash flows from the loan using the loan's effective interest rate, the fair value of the collateral for collateral dependent loans, or the observable market price of the impaired loan.
The remaining allocation applies a category specific loss experience factor to loans which have not been specifically reviewed for impairment, including smaller balance homogeneous loans that we have identified as residential and consumer, which are not specifically reserved for impairment. These category specific factors give recognition to our historical loss experience, as well as that of acquired businesses, cyclical trends, current economic conditions and our exposure to real estate values. These factors are reviewed on a quarterly basis with senior lenders to ensure that the factors applied to each loan category are reflective of trends or changes in the current business environment which may affect these categories.
Upon completion of both allocation processes, the specific and loss experience factor method allocations are combined, producing the allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan category. Other factors used to evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses include the amount and trend of criticized loans, results of regulatory examinations, peer group comparisons and economic data associated with the relevant markets, specifically the local real estate market. Because many loans depend upon the sufficiency of collateral, any adverse trend in the relevant real estate markets could have a significant adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio. This may lead management to consider that the overall allowance level should be greater than the amount determined by the allocation process described above.
Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument is determined by whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and on the type of hedging relationship. Transactions hedging changes in the fair value of a recognized asset, liability, or firm commitment are classified as fair value hedges. Derivative instruments hedging exposure to variable cash flows of recognized assets, liabilities or forecasted transactions are classified as cash flow hedges.
Fair value hedges result in the immediate recognition through earnings of gains or losses on the derivative instrument, as well as corresponding losses or gains on the hedged financial instrument to the extent they are attributable to the hedged risk. The gain or loss on the effective portion of a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is reported as a component of other comprehensive income, and reclassified to earnings in the same period that the hedged transaction affects earnings. The gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the derivative instrument, if any, is recognized in earnings for both fair value and cash flow hedges. Derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment are recorded at fair value and classified as trading assets or liabilities with the resultant changes in fair value recognized in earnings during the period of change.
In the event of early termination of a derivative contract, previously designated as part of a cash flow hedging relationship, any resulting gain or loss is deferred as an adjustment to the carrying value of the assets or liabilities, against which the hedge had been designated with a corresponding offset to other comprehensive income, and reclassified to earnings over the shorter of the remaining life of the designated assets or liabilities, or the derivative contract. However, if the hedged item is no longer on balance sheet (i.e. sold or canceled), the derivative gain or loss is immediately reclassified to earnings.
As part of our mortgage banking operations, we enter into commitments to originate or purchase loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is determined prior to funding ("interest rate lock commitment"). Interest rate lock commitments related to loans that we intend to sell in the secondary market are considered free-standing derivatives. These derivatives are required to be recorded at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in current period earnings. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105, "Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments", interest rate lock commitments are initially valued at zero. Changes in
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
fair value subsequent to inception are based on changes in the fair value of loans with similar characteristics and changes in the probability that the loan will fund within the terms of the commitment, which is affected primarily by changes in interest rates and passage of time. In general, the probability that a loan will fund increases if mortgage rates rise and decreases if mortgage rates fall. The initial value inherent in the loan commitment at origination is recognized through gain on sale of loans when the underlying loan is sold.
We are exposed to interest rate risk from the time an interest rate lock commitment is made to a borrower to the time the resulting mortgage loan is sold in the secondary market. To manage this risk, we use derivatives, primarily forward sales contracts on mortgage backed securities and forward delivery commitments, in an amount equal to the portion of interest rate contracts expected to close. The duration of these derivatives are selected to have the changes in their fair value correlate closely with the changes in fair value of the interest rate lock commitments on loans to be sold. These derivatives are also required to be recorded at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in current period earnings.
Representation and Warranty Reserve
The representation and warranty reserve is available to cover probable losses inherent with the sale of loans in the secondary market. In the normal course of business, certain representations and warranties are made to investors at the time of sale, which permit the investor to return the loan to the seller or require the seller to indemnify the investor (make whole) for any losses incurred by the investor while the loan remains outstanding.
The evaluation process for determining the adequacy of the representation and warranty reserve and the periodic provisioning for estimated losses is performed for each product type on a quarterly basis. Factors considered in the evaluation process include historical sales volumes, aggregate repurchase and indemnification activity and actual losses incurred. Additions to the reserve are recorded as a reduction to the gain on sale of loans. Losses incurred on loans where we are required to either repurchase the loan or make payments to the investor under the indemnification provisions are charged against the reserve. The representation and warranty reserve is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Mortgage Servicing Rights
The right to service mortgage loans for others, or Mortgage Servicing Rights ("MSRs"), is recognized when mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market and the right to service those loans for a fee is retained. The MSRs initial carrying value is determined by allocating the recorded investment in the underlying mortgage loans between the assets sold and the interest retained based on their relative fair values at the date of transfer. Fair value of the MSRs is determined using the present value of the estimated future cash flows of net servicing income. MSRs are carried at the lower of the initial carrying value, adjusted for amortization, or fair value. MSRs are amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. The amortization of MSRs is periodically analyzed and adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds.
To determine fair value, a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income is utilized. We use assumptions in the valuation model that market participants use when estimating future net servicing income, including prepayment speeds, discount rates, default rates, cost to service, escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees.
MSRs are periodically evaluated for impairment based on the difference between the carrying amount and current fair value. To evaluate and measure impairment, the underlying loans are stratified based on certain risk characteristics, including loan type, note rate and investor servicing requirements. If it is determined that temporary impairment exists, a valuation allowance is established through a charge to earnings for any excess of amortized cost over the current fair value, by risk stratification. If determined in future periods that all or a portion of the temporary impairment no longer exists for a particular risk stratification, the valuation allowance is reduced thereby increasing earnings. However, if impairment for a particular risk stratification is deemed other-than-temporary (recovery of a recorded valuation allowance is remote), a direct write-down, permanently reducing the carrying value of the MSRs is recorded. The periodic evaluation of MSRs for other-than-temporary impairment considers both historical and projected trends in interest rates, payoff activity and whether impairment could be recovered through increases in market interest rates.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 2  SECURITIES
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of available-for-sale securities are as follows:
 
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity securities are as follows:
 
At September 30, 2006, securities carried at $5.8 billion were pledged to secure securities sold under agreements to repurchase, other borrowings, and for other purposes as required by law. Securities pledged under agreements pursuant to which the collateral may be sold or repledged by the secured parties approximated $2.3 billion, while securities pledged under agreements pursuant to which the secured parties may not sell or repledge approximated $3.5 billion at September 30, 2006.
NOTE 3  LOANS
The composition of loans designated as held-for-sale are summarized as follows:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The composition of loans held-for-investment are summarized as follows:
 
At September 30, 2006, loans held-for-investment of $9.4 billion were pledged as collateral under borrowing arrangements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.
Non-Performing Assets
Non-performing assets include loans ninety days past due and still accruing, non-accrual loans and other real estate. Other real estate consists of properties acquired through foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure. Other real estate is carried at the lower of the recorded amount of the loan or the fair value of the property based on the current appraised value adjusted for estimated disposition costs.
The following table presents the components of non-performing assets as of the dates indicated:
 
Non-performing loans held-for-investment includes loans ninety days past due and still accruing totaling $1.1 million, $3.5 million and $4.9 million at September 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, respectively.
Future levels of non-performing assets will be influenced by prevailing economic conditions and the impact of those conditions on our customers, prevailing interest rates, unemployment rates, property values, and other internal and external factors, including potential sales of such assets.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 4  ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
A summary of changes in the allowance for loan losses for loans held-for-investment is shown below for the periods indicated:
 
NOTE 5  FEDERAL FUNDS PURCHASED AND COLLATERALIZED BORROWINGS
The following table summarizes the components of federal funds purchased and collateralized borrowings for the periods indicated:
 
The expected maturity or repricing of Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") Advances and Repurchase Agreements ("Repos") at September 30, 2006 is as follows:
 
Interest rate swaps were used to convert $75 million in Repos from variable rates to fixed rates. These swaps qualify as cash flow hedges and are explained in more detail in "Note 9  Derivative Financial Instruments."
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
NOTE 6  OTHER BORROWINGS
The following table summarizes other borrowings outstanding as of the dates indicated:
SUBORDINATED NOTES
 
$350 million of 5.875% Subordinated Notes and $150 million of 5% Fixed Rate/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes which mature in 2012, were issued in August 2002 and qualify as Tier II capital for regulatory purposes. The 5.875% Subordinated Notes bear interest at a fixed rate through maturity, pay interest semi-annually and are not redeemable prior to maturity. The Fixed Rate/Floating Rate Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and convert to a floating rate thereafter until maturity based on three-month LIBOR plus 1.87%. Beginning in the sixth year, we have the right to redeem the Fixed Rate/Floating Rate Notes at par plus accrued interest.
$350 million in pay floating swaps, designated as fair value hedges on the 5.875% Subordinated Notes, were used to convert a corresponding amount of the Notes from their stated fixed rates to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR for all periods presented. At December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, $150 million in pay floating swaps, designated as fair value hedges on the 5.0% Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes were used to convert their stated fixed rates to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR. As of April 1, 2006 it was determined that these swaps did not meet the stated requirements of the short-cut method of accounting as prescribed in SFAS No. 133 and accordingly were reclassified as trading instruments and are more fully described in Note 9  Derivative Financial Instruments. The fair value hedge adjustments in the table above includes the effect on the $150 million 5.0% Fixed/Floating Subordinated Notes that existed at December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, respectively.
$150 million of 9.25% Subordinated Bank Notes mature in 2010, pay interest semi-annually and have a carrying value of $174.1 million at September 30, 2006. These Notes were assumed through a prior acquisition and include a remaining fair value discount totaling $24.1 million, $28.6 million and $30.1 million at September 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, respectively, which reduced the effective cost of funds to 4.61% for the periods presented. As of September 30, 2006, $120 million qualified as Tier II capital for regulatory purposes.
JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBT (related to Trust Preferred Securities):
 
Capital Securities (or "Trust Preferred Securities"), which qualify as Tier I Capital for regulatory purposes, were issued through Wholly-Owned Statutory Business Trusts (the "Trusts"). The Trusts were initially capitalized by the Company and the proceeds of both the common stock and Capital Securities were used to acquire Junior Subordinated Debt issued by the Company. The Capital Securities are obligations of the Trusts. The Junior Subordinated Debt and Capital Securities bear the same interest rates, are due concurrently and are non-callable at any time in whole or in part for ten years from the date of issuance, except in certain limited circumstances. They may be redeemed annually thereafter, in whole or in part, at declining premiums to maturity. The costs associated with these issuances have been capitalized and are being amortized to maturity using the straight-line method.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The 9.10% Junior Subordinated Debt due June 2027 was assumed through a prior acquisition and includes a remaining fair value discount of $18.7 million, $29.7 million and $30.0 million at September 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, respectively, which reduced the effective cost of funds to 7.63% for the periods presented.
Pay floating swaps with a $245 million notional value previously designated as fair value hedges of the 8.70%, 8.00% and 8.17% Junior Subordinated Debt issuances were used to convert a corresponding amount of debt from their stated fixed rates to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR. As of March 31, 2006 it was determined that these swaps did not meet the stated requirements of the short-cut method of accounting as prescribed in SFAS No. 133 and accordingly were reclassified as trading instruments and are more fully described in Note 9  Derivative Financial Instruments.
SENIOR NOTES:
 
The 3.20% Senior Notes due June 2008 were assumed through a prior acquisition and include a remaining fair value premium of $3.5 million, $5.1 million and $5.6 million at September 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, respectively, which increased the effective cost of funds to 3.84% for the periods presented.
Pay floating swaps with a $350 million notional value were previously designated as fair value hedges on the Senior Notes. These swaps were used to convert a corresponding amount of Notes from their stated fixed rates to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR. As of April 1, 2006, it was determined that these swaps did not meet the stated requirements of the short-cut method of accounting as prescribed in SFAS No. 133 and accordingly were reclassified as trading instruments and are more fully described in Note 9  Derivative Financial Instruments.
NOTE 7  MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS
The following table sets forth the change in the carrying value and fair value of mortgage servicing rights for the periods indicated:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The table below provides the significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of servicing assets for the periods indicated:
 
At September 30, 2006, the sensitivities to immediate 10% and 20% increases in the weighted average prepayment rates would decrease the fair value of mortgage servicing rights by $12.1 million and $22.8 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2006, the aggregate principal balance of mortgage loans serviced for others, excluding interim servicing was $28.0 billion.
NOTE 8  REPRESENTATION AND WARRANTY RESERVE
The representation and warranty reserve is available to cover probable losses inherent with the sale of loans in the secondary market. In the normal course of business, certain representations and warranties are made to investors at the time of sale, which permit the investor to return the loan to us or require us to indemnify the investor (make whole) for any losses incurred by the investor while the loan remains outstanding. The representation and warranty reserve is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
A summary of the changes in the representation and warranty reserve is shown below for the periods indicated:
 
NOTE 9  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The use of derivative financial instruments creates exposure to credit risk. This credit exposure relates to losses that would be recognized if the counterparties fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. To mitigate this exposure to non-performance, we deal only with counterparties of good credit standing and establish counterparty credit limits. In connection with our interest rate risk management process, we periodically enter into interest rate derivative contracts. These derivative interest rate contracts may include interest rate swaps, caps, and floors and are used to modify the repricing characteristics of specific assets and liabilities.
The following table details the current interest rate swaps and associated hedged liabilities outstanding as of September 30, 2006:
 
At September 30, 2006, $75 million in pay fixed swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, were outstanding. These agreements change the repricing characteristics of certain repurchase agreements, requiring us to make periodic fixed rate payments and receive periodic variable rate payments indexed to three-month LIBOR, based on a common notional amount, and identical payment and maturity dates. At September 30, 2006, these swaps had an unrealized loss of $1.1 million, which is recorded as a component of other liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet (the net of tax balance of $0.6 million is reflected in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss). The use of pay fixed swaps increased interest expense by $0.1 million and $0.5 million in the third quarters of 2006 and 2005, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, these swaps
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
increased interest expense by $0.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Based upon the current interest rate environment, approximately $0.4 million of the unrealized loss is expected to be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss in the next twelve months.
At September 30, 2006, $350 million of pay floating swaps, designated as fair value hedges, were used to convert the stated fixed rate on the 5.875% subordinated notes to variable rates indexed to three-month LIBOR. The swap term and payment dates match the related terms of the subordinated notes. At September 30, 2006, the fair value adjustment on these swaps resulted in a loss of $27.4 million and is reflected as a component of other liabilities. The carrying amount of the $350 million in subordinated notes was decreased by an identical amount. These swaps increased interest expense by approximately $1.6 million and $3.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, respectively. For the three and nine months, ended September 30, 2005, interest expense increased by $0.1 million and decreased by $1.3 million, respectively. There was no hedge ineffectiveness recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income on these transactions for all periods reported.
As part of our mortgage banking operations, we enter into commitments to originate and purchase loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is determined prior to funding ("interest rate lock commitment"). Interest rate lock commitments on mortgage loans that we intend to sell in the secondary market are considered free-standing derivatives. These derivatives are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as a component of gain on sale of loans. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105, "Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments", interest rate lock commitments are initially valued at zero. Changes in fair value subsequent to inception are determined based upon current secondary market prices for underlying loans with similar coupons, maturity and credit quality, subject to the anticipated probability that the loan will fund within the terms of the commitment. The initial value inherent in the loan commitments at origination is recognized through gain on sale of loans when the underlying loan is sold. Both the interest rate lock commitments and the related hedging instruments are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value being recorded in current earnings in gain on sale of loans.
Generally, if interest rates increase, the value of our interest rate lock commitments and funded loans decrease and loan sale margins are adversely impacted. We hedge the risk of overall changes in fair value of loans held-for-sale and interest rate lock commitments generally by entering into mandatory commitments to deliver mortgage whole loans to various investors, selling forward contracts on mortgage backed securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and, to a lesser extent, by using futures and options to economically hedge the fair value of interest rate lock commitments. Under SFAS 133, certain of these positions qualify as fair value hedges against a portion of the funded loan portfolio held-for-sale and result in adjustments to the carrying value of designated loans through gain on sale based on fair value changes attributable to the hedged risk. The forward contracts, futures and options used to economically hedge the loan commitments are accounted for as non-designated hedges and naturally offset loan commitment mark-to-market gains and losses and are also recognized as a component of gain on sale.
The notional amount of all forward contracts was $2.9 billion at September 30, 2006. The forward contracts designated as fair value hedges associated with mortgage loans held-for-sale had a notional value of $2.2 billion at September 30, 2006. The notional amount of forward contracts used to manage the risk associated with interest rate lock commitments on mortgage loans was $726 million at September 30, 2006.
The following table shows hedge ineffectiveness on fair value hedges included in gain on sale of loans for the periods indicated:
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Trading Instruments
The following table details the interest rate swaps designated as trading instruments as of September 30, 2006:
 
During 2006, we performed a detailed review of our accounting treatment for all derivative transactions and determined that certain transactions did not meet the requirements of the "short-cut" method of accounting under SFAS No. 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". As a result, hedge accounting was not appropriate for the transactions contained in the above table since inception. Accordingly, they have been reclassified as trading instruments on the accompanying balance sheet. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, $9.7 million and $(11.4) million was recorded as a component of trading gains and (losses) on the accompanying statement of income, respectively. We believe that the interest rate swaps have and will continue to be effective economic hedges. There was no impact nor will there be any future impact on our cash flows resulting from this change.
In October 2006, we terminated the interest rate swap contracts listed in the above table at similar market values that existed at September 30, 2006.
NOTE 10  OTHER COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Credit Related Commitments
We offer traditional off-balance sheet financial products to meet the financing needs of our customers through both our retail banking and mortgage banking segments. They include commitments to extend credit, lines of credit and letters of credit. Funded commitments are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as loans.
Retail Banking
Our retail banking segment provides the following types of off-balance sheet financial products to customers:
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to customers in accordance with contractual provisions. These commitments usually have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require the payment of a fee. Total commitments outstanding do not necessarily represent future cash flow requirements, since many commitments expire without being funded.
Each customer's creditworthiness is evaluated prior to issuing these commitments and may require the customer to pledge certain collateral prior to the extension of credit. Collateral varies but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment, and income-producing properties. Fixed rate commitments are subject to interest rate risk, based on changes in prevailing rates during the commitment period. We are subject to credit risk in the event that the commitments are drawn upon and the customer is unable to repay the obligation.
Letters of credit are irrevocable commitments issued at the request of customers. They authorize the beneficiary to draw drafts for payment in accordance with the stated terms and conditions. Letters of credit substitute a bank's creditworthiness for that of the customer and are issued for a fee commensurate with the risk.
We typically issue two types of letters of credit: Commercial (documentary) Letters of Credit and Standby Letters of Credit. Commercial Letters of Credit are commonly issued to finance the purchase of goods and are typically short term in nature. Standby letters of credit are issued to back financial or performance obligations of a bank customer, and are typically issued for periods up to one year. Due to their long-term nature, standby letters of credit require adequate collateral in the form of cash or other liquid assets. In most instances, standby letters of credit expire without being drawn upon. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as extending credit facilities to comparable customers.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The following table presents total commitments and letters of credit outstanding for our retail banking segment at September 30, 2006:
 
Mortgage Banking
At September 30, 2006, the pipeline of residential mortgage loans (including Home Equity Lines of Credit) was $6.0 billion and included $1.8 billion of fixed rate loans and $4.2 billion of adjustable rate loans. The pipeline represents total applications received but not yet funded.
We are also contractually committed to fund the undrawn portion of Home Equity Lines of Credit (HELOCs), which were previously originated. This commitment extends to both HELOCs held-for-sale and those previously sold with servicing retained.
The following table presents commitments to extend credit on loans available-for-sale at September 30, 2006:
 
NOTE 11  RETIREMENT AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
The components of net periodic benefit costs for pension and post-retirement benefits are as follows:
 
We do not anticipate making a contribution to either pension or post-retirement benefit plans in 2006.
Bank Owned Life Insurance
We maintain three Bank Owned Life Insurance Trusts (commonly referred to as BOLI) on the consolidated balance sheet. The BOLI trusts were formed to offset future employee benefit costs and to provide additional benefits due to their tax exempt nature. Only officer level employees, who have consented, have been insured under the program.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
The underlying structure of the initial BOLI trust formed, requires that the assets supporting the insurance policies be reported on the consolidated balance sheet, principally as a component of the available-for-sale securities portfolio and the related income to be characterized as either interest income or gain/(loss) on sale of securities. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, $253.4 million and $215.9 million, respectively were held by the trust and are principally included in the available-for-sale securities portfolio. Based on the underlying structures of the other two BOLI trusts, the cash surrender values ("CSV") of the life insurance policies held by the trusts are required to be classified as other assets on the consolidated balance sheet and the related income/(loss) be characterized as other income. The cash surrender value of the policies held by these trusts were $216.9 million and $207.4 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
NOTE 12  BUSINESS SEGMENTS
The retail banking business provides a full range of banking products and services through more than 350 branches located throughout the New York Metropolitan area. The mortgage banking segment originates, sells and services a wide variety of mortgages secured by 1-4 family residences and small commercial properties, on a nationwide basis.
The segment information presented in the table below is prepared in accordance with the following methodologies:
 
 
 
The following tables provide a reasonable representation of each segment's contribution to consolidated net income for the three months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
The following tables provide a reasonable representation of each segment's contribution to consolidated net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
 
The components of mortgage banking income for the periods indicated are as follows:
 
NOTE 13  RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post-retirement Plans
In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158, Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post-retirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) ("SFAS 158"). For defined benefit post-retirement plans, SFAS 158 requires that the funded status be recognized in the statement of financial position, that assets and obligations that determine funded status be measured as of the end of the employer's fiscal year, and that changes in funded status be recognized in comprehensive income in the year the changes occur. SFAS 158 does not change the amount of net periodic benefit cost included in net income or address measurement issues related to defined benefit post-retirement plans. The requirement to recognize funded status is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. The requirement to measure assets and obligations as of the end of the employer's fiscal year is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The unrecognized components of defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical plans will be recorded on the balance sheet at December 31, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 158 is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company.
 
North Fork Bancorporation, Inc.
 
Accounting for Fair Value Measurements
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("SFAS 157"). This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 157 is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48") which attempts to set out a consistent framework for preparers to use to determine the appropriate level of tax reserves to maintain for "uncertain tax positions." This interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 uses a two-step approach wherein a tax benefit is recognized if a position is more likely than not to be sustained. The amount of the benefit is then measured to be the highest tax benefit which is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized. FIN 48 also sets out disclosure requirements to enhance transparency of a Company's tax reserves. FIN 48 is effective January 1, 2007. We are currently assessing the financial statement impact of implementing FIN 48.
Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets
In March 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 156 ("SFAS 156"), Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. SFAS 156 requires all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities be initially measured at fair value, if practicable, and permits for subsequent measurement using either fair value measurement with changes in fair value reflected in earnings or the amortization and impairment requirements of Statement No. 140. The subsequent measurement of separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities at fair value eliminates the necessity for entities that manage the risks inherent in servicing assets and servicing liabilities with derivatives to qualify for hedge accounting treatment and eliminates the characterization of declines in fair value as impairments or direct write-downs. SFAS 156 is effective for the fiscal year beginning after September 15, 2006. We are currently assessing the financial statement impact of implementing SFAS156.
Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments
In February 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments-an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140, ("SFAS 155"). SFAS 155 amends FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, ("SFAS 133") and SFAS 140 . SFAS 155 resolves issues addressed in SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, "Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets." SFAS 155 permits fair value re-measurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation, clarifies which interest-only and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133, establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation, clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives, and amends SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities ("SFAS 140") to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special-purpose entity from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 155 is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company.
 

Exhibit 99.3
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined financial statements of Capital One, Hibernia and North Fork may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined at the beginning of the periods presented. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information shows the impact of the North Fork merger on the combined balance sheets and the Hibernia merger and North Fork merger on the combined statements of income under the purchase method of accounting with Capital One treated as the acquiror. Under this method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of Hibernia and North Fork are recorded by Capital One at their estimated fair values as of the date the respective mergers are completed. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2006 assumes the North Fork merger was completed on that date. The Hibernia merger was completed on November 16, 2005, and as such the actual fair values of the Hibernia assets and liabilities are reflected in the Capital One September 30, 2006 balance sheet. The preliminary unaudited pro forma income statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 were prepared assuming the North Fork and Hibernia mergers were completed on January 1, 2005.
It is anticipated that the Hibernia and North Fork mergers will provide Capital One with financial benefits such as possible expense efficiencies and revenue enhancements, among other factors, although no assurances can be given that such benefits will actually be achieved. These benefits have not been reflected in the preliminary unaudited pro forma financial information. As required, the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes adjustments which give effect to events that are directly attributable to the transaction and factually supportable; as such, any planned adjustments affecting the balance sheet, income statement, or shares of common stock outstanding subsequent to the assumed merger completion date are not included. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of each period presented. Note that Hibernia's historical results for 2005 reflect significant one-time negative impacts resulting from the Gulf Coast Hurricanes; 2005 results may not be indicative of future results. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the allocation of the purchase price reflected in the preliminary pro forma condensed combined financial information is subject to adjustment. The preliminary purchase price allocation for the North Fork merger will vary from the actual purchase price allocation that will be recorded upon the completion of the merger based upon changes in the estimated fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired from North Fork. In addition, subsequent to the merger completion dates, there may be further refinements of the purchase price allocation as additional information becomes available.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes of Capital One and North Fork, which are incorporated into this document by reference.
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2006, combines the September 30, 2006 historical balance sheets of Capital One (which reflects completion of the Hibernia merger) and North Fork assuming the companies had been combined on September 30, 2006, on a purchase accounting basis.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Balance Sheets
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, combines the historical income statements of Capital One and North Fork assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2005, on a purchase accounting basis.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Income
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement for the year ended December 31, 2005, combines the historical income statements of Capital One, Hibernia, and North Fork assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2005, on a purchase accounting basis.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Income
 
Note 1  Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the merger is included as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005. The historical financial statements of North Fork and Hibernia have been adjusted to reflect reporting reclassifications necessary to conform to the presentation of the historical financial statements of Capital One. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the application of GAAP as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005. The adoption of new or changes to existing GAAP subsequent to the pro forma financial statement dates may result in changes to the presentation of the preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, if material. No pro forma adjustment to the carrying value of loans or allowances have been recorded in accordance with the Statement of Position 03-3, Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer, reflecting the insignificant level of North Fork Non-performing assets for the periods presented.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes estimated adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of North Fork at their respective fair values based on management's best estimate using the information available at this time and includes the actual adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of Hibernia at their respective fair values at November 16, 2005, the completion date of the Hibernia merger. The pro forma adjustments may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analysis is performed. The final allocation of the North Fork purchase price will be determined after the merger is completed and after the completion of a final analysis to determine the fair values of North Fork's tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of the closing date. The final purchase price accounting adjustments may differ materially from the pro forma adjustments presented in this document. Increases or decreases in fair value of certain balance sheet amounts and other items of North Fork as compared to the information presented in this document may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in yield and/or amortization of adjusted assets and liabilities.
The pro forma basic and diluted potential common shares were calculated using the actual weighted-average shares outstanding for the Company for the periods presented, plus the incremental shares issued or expected to be issued and the dilutive impact of stock options granted or expected to be granted in connection with the Hibernia and North Fork acquisitions, assuming the transactions occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the mergers been completed at the beginning of the applicable periods presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
North Fork Acquisition
On December 1, 2006, Capital One acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of North Fork, a bank holding company with more than 350 retail bank branches in the New York metropolitan area and a nationwide mortgage business.
The preliminary pro forma adjustments include purchase price adjustments based on the conversion of each share of North Fork common stock into $28.144 in cash or 0.3692 of a share of Capital One common stock, which is the cash or fraction of a share of Capital One common stock that North Fork stockholders who receive cash or stock, respectively, received in the merger for each share of North Fork common stock. The average of the closing prices of Capital One common stock on the NYSE for the five trading days ending the day before the completion of the merger was $76.238. The total consideration of $13.2 billion includes the value of outstanding stock options and will be paid with the issuance of
approximately 104.0 million shares of Capital One's common stock and approximately $5.2 billion in cash consideration. Upon completion of the merger, outstanding options and other equity-based awards of North Fork were exchanged for options and other equity-based awards of Capital One with the number of options, other equity-based awards and option price adjusted for the exchange ratio.
The merger will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and accordingly, the assets acquired (including identifiable intangible assets and goodwill) and liabilities assumed of North Fork will be recognized at fair value on the date the transaction is completed. The merger will qualify as a tax-free reorganization for federal income tax purposes.
Hibernia Acquisition
On November 16, 2005, Capital One acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of Hibernia, a financial holding company with operations in Louisiana and Texas. Hibernia offers a variety of banking products and services, including consumer, commercial and small business loans and demand and term deposit accounts.
The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, and, as such, the assets and liabilities of Hibernia were recorded at their respective fair values as of November 16, 2005. The results of Hibernia's operations were included in Capital One's consolidated statement of income commencing November 16, 2005. The merger qualified as a tax-free reorganization for federal income tax purposes.
The total consideration of $5.0 billion, which included the value of outstanding stock options, was settled through the issuance of 32.9 million shares of Capital One's common stock and payment of $2.2 billion in cash. Under the terms of the transaction, each share of Hibernia common stock was exchanged for $30.46 in cash or 0.3792 shares of Capital One's common stock or a combination of common stock and cash based on the aforementioned conversion rates, based on the average of the closing prices on the NYSE of Capital One's common stock during the five trading days ending the day before the completion of the merger, which was $80.32.
Note 2  Preliminary Pro Forma Adjustments
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the merger includes the preliminary pro forma balance sheet as of September 30, 2006, assuming the merger with North Fork was completed on September 30, 2006. The preliminary pro forma income statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 were prepared assuming the mergers with North Fork and Hibernia were completed on January 1, 2005.
North Fork Acquisition Pro Forma Adjustments
The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the issuance of approximately 104.0 million shares of Capital One common stock and approximately $5.2 billion in cash consideration. Common stock issued in conjunction with this transaction was valued using the exchange ratio noted above in Note 1  .
Basis of Preliminary Pro Forma Presentation
A reconciliation of the excess consideration paid by Capital One over North Fork's net assets acquired ("goodwill") is as follows:
 
Hibernia Acquisition Pro Forma Adjustments
The following explanations refer to the pro forma income statement adjustment for the period January 1, 2005 to November 15, 2005, the completion date of the Hibernia merger.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3  North Fork Merger Related Costs
Certain merger related costs are estimated at $180.0 million. These estimated merger related costs will be incurred by Capital One and either treated as an acquisition liability capitalized or expensed as incurred based on the nature of cost and Capital One's accounting policies for these costs. Given the preliminary stages of integration discussions, the accounting for these estimated merger related costs in accordance with EITF 95-3 has not been determined and as such these costs have not been included in the preliminary pro-forma condensed combined balance sheet or income statements.
A summary of these costs, based on Capital One's preliminary estimates, is listed below:
Merger related compensation and severance costs include employee severance, compensation arrangements and related employee benefit expenses. Facilities and system costs include costs associated with the rebranding of branch offices. Also reflected are certain technology conversion costs. Refinements to the foregoing estimates may occur subsequent to the completion of the merger.
Note 4  North Fork Core Deposit Intangibles
The purchase accounting adjustments include the establishment of core deposit intangibles of $1.1 billion as of September 30, 2006. The adjustments include the elimination of $87.5 million relating to the North Fork's core deposit intangibles as of September 30, 2006. The $1.1 billion was based on a preliminary valuation by an independent third party using a combination of North Fork specific deposit information and industry specific benchmarks. A final analysis and valuation of the core deposit intangibles will be performed with the assistance of the independent third party upon completion of the merger. The amortization of the core deposit intangibles resulting from the acquisition in the pro forma statement of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2005 was assumed to be over a 10-year period using an accelerated amortization method.
The following table summarizes the amortization of the core deposit intangibles made in connection with the acquisition at an effective annual tax rate of 35.0%:
 


