FILE:COF/COF-8K-20070227172142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Approval of 2007 Base Salary, Bonus and Long Term Incentive Awards
On February 21, 2007, the Independent Members of the Board of Directors of Capital One (the "Company") and the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee"), in a joint meeting, approved a number of compensation related items for its named executive officers (the "Named Executive Officers") as detailed below. These items exclude the Chief Executive Officer, whose 2007 compensation was approved on December 11, 2006 and disclosed in a Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on December 14, 2006.
The compensation structure for the Named Executive Officers includes Base Salary, Annual Bonus and Long-Term Incentive Awards. Increases in 2007 total target compensation for the Named Executive Officers, subject to actual company and individual performance over the course of the year, ranged from 3% to 13% relative to 2006 targets. Individual increases were based on performance, role scope, market compensation trends, and other relevant factors.
The Independent Members of the Board and the Compensation Committee approved base salary increases, reflecting the Board's desire to adjust salaries to align with market pay levels.
Base Salary:
The Independent Members of the Board and the Compensation Committee approved performance metrics for 2007 Annual Bonus awards. Bonus payments are based on both company and individual performance, with greater emphasis on company performance for Named Executive Officers. Company performance will be measured based on Capital One's earnings per share growth relative to its Annual Operating Plan. Each executive's target bonus opportunity is established based on individual factors such as role scope and market compensation trends. Awards for the Company performance component may range from 0% to 200% of the target amount, while awards for the individual performance component may range from 0% to 150%of the target amount.
Annual Bonus:
The 2007 annual bonus payments will be based on performance for the year ending December 31, 2007. At present, it is expected that 2007 annual bonus payments to the Company's Named Executive Officers will be made in March 2008.
The Independent Members of the Board and the Compensation Committeeapproved targets for the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Awards. The Independent Members of the Board and the Compensation Committee also approved the mix of vehicles for the delivery of long-term incentive awards to Named Executive Officers. The value of awards will be delivered 55% through nonqualified stock options and 45% through restricted stock. The target amounts include certain financial metrics for restricted stock awards based on Capital One's earnings per share growth relative to its Annual Operating Plan. Payouts on long-term incentive awards may range from 0% to 125% of the target amount, depending on Company and individual performance for 2007.
Long-Term Incentive Awards:
The 2007 Long-Term Incentive Awards will be made based on performance for the year ending December 31, 2007. At present, it is expected that 2007 Long-Term Incentive Awards to the Company's Named Executive Officers will be granted in March 2008.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


