FILE:COF/COF-8K-20071018172344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 18, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, Third Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on October 18, 2007, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through December 31, 2007.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 20, 2007, the Company announced that it would cease residential mortgage origination operations of its wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint Mortgage. The results of the residential mortgage origination operations are reported as discontinued operations and excluded from the segment results presented. The results of GreenPoint's Mortgage Servicing Business are reported as continuing operations for each period presented and included in Local Banking results for 2007 and in Other for Q4 2006.
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2007
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 18, 2007
 
 Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced a net loss for the third quarter of 2007 of $81.6 million, or $0.21 per share (diluted). Earnings were $2.09 per share (diluted) excluding the loss from discontinued operations of $898.0 million related to the shutdown of GreenPoint Mortgage announced in August 2007. This compares to net income of $587.8 million, or $1.89 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2006, and income from continuing operations of $767.6 million, or $1.93 per share (diluted), for the second quarter of 2007. Additionally, the Company continues to expect earnings for 2007 of approximately $5.00 per share (diluted).
McLean, Va. (Oct. 18, 2007)
"Capital One remains focused on driving revenue growth, reducing costs, and effectively deploying capital to generate strong returns for our investors," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our businesses are generating robust revenue margins, even as we continue to take a cautious approach to underwriting and managing credit risk in the current environment."
Highlights of the quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 2
 
"Earnings from continuing operations in the third quarter grew 6.4 percent over the second quarter of 2007 driven by increased revenues which more than offset increased credit costs in the quarter," said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "We also realized significant operating leverage. Continued cost discipline and capital management will be two key drivers of future shareholder returns."
Total Company Results
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Results
Local Banking Segment highlights relative to Q2 2007
 
 
Capital One Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 3
 
 
National Lending Segment
Following are highlights from the National Lending Segment, followed by highlights from each of the sub-segments of National Lending: U.S. Card, Global Financial Services (GFS), and Auto Finance. Mortgage Finance information is now included in Discontinued Operations.
 
 
U.S. Card highlights relative to Q3 2006
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 4
 
 
Global Financial Services (GFS) highlights relative to Q3 2006
 
 
 
Auto Finance highlights relative to Q3 2006
 
 
 
 
Capital One Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 5
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and in its Form 8-K dated October 18, 2007 for 2007 earnings, loan and deposit growth, revenue growth, return on equity, projected charge-offs for the fourth quarter of 2007 and for 2008, credit trends, dividends, operating efficiencies and ongoing cost reductions, including future financial and operating results, and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: the risk that the company's acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully and that the cost savings and other synergies from such acquisitions may not be fully realized; continued intense competition from numerous providers of products and services which compete with Capital One's businesses; changes in our aggregate accounts and balances, and the growth rate and composition thereof; the risk that the benefits of the company's restructuring initiative, including cost savings and other benefits, may not be fully realized; the success of the company's marketing efforts; general economic conditions affecting interest rates and consumer income, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity; changes in the labor market; general secondary market conditions in the mortgage industry; changes in the credit environment in the U.S. and or the UK; and the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in Capital One's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Capital One's report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007.
About Capital One
Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company, with 732 locations in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Texas and Louisiana. Its principal subsidiaries, Capital One Bank, Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., and Capital
Capital One Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 6
 
One, N.A., offer a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Capital One's subsidiaries collectively had $83.3 billion in deposits and $146.4 billion in managed loans outstanding as of September 30, 2007. Capital One, a Fortune 500 company, trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
NOTE: Third quarter 2007 financial results, SEC Filings, and first quarter earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.



