FILE:COF/COF-8K-20081016171424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On October 16, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, Third Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on October 16, 2008, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through December 31, 2008.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2008
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(1)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(2)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 16, 2008
Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced earnings for the third quarter of 2008 of $374.1 million, or $1.00 per share (diluted). Earnings from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2008 were $385.8 million, or $1.03 per share. In the third quarter of 2007, the company reported a net loss of $81.6 million, or $.21 per share (diluted), and earnings from continuing operations of $816.4 million, or $2.09 per share (diluted). Earnings per share from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2008 were down $1.06 from the year ago quarter, driven primarily by higher provision expense, and down $0.21 from the second quarter of 2008 with higher revenues and lower non-interest expense being offset by higher provision expense.
McLean, Va. (October 16, 2008) 
Earnings from continuing operations exclude the loss from discontinued operations related to the shutdown of GreenPoint Mortgage in August 2007.
HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
"Against the backdrop of increasing economic headwinds and unprecedented change in the financial services landscape, Capital One continues to deliver profits and generate capital, said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "But we are not complacent. Based on what we're seeing in the world around us, we are significantly increasing the intensity of our efforts to aggressively manage the company for the benefit of investors and customers through the current downturn."
Total Company Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Given the volatility and strains in the financial system and global economy, we are more committed than ever to supporting our business with a rock solid balance sheet through the recession" said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "Our capital ratios are comfortably above our targets and
,
 
our readily available liquidity is more than four times our debt refinancing needs for the next year, positioning us not only to navigate this storm but also to capitalize on financially attractive opportunities when they arise."
Segment Results
Local Banking Segment highlights
The Local Banking segment delivered solid and steady results in the third quarter. Higher revenues and lower provision expense drove the growth in profits relative to the second quarter of 2008. Deposits grew in the quarter and deposit pricing and margins improved. Charge-offs and non-performing loans increased modestly in the third quarter, consistent with the continuing deterioration in the economy. Despite these increases, the credit quality and trends in the Local Banking loan portfolio continue to outperform competitors nationally and in the banking footprint. The company expects loans to remain basically flat for the remainder of 2008, while it expects further growth in deposits.
National Lending Segment
The National Lending segment contains the results of the company's U.S. Card, Auto Finance and International lending businesses.
 
U.S. Card highlights
U.S. Card results in the third quarter reflect the company's continued actions to navigate ongoing economic and cyclical headwinds. The business remains cautious on loan growth and continues to focus its marketing and originations on the parts of the U.S. Card market that the company believes provide the best combination of risk-adjusted returns and losses. Credit performance in the quarter was largely in line with expectations. The U.S. Card business remains well positioned to successfully navigate near-term challenges and to deliver solid results through the economic cycle.
Auto Finance highlights
Auto Finance results in the quarter were driven by solid and stable revenue margin and operating efficiency, as well as a lower provision for loan losses as the overall portfolio continues to shrink as a result of the aggressive steps taken by the business to retrench and reposition the business at the beginning of 2008. Credit metrics in the short term will continue to be impacted by seasonality, the seasoning of earlier vintages and broader cyclical economic challenges.
 
International highlights
The International businesses posted $12.1 million in net income in the third quarter, a decline from both the second quarter of 2008 and the prior year quarter. The main driver of the decline in profitability was an increase in allowance in light of growing economic weakness in the UK. The company remains cautious on the UK business and continues to shrink the portfolio. The Canadian credit card business continues to perform well, with stable credit performance and solid returns.
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and in its Form 8-K dated October 16, 2008, for loan and deposit growth, the projected charge-off rate in the U.S. Card subsegment for the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, estimated loss levels for the 12 months ending September 30, 2009 underlying the provision expense in the third quarter of 2008, credit performance and trends, operating expense and operating efficiency ratios for the full year 2008, dividends, including future financial and operating results, and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: general economic conditions in the U.S., the UK, or the company's local
 
markets, including conditions affecting interest rates and consumer income and confidence, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity; changes in the labor and employment market; changes in the credit environment; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; competition from providers of products and services that compete with the company's businesses; increases or decreases in the company's aggregate accounts and balances, or the growth rate and/or composition thereof; the risk that the benefits of the company's cost savings initiative may not be fully realized; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or the company with respect to practices, products or financial condition; financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including with respect to any litigation matter involving the company; and the success of the company's marketing efforts in attracting or retaining customers. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the company's reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008, and report on Form 8-K filed September 24, 2008.
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries collectively had $98.9 billion in deposits and $147.3 billion in managed loans outstanding as of September 30, 2008. Headquartered in McLean, VA, Capital One has 739 locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, and Louisiana. It is a diversified bank whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One, N.A. and Capital One Bank (USA), N. A., offer a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
NOTE: Third quarter 2008 financial results, SEC Filings, and second quarter earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a podcast and webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.
 



