FILE:COF/COF-8K-20081103170912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 30, 2008, the Board of Directors of Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Company") approved certain amendments to the Company's Bylaws, effective October 30, 2008.
The following description of the amendments does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Bylaws, as amended, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1.1. Delaware Office. The principal office of Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Wilmington, Delaware.
Section 1.2. Other Offices. The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Section 1.3. Books and Records. The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's headquarters in McLean, Virginia or at such other locations outside the State of Delaware as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Section 2.1. Annual Meeting. The annual meetings of stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, and at such time and date as the Board of Directors, by resolution, shall determine and as set forth in the notice of the meeting. If the Board of Directors fails so to determine the time, date and place of meeting, the annual meeting of stockholders shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation on the first Tuesday in May. If the date of the annual meeting shall fall upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day. At each annual meeting, the stockholders entitled to vote shall elect a Board of Directors and they may transact such other corporate business as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting.
Section 2.2. Special Meeting. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation (the "Preferred Stock") to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
Section 2.3. Place of Meeting. The Board of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders. If no designation is made by the Board of Directors, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
Section 2.4. Notice of Meeting. Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be prepared and delivered by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, either personally, or by mail, or otherwise sent electronically as permitted by law, including via electronic mail or the Internet to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. If sent electronically, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when sent in compliance with law and upon the stockholders' instructions given to the Corporation or its representative. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
Section 2.5. Quorum and Adjournment. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business. The chairman of the meeting or a majority of the shares of Voting Stock so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or, in the case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, the chairman or a majority of the shares of such class or series so represented may adjourn the meeting with respect to such specified business). No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Section 2.6. Proxies. At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing by the stockholder or as may be permitted by law, or by his duly authorized attorney-in-fact. Such proxy must be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or his representative at or before the time of the meeting.
 
Section 2.7. Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.8. Procedure for Election of Directors. Election of directors at all meetings of stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by written ballot, and, except as otherwise set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, each director shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast with respect to such director's election in elections of directors in which the number of nominees is equal to the number of positions available; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has or expects to nominate a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements set forth in Section 2.7(A) of this Bylaw, and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the business day next preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. If directors are to be elected by a plurality vote, stockholders shall be provided with the option to withhold votes with respect to a nominee in lieu of the option to cast a vote against such nominee. The Board of Directors shall establish such procedures as it deems appropriate and advisable for the submission and consideration of resignations from the Board by incumbent directors who do not receive a majority of the votes cast for such director at any meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected and the number of nominees is equal to the number of positions available. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, all matters submitted to the stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by a majority of the votes cast with respect thereto.
 
Section 2.9. Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls.
(A) The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(B) The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Section 2.10. No Stockholder Action by Written Consent. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specific circumstances, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be affected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
Section 3.1. General Powers. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 3.2. Number, Tenure and Qualifications. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board but shall consist of not more than seventeen nor less than three directors. The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, shall be divided, with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the 1995 annual meeting
 
of stockholders, the term of office of the second class to expire at the 1996 annual meeting of stockholders and the term of office of the third class to expire at the 1997 annual meeting of stockholders. Each director shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders, commencing with the 1996 annual meeting, (i) directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election, with each director to hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, and (ii) if authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors, directors may be elected to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, regardless of how such vacancy shall have been created. In order to be qualified to serve as a director, a person must (a) not have attained the age of seventy (70) years and (b) either (i) be an officer or employee of the Corporation and not (A) have voluntarily resigned from the position or office he held at the time of his election as a director, (B) have retired or been retired pursuant to the requirements of a pension, profit sharing, or similar plan or (C) have, at the time of his election as a director, held a position or office in the Corporation which has been changed, other than by an upward or expanded promotion or (ii) in the case of any person who is not an officer or employee of the Corporation, not (A) have retired from or severed his connection with the organization with which he was affiliated at the time of his election as a director or (B) have held a position or office with an organization with which he was affiliated at the time of his election as a director which has been changed, other than by an upward or expanded promotion and (C) not have a material conflict of interest with the Corporation (i) as defined by applicable laws and regulations and (ii) the existence and materiality of which as may be determined by a majority of the remaining directors. Whenever any director shall cease to be qualified to serve as a director his term shall expire, but such director shall continue to serve until his successor is elected and qualified; provided, however, that no director's term shall so expire if the Board of Directors shall have waived such qualification.
Section 3.3. Regular Meetings. A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, each annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
Section 3.4. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
Section 3.5. Notice. Notice of any special meeting shall be given to each director at his business or residence in writing or by telegram or by telephone communication. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five days before such meeting. If by telegram, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company at least twenty-four hours before such meeting. If by facsimile transmission, such notice shall be transmitted at least twenty-four hours before such meeting. If by telephone, the notice shall be given
 
at least twelve hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws as provided under Section 7.1 of Article VII hereof. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in writing, either before or after such meeting.
Section 3.6. Quorum. A whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Section 3.7. Vacancies. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Section 3.8. Committees. The Board of Directors may from time to time, by resolution passed by a majority of the Whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more Directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, except as otherwise provided by law. Unless the resolution of the Board of Directors expressly so provides, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock. Any such committee may adopt rules governing the method of calling and time and place of holding its meetings. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, a majority of any such committee may adopt rules governing the method of calling and time and place of holding its meetings. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, a majority of any such committee (or the member thereof, if only one) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the vote of a majority of the members of such committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee. Each such committee shall keep a record of its acts and proceedings and shall report thereon to the Board of Directors whenever
 
requested so to do. Any or all members of any such committee may be removed, with or without cause, by resolution of the Board of Directors, passed by a majority of the Whole Board.
Section 3.9. Removal. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.
Section 4.1. Elected Officers. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from the directors. All officers chosen by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this Article IV. Such officers shall also have powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof.
Section 4.2. Election and Term of Office. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Subject to Section 4.7 of these Bylaws, each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign.
Section 4.3. Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him by the Board of Directors. Except where by law the signature of the President is required, the Chairman of the Board shall possess the same power as the President to sign all certificates, contracts, and other instruments of the Corporation which may be authorized by the Board of Directors. He shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the stockholders, and shall perform all such other duties as are properly required of him by the Board of Directors. He shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect.
Section 4.4. President. The President shall act in a general executive capacity and shall assist the Chairman of the Board in the administration and operation of the Corporation's business and general supervision of its policies and affairs. The President
 
shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may sign, alone or with the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, or any other proper officer of the Corporation authorized by the Board of Directors, certificates, contracts, and other instruments of the Corporation as authorized by the Board of Directors.
Section 4.5. Secretary. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of stockholders and Directors and all other notices required by law or by these Bylaws, and in case of his absence or refusal or neglect so to do, any such notice may be given by any person thereunto directed by the Chairman of the Board or the President, or by the Board of Directors, upon whose request the meeting is called as provided in these Bylaws. The Secretary shall record all the proceedings of the meetings of the Board of Directors, any committees thereof and the stockholders of the Corporation in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President. The Secretary shall have the custody of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the same to all instruments requiring it, when authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President, and attest to the same.
Section 4.6. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate account of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements. The Treasurer shall render to the Chairman of the Board, the President and the Board of Directors, whenever requested, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
Section 4.7. Removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed by a majority of the members of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his successor, his death, his resignation or his removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or an employee plan.
Section 4.8. Vacancies. A newly created office and a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 5.1. Stock Certificates and Transfers.
(A) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe. The shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably required.
(B) The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 6.1. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 6.2 Dividends. The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by the law and its Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 6.3. Seal. The corporate seal of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced otherwise imprinted upon the subject document or paper.
Section 6.4. Waiver of Notice. Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or of the Board of Directors need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
 
Section 6.5. Audits. The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Board of Directors, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be made annually.
Section 6.6. Resignations. Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by serving written notice of such resignation on the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business of the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary or at such later date as is stated therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
Section 6.7. Indemnification and Insurance.
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of any other corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; , that except as provided in paragraph (B) of Section 6.7 of this Bylaw with respect to proceedings seeking to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
provided, however
(B) If a claim under paragraph (A) or (G) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within thirty days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the
 
required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(C) Following any "change in control" of the Corporation of the type required to be reported under Item 1 of Form 8-K promulgated under the Exchange Act, any determination as to entitlement to indemnification and advancement of expenses under this Bylaw shall be made by independent legal counsel selected by the claimant which independent legal counsel shall be retained by the Board of Directors on behalf of the Corporation.
(D) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
(E) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(F) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors, officers and employees of the Corporation.
(G) The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right vested upon service as a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or upon service at the request of the Corporation as referenced in paragraph (A), shall not expire regardless of whether such service has terminated. and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding or threatened proceeding in advance of its final disposition; , that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses
provided, however
 
incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, with limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
(H) Any amendment or repeal of this Article VI shall not in any way diminish or adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any current or former director, officer, employee or other person referenced in paragraph (A) or (G) of this Bylaw in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
Section 7.1. Amendments. These Bylaws may be amended, added to, rescinded or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given no less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting; , that, in the case of amendments by stockholders, notwithstanding any other provisions of these Bylaws or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no note, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class or series of the stock required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend or repeal any provision of these Bylaws.
provided, however
 


