FILE:COF/COF-8K-20081125162516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following document is filed with reference to the Registration Statement on Form S-3, No. 333-133943 (the "Registration Statement,") filed by Capital One Financial Corporation ("Capital One" or the "Company") with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
 
 
Capital One Financial Corporation
1680 Capital One Drive
McLean, Virginia 22102
 
Registration Statement on S-3 (Registration No. 333-133943)
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have examined: (i) the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-133943) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), on May 9, 2006 of Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Company") for the registration of the Company's debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock, purchase contracts and units; (ii) the core prospectus dated May 9, 2006 forming a part thereof, together with the documents incorporated therein by reference (the "Core Prospectus"); and (iii) the prospectus supplement dated November 25, 2008 (the "Prospectus Supplement"), in the form filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act on November 25, 2008 in connection with the offering by the Company of 7,500,000 shares (the "Shares") of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, pursuant to its Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan.
We have examined the originals, or photostatic or certified copies, of such records of the Company and certificates of officers of the Company and of public officials and such other documents as we have deemed relevant and necessary as the basis for the opinions set forth below. In our examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity and competency of all natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies.
Based upon the foregoing examination and in reliance thereon, and subject to the assumptions stated and in reliance on statements of fact contained in the documents that we have examined, we are of the opinion that the Shares, when issued against payment therefore, will be legally issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
We consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K, and we further consent to the use of our name under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Registration Statement and the prospectus that forms a part thereof. In giving these consents, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the Rules and Regulations of the Commission.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Capital One SM
Computershare
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
P.O. Box 43078 Providence Rhode Island 02940-3078 Within the US, Canada & Puerto Rico 888 985 2057 Outside the US, Canada & Puerto Rico 781 575 2725 www.computershare.com/investor
Name
Address
City, State, Zip Holder Account Number
Use a black pen. Print in
CAPITAL letters inside the grey A B C 1 2 3 X areas as shown in this example.
Dividend Reinvestment PlanEnrollment Form
Please refer to the plan prospectus or brochure before enrolling. (If you do not want to enroll in the plan and you want to receive all your dividends in cash you do not need to complete this form.) Check one box only. If you do not check any box, then FULL DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT will be assumed. If the plan permits, you may make optional cash investments at any time under each of the participation options below.
Full Dividend Reinvestment
Please mark this box if you wish to reinvest all dividends that become payable on this account, on all stock now held or any future holdings, including shares purchased with optional cash investments.
All Dividends Paid in Cash (No Dividend Reinvestment)
Please mark this box if you wish to receive dividend payments in cash on all stock now held or any future holdings, including shares purchased with optional cash investments.
Partial Dividends Paid in Cash
Please mark this box and specify the number of whole shares on which you wish to receive dividend payments in cash. The dividends on all remaining shares or any future holdings, including shares purchased with optional cash investments, will be reinvested.
Partial Share Amount
By participating in the plan, I agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of the prospectus or brochure that governs the plan. I have read and fully understand the terms and conditions of the prospectus or brochure. I further agree that my participation in the plan will continue until I notify Computershare in writing that I desire to terminate my participation in the plan. Upon providing such notification, I acknowledge that my withdrawal from the plan will be subject to the terms and conditions of the prospectus or brochure that governs the plan.
Enrollment forms will be processed within 5 business days of receipt. Confirmation of enrollment will not be mailed; however, a transaction statement will be mailed once there is activity in your account. If you would like to confirm your enrollment in the plan, please call us at the above referenced telephone number.
To be valid, this form must be signed by all registered shareholders. If you do not sign and return this form, you will continue to receive dividend payments in cash. Signature 1Please keep signature within the box. Signature 2Please keep signature within the box. Date (mm/dd/yyyy)
Daytime Telephone Number
Please return completed form to: Computershare PO Box 43078
Providence RI, 02940-3078
E 4 7 U E F C O F +
001CD40001 00H0ZB-WEB Please see important PRIVACY NOTICE on reverse side of statement
Direct Stock Purchase PlanEnrollment Form
Privacy Notice
At Computershare, we take privacy seriously. In the course of providing services to you in connection with employee stock purchase plans, dividend reinvestment plans, direct stock purchase plans and/or direct registration services, we receive nonpublic, personal information about you. We receive this information through transactions we perform for you, from enrollment forms, automatic debit forms, and through other communications with you in writing, electronically, and by telephone. We may also receive information about you by virtue of your transaction with affiliates of Computershare or other parties. This information may include your name, address (residential and mailing), social security number, bank account information, stock ownership information and other financial information.
With respect both to current and former customers, Computershare does not share nonpublic personal information with any non-affiliated third-party except as necessary to process a transaction, service your account or as required or permitted by law. Our affiliates and outside service providers with whom we share information are legally bound not to disclose the information in any manner, unless required or permitted by law or other governmental process. We strive to restrict access to your personal information to those employees who need to know the information to provide our services to you. Computershare maintains physical, electronic and procedural safeguards to protect your personal information.
Computershare realizes that you entrust us with confidential personal and financial information and we take that trust very seriously.
00H06A-WEB

Exhibit 99.2
 
This form is to be used by Participants in the Capital One Financial Corporation Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") who are requesting authorization from Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Company") to make optional cash investments under the Plan in excess of the permitted $10,000 monthly maximum.
A new form must be completed each time the Participant wishes to make an optional cash investment in excess of the $10,000 monthly maximum. The Company will not accept this form unless it is completed in its entirety.
The Participant submitting this form hereby certifies that (i) the information contained herein is true and correct as of the date of this form; (ii) the Participant has received a current copy of the Prospectus relating to the Plan; and (iii) the Participant will submit a copy of this Request for Waiver (approved by the Company) with payment for the approved optional cash investment amount to Computershare Trust Company, N.A., the Plan Administrator. If required, the Participant must also submit, at this time, an Enrollment Form to the Plan Administrator.
.
GOOD FUNDS ON ALL ACCEPTED REQUESTS FOR WAIVER MUST BE RECEIVED BY THE PLAN ADMINISTRATOR BEFORE THE CLOSE OF BUSINESS ON THE TRADING DAY PRIOR TO THE BEGINNING OF THE RELEVANT PRICING PERIOD IN ORDER FOR SUCH FUNDS TO BE INVESTED ON THE RELEVANT INVESTMENT DATE(S)
 
 
 
Manner of Payment: Check   Wire  
            
            
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Capital One SM
+
X
Computershare
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
P.O. Box 43078 Providence Rhode Island 02940-3078 Within the US, Canada & Puerto Rico 888 985 2057 Outside the US, Canada & Puerto Rico 781 575 2725 www.computershare.com/investor
Name Address City, State, Zip
Holder Account Number
Use a black pen. Print in CAPITAL letters inside the grey areas as shown in this example.
A B C 1 2 3
Dividend Reinvestment PlanDirect Debit AuthorizationMonthly
Funds will be withdrawn on the 15th of the month or next business day. $
This plan allows for a minimum amount of $50 with a maximum of $10,000 per month.
Financial Institution Information
Please select one.
Individual
A.
Joint
B.
Other Please select one.
Checking Account
Savings Account
Financial institution routing number
Note: DO NOT USE A CREDIT CARD. If you do not know your account number or the routing number, please see the reverse side of this form or check with your financial institution. Account numbers must be in numeric format.
Name(s) in which the above account is held
Note: If you are not currently enrolled in this company's Plan, by signing this form, you agree to the following: (1) to enroll in the Plan for full dividend reinvestment so that all of your dividends will be used to purchase additional shares (if available); (2) to be bound by the terms and conditions of the prospectus or brochure that governs the Plan; (3) that you have read and fully understand the terms and conditions of the prospectus or brochure; and (4) that you further agree that your participation in the Plan will continue until you notify Computershare in writing or by other available means that you desire to terminate participation in the Plan. Upon providing such notification, you acknowledge that withdrawal from the Plan will be subject to the terms and conditions of the prospectus or brochure that governs the Plan.
I/We hereby authorize Computershare to make monthly automatic transfers of funds from the above account in the amount shown. This deduction will be used to purchase shares to be deposited into my/our account.
All owners of the financial institution account must sign below.
Signature 1Please keep signature within the box. Signature 2Please keep signature within the box. Date (mm/dd/yyyy)
Daytime Telephone Number
Please return completed form to: Computershare P.O. Box 43078
Providence RI 02940-3078
E 5 U E M D C O F
00H3PB-WEB
+
How to complete this form
1. This company plan offers only monthly deductions. Check the box to confirm your agreement.
2. Amount of automatic deduction: Indicate the amount authorized to transfer from your account to purchase additional shares.
3. Indicate the type of account held with the financial institution.
4. Indicate checking or savings.
5. Print the complete financial institution account number.
6. Print the financial institution routing number from your check or savings deposit slip. If you are using a savings account, contact your financial institution for the routing number.
7. Print the name(s) in which the financial institution account is held.
8. All authorized owners of the financial institution account must sign this form.
SAMPLE CHECK
John A. Doe Name(s) in which Mary B. Doe account is held 123 Your Street
Anywhere , U.S.A. 12345
ORDER OF $
63-858 670
20
Financial institution and branch information
Bank of Anywhere 123 Main Street Anywhere, USA 12345 FOR
SAMPLE (NON-NEGOTIABLE)
A123456789A 12345678901234567C 12345
Routing number Account number Check number
00H3QA-WEB


