FILE:COF/COF-8K-20080109194437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, Monthly Charge-off and Delinquency Statistics December 2007, for the month ended December 31, 2007.
Information in this report (including the exhibit) furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Capital One Financial Corporation
Monthly Charge-off and Delinquency Statistics
As of and for the month ended December 31, 2007
Summary Metrics
 
Segment Metrics (Managed Basis)
 
 
Summary Metric Calculation Details
(dollars in thousands)
 
 
Segment Metric Calculation Details (Managed Basis)
(dollars in thousands)
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Measures
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and are referred to as our "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualify as sales under GAAP have been removed from our "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
Our "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. We generate earnings from our "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. Our "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason, we believe the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
Reportable Segments
We manage our business as two distinct operating segments: Local Banking and National Lending. The Local Banking and National Lending segments are considered reportable segments based on quantitative thresholds applied to the managed loan portfolio for reportable segments provided by SFAS No. 131, The National Lending segment consists of the following three sub-segments: US Card, Auto Finance and Global Financial Services.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.
As management makes decisions on a managed basis within each segment, information about reportable segments is provided on a managed basis.
 
Net Charge-Off Rate
Average Loans Outstanding used in the calculation of the Net Charge-Offs Rate includes an estimate of the uncollectible portion of finance charge and fee receivables. We recognize earned finance charges and fee income on open ended loans according to the contractual provisions of the credit arrangements. When we do not expect full payment of finance charges and fees, we do not accrue the estimated uncollectible portion as income. The estimated uncollectible portion of finance charges and fees is adjusted quarterly.
 


