FILE:COF/COF-8K-20080417170537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On April 17, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, First Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on April 17, 2008, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through June 30, 2008.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2008
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, VA 22102
Press Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 17, 2008
 
 Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced earnings for the first quarter of 2008 of $548.5 million, or $1.47 per share (diluted). Earnings from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2008 were $632.6 million, or $1.70 per share (diluted). In the first quarter of 2007, the company reported earnings of $675.0 million, or $1.62 per share (diluted), and earnings from continuing operations of $686.1 million, or $1.65 per share (diluted). Earnings from continuing operations exclude the loss from discontinued operations related to the shutdown of GreenPoint Mortgage.
McLean, Va. (April 17, 2008)
"In March, we completed a major milestone of our banking integration and launched the Capital One Bank brand in the New York region, marking the completion of our transformation into a diversified bank," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We're well positioned to navigate near-term cyclical challenges with resilient businesses, experience in managing through prior cyclical downturns, and a strong balance sheet. We're actively managing the company to protect our franchises and deliver shareholder returns."
Highlights of the quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
"A substantial increase in revenue margin coupled with expense reductions largely offset the adverse impact of higher credit costs," said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "Because of the strong capital generation of our businesses, we were able to significantly raise our dividend as planned, while building capital to the high end of our range."
Total Company Results
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Results
Local Banking Segment highlights
The Local Banking business posted modest loan and deposit growth while successfully completing a major platform integration in the quarter. Profits declined, mostly as a result of higher provision expense as the economy weakened. The successful integration of multiple systems, including the deposit platform, and the launch of the Capital One Bank brand in the New York area provide the foundations that will enable the Local Banking business to develop new growth strategies and continue the tradition of providing excellent customer service to banking customers across the franchise.
 
 
 
National Lending Segment
In the first quarter of 2008 the company reorganized its National Lending subsegments from U.S. Card, Auto Finance and Global Financial Services to U.S. Card and Other National Lending. The U.S. Card subsegment contains the results of the company's domestic credit card business, as well as small business lending and the installment loan business, which were previously in Global Financial Services. The Other National Lending subsegment contains the results of the company's auto finance business, and the company's international lending businesses, which were previously in Global Financial Services. Components of the Other National Lending subsegment are separately disclosed. Segment and subsegment results have been restated for all periods presented.
 
 
 
U.S. Card highlights
Strong revenue growth and continuing expense reductions partially offset increasing provision expense, resulting in solid profits in the face of cyclical economic headwinds. The U.S. Card business remains well positioned to navigate near-term challenges and continue its profitability through the economic cycle.
 
 
 
 
 
Auto Finance highlights
The Auto Finance business posted a net loss in the quarter as the company continued its significant pull back and repositioning of the business. The results of the Auto Finance business continue to be negatively impacted by both the current credit environment, and the company's credit outlook. Origination volumes were reduced significantly as a result of tightening credit policy and increased pricing. The company expects its actions to result in a substantially smaller but more stable Auto Finance business going forward.
 
 
 
 
International highlights
The Canadian credit card business continued to perform relatively well, with stable credit performance and solid returns. The company's credit performance has been stable to modestly improving for several quarters, reflecting a more stable UK credit environment. However, the company remains cautious about growth in the UK, given growing economic uncertainty in that market.
 
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and in its Form 8-K dated April 17, 2008 for 2008 revenue growth, loan and deposit growth, return on equity, the projected charge-off rate and revenue margin in the U.S. Card subsegment for 2008, estimated loss levels for the 12 months ending March 31, 2009 underlying its provision expenses in the first quarter of 2008, credit performance and trends, operating efficiencies, operating expense reductions, and dividends, including future financial and operating results, and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: general economic conditions affecting interest rates and consumer income, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity; changes in the labor and employment market; changes in the credit environment in the U.S. and/or the UK; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; the risk that the company's acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully and that the cost savings and other synergies from such acquisitions may not be fully realized; continued intense competition from numerous providers of products and services which compete with Capital One's businesses; changes in the company's aggregate accounts and balances, and the growth rate and composition thereof; the risk that the benefits of the company's restructuring initiative, including cost savings and other benefits, may not be fully realized; the success of the company's marketing efforts; and general secondary market conditions in the mortgage industry. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in Capital One's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Capital One's report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.
 
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries collectively had $87.7 billion in deposits and $148.0 billion in managed loans outstanding as of March 31, 2008. Headquartered in McLean, VA, Capital One has 745 locations in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Texas and Louisiana. It is a diversified financial services company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One, N.A., Capital One Bank (USA), N. A., and Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., offer a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
NOTE: First quarter 2008 financial results, SEC Filings, and first quarter earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a podcast and webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.



