FILE:COF/COF-8K-20080717170610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On July 17, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, Second Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on July 17, 2008, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through September 30, 2008.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2008
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
Press Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 17, 2008
 
Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE:COF) today announced earnings for the second quarter of 2008 were $452.9 million, or $1.21 per share (diluted). Earnings from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2008 were $462.5 million, or $1.24 per share. In the second quarter of 2007, the company reported earnings of $750.4 million, or $1.89 per share (diluted), and earnings from continuing operations of $767.6 million, or $1.93 per share (diluted). Earnings from continuing operations exclude the loss from discontinued operations related to the shutdown of GreenPoint Mortgage in August 2007.
McLean, Va. (July 17, 2008) 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Despite cyclical economic headwinds, the company continues to deliver profits and generate excess capital," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We remain well-positioned to navigate the near-term economic challenges and to deliver strong shareholder value through the cycle."
Capital One Reports Second Quarter Earnings
Page 2
 
Total Company Results
 
 
 
 
 
"During the quarter, we added to the considerable strength of our balance sheet by generating excess capital and increasing our already strong liquidity position" said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "Going forward, we will continue our 37.5 cent quarterly dividend while at the same time maintaining our TCE ratio above our long-term target range."
,
Segment Results
Local Banking Segment highlights
Results in the Local Banking segment remain solid, however, profits declined as the economy continued to weaken during the quarter. On a sequential quarter basis, loan and deposit growth were essentially flat. Rising provision expense in the current economic downturn is the largest factor in both the sequential quarter and year-over-year decline. The company expects loan growth to remain flat for the remainder of the year, but expects stronger deposit growth in the second half of the year.
 
Capital One Reports Second Quarter Earnings
Page 3
 
 
 
National Lending Segment
The U.S. Card subsegment contains the results of the company's domestic credit card business, as well as small business lending and the installment loan business. The Other National Lending subsegment contains the results of the company's auto finance business and the company's international lending businesses. Components of the Other National Lending subsegment are separately disclosed.
 
 
 
U.S. Card highlights
U.S. Card results in the second quarter reflect continued cyclical credit worsening and the company's actions to navigate the downturn. The business remains cautious on loan growth and continues to focus its marketing and originations on the parts of the U.S. Card market that the company believes provide the best combination of risk-adjusted returns and losses. The U.S. Card business remains well positioned to successfully navigate near-term challenges and to deliver solid results through the economic cycle.
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One Reports Second Quarter Earnings
Page 4
 
Auto Finance highlights
The Auto Finance subsegment return to profitability this quarter was driven by the seasonal improvement in charge-offs, solid revenue margins, and continuing reductions in operating costs. Beyond this second quarter, the significant cyclical economic challenges facing the auto finance industry continue to be the longer term driver of performance in the Auto Finance business.
 
 
 
 
 
 
International highlights
Continued strong performance in Canada offset trends in the UK, where the credit environment grew more challenging in the second quarter. Modestly lower revenue, combined with an increase in provision expense, pressured UK profits in the quarter. The Canadian credit card business continues to perform well, with stable credit performance and solid returns.
 
 
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and
Capital One Reports Second Quarter Earnings
Page 5
 
Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and in its Form 8-K dated July 17, 2008 for 2008 revenue growth, loan and deposit growth, return on equity, the projected charge-off rate and revenue margin in the U.S. Card subsegment for 2008, estimated loss levels for the 12 months ending June 30, 2009 underlying the provision expense in the second quarter of 2008, credit performance and trends, operating efficiencies, operating expense reductions, and dividends, including future financial and operating results, and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: general economic conditions in the U.S., the UK, or the company's local markets, including conditions affecting interest rates and consumer income and confidence, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity; changes in the labor and employment market; changes in the credit environment; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; competition from providers of products and services that compete with the company's businesses; increases or decreases in the company's aggregate accounts and balances, or the growth rate or composition thereof; the risk that the benefits of the company's cost savings initiative may not be fully realized; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or the company with respect to practices, products or financial condition; financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including with respect to any litigation matter involving the company; and the success of the company's marketing efforts in attracting or retaining customers. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the company's report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries collectively had $92.4 billion in deposits and $147.2 billion in managed loans outstanding as of June 30, 2008. Headquartered in McLean, VA, Capital One has 740 locations in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Texas, and Louisiana. It is a diversified financial services company whose principal subsidiaries, Capital One, N.A., Capital One Bank (USA), N. A., and Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., offer a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
Capital One Reports Second Quarter Earnings
Page 6
 
NOTE: Second quarter 2008 financial results, SEC Filings, and second quarter earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a podcast and webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.



