FILE:COF/COF-8K-20091015184849.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, Historical segment data  for the quarters ended September 30, 2008, December 31, 2008, March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009, for comparative purposes, reflecting the segment realignment executed in the third quarter of 2009.
Information in this report (including the exhibit) furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Capital One Financial Corporation
Historical segment data
For the quarters ended September 30, 2008, December 31, 2008, March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009
Segments
During the third quarter of 2009, the Company realigned its business segment reporting structure to better reflect the manner in which the performance of the Company's operations are evaluated. The Company now reports the results of its business through three operating segments: Credit Card, Commercial Banking, and Consumer Banking. The Company's new business segment reporting structure:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment and certain sub-segment results have been recasted for all periods presented. The three segments consist of the following:
 
 
 
The Company's three segments are considered reportable segments based on quantitative thresholds applied to the managed loan portfolio for reportable segments and are disclosed separately. The segment reorganization includes the allocation of Chevy Chase Bank to the appropriate segments. Chevy Chase Bank's operations are included in the Commercial Banking and Consumer Banking segments for the second quarter 2009. Chevy Chase Bank's operations for the first quarter of 2009 remain in the Other category. Chevy Chase Bank's operations are impacted by the Company's analysis of the fair values and purchase price allocation of Chevy Chase Bank's assets and liabilities. As of June 30, 2009, the Company had not finalized the analysis. Changes to the purchase price allocation could result in the Company recasting results of Chevy Chase Bank's operations. The Other category includes the Company's liquidity portfolio and various non-lending activities. The Other category also includes the results of GreenPoint's consumer mortgage held for investment portfolio, the GreenPoint home equity line of credit portfolio, the net impact of transfer pricing, certain unallocated expenses, gains/losses related to the securitization of assets, and restructuring charges related to the Company's cost initiative announced in the second quarter of 2007.
The Company maintains its books and records on a legal entity basis for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. The following tables presents information prepared from the Company's internal management information system, which is maintained on a line of business level through allocations from the consolidated financial results.
 
The following tables present certain information regarding our continuing operations by segment:
Credit Card
 
 
Commercial Banking
 
Consumer Banking
 
 
 
Other
 
 
Loan Disclosures
Period end loans held for investment (managed basis)
(1)
 
 
Net charge-offs (managed basis)
(1)
 
Notes
 
 
 


