FILE:COF/COF-8K-20091022172521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On October 22, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, Third Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on October 22, 2009, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through December 31, 2009.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2009
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which they originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The table below presents a reconciliation of tangible common equity and tangible assets, which are the components used to calculate the tangible common equity "TCE" ratio. The Company believes the TCE ratio is an important financial measure of capital strength to our investors and readers even though it is considered to be a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(1)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(2)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The segment reorganization includes the allocation of Chevy Chase Bank to the appropriate segments. Chevy Chase Bank's operations are included in the Commercial Banking and Consumer Banking segments beginning in the second quarter 2009. Chevy Chase Bank's operations for the first quarter of 2009 remain in the Other category. Chevy Chase Bank's operations are impacted by the Company's analysis of the fair values and purchase price allocation of Chevy Chase Bank's assets and liabilities. As of September 30, 2009, the Company has not finalized the analysis. Changes to the purchase price allocation could result in the Company recasting results of Chevy Chase Bank's operations.
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 22, 2009
Third Quarter Highlights
Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced net income for the third quarter of 2009 of $425.6 million, or $0.94 per common share (diluted), versus second quarter 2009 net income of $224.2 million, or $0.53 per common share (diluted), before taking into account the impact from the repayment of the government's TARP preferred share investment. In the third quarter of 2008, the company reported $374.1 million, or $1.00 per common share (diluted).
McLean, Va. (October 22, 2009) 
"We've worked for years to position our company to be resilient, and our third quarter results demonstrate that resiliency in the midst of the most challenging economic cycle we've seen in generations" said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We are successfully weathering the storm, but the storm is not over. Therefore, we will continue to take the decisive actions necessary to place our company in the best position to navigate the downturn and drive shareholder value over the cycle."
Total Company Results
 
11.6 percent, relative to the second quarter. Net interest income increased $298.3 million in the third quarter, or 10.1 percent, while non-interest income increased $183.7 million, or 15.4
Capital One  Third Quarter 2009 Results
Page 2
percent. The increase in revenue was driven primarily by higher yields in Domestic Card, lower funding costs, a sequential improvement in valuation adjustments to retained securitization interests, and opportunistic moves in the investment portfolio that resulted in gains from securities sales.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One  Third Quarter 2009 Results
Page 3
marketing and restructuring expenses. The managed efficiency ratio decreased to 38.36 percent in the third quarter of 2009 from 45.28 percent in the second quarter of 2009, driven largely by increasing revenue.
 
"Despite continued credit pressures, Capital One posted solid growth in both revenues and bottom-line profits in the third quarter," said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "Our strong balance sheet is supported by healthy reserve levels and a tangible common equity ratio that grew to 6.2 percent, which positions the company against downside risk while enabling future growth."
Segment Results
During the third quarter of 2009, the company realigned its business segment reporting structure to better reflect the manner in which the performance of the company's operations is evaluated. The company now reports the results of its business through three operating segments: Credit Card, Commercial Banking, and Consumer Banking.
Credit Card Highlights
For details on the sub-segments' results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
The Credit Card segment reported net income in the third quarter of $291.7 million, an increase of $119.1 million, or 69.0 percent, from second quarter net income $172.6 million. Improving revenue margin in the Domestic Credit Card sub-segment drove the improved profitability despite higher provision expense.
 
 
Capital One  Third Quarter 2009 Results
Page 4
revenue margin to remain above 16 percent in the fourth quarter. In 2010, the company expects Domestic Card quarterly revenue margin to moderate modestly, but remain close to its fourth quarter 2009 level.
 
 
 
 
Commercial Banking highlights
For more lending information and statistics on the segment results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
The Commercial Banking segment consists of commercial and multi-family real-estate, middle market lending, and specialty lending, which are summarized under Commercial Lending, and small ticket commercial real estate. The total segment reported a net loss of $130.2 million in the third quarter, down from a profit of $29.8 million in the prior quarter, driven by a $252.6 million increase in the loss provision relative to the second quarter. The provision expense increased primarily as a result
Capital One  Third Quarter 2009 Results
Page 5
of a large allowance build in anticipation of future credit losses. The two most important drivers of the allowance build were the significant decline in collateral values, particularly in the company's construction portfolio, and recognizing the effects of higher charge-offs.
 
 
 
 
 
Consumer Banking highlights
For more lending information and statistics on the segment's results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
Consumer Banking reported net income for the third quarter of $184.6 million. Revenue increased $56.5 million in the quarter, with improvements across the Consumer Banking segment. Provision expense declined $46.0 million, driven by an allowance release in the auto finance business. Non-interest expense declined $43.4 million.
 
Capital One  Third Quarter 2009 Results
Page 6
 
 
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and in its Form 8-K dated October 22, 2009, including those regarding Domestic Card revenue margin in the fourth quarter of 2009 and in 2010; and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: general economic conditions in the U.S., the UK, or the company's local markets, including conditions affecting consumer income, confidence, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs, deposit activity, and interest rates; changes in the labor and employment market; changes in the credit environment; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and
Capital One  Third Quarter 2009 Results
Page 7
operational plans; competition from providers of products and services that compete with the company's businesses; increases or decreases in the company's aggregate accounts and balances, or the growth rate and/or composition thereof; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or the company with respect to practices, products or financial condition; financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including with respect to any litigation matter involving the company; and the success of the company's marketing efforts in attracting or retaining customers. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the company's reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009.
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries, which include Capital One, N.A. and Capital One Bank (USA), N. A., had $114.5 billion in deposits and $209.7 billion in total managed assets outstanding as of September 30, 2009. Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One offers a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Capital One, N.A. has approximately 1,000 branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
NOTE: Third quarter 2009 financial results, SEC Filings, and earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a podcast and webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.



