FILE:COF/COF-8K-20090723171237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On July 23, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, Second Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on July 23, 2009, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through September 30, 2009.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2009
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which they originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The table below presents a reconciliation of tangible common equity and tangible assets, which are the components used to calculate the tangible common equity "TCE" ratio. The Company believes the TCE ratio is an important financial measure of capital strength to our investors and readers even though it is considered to be a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(1)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(2)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 23, 2009
Second Quarter Highlights
Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced net income for the second quarter of 2009 of $224.2 million, or $0.53 per common share (diluted) prior to the impact of the government's TARP preferred share investment. After including the $461.7 million impact of the June redemption of the preferred shares and the $38.0 million dividend payment on these shares in the quarter, Capital One posted a net loss available to common shareholders of $0.65 per common share (diluted).
McLean, Va. (July 23, 2009) 
"Second quarter results reflect the economic environment and our actions to decisively manage the company through the downturn for the benefit of our shareholders," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Despite turbulence in the marketplace, we believe that we remain well positioned to weather the storm, deliver
COF  Second Quarter 2009 Results
Page 2
shareholder value over the cycle, and achieve our vision of combining great local banking franchises with a high return credit card business."
Total Company Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
COF  Second Quarter 2009 Results
Page 3
FDIC special assessment, which is recorded in the "Other" segment, and from a full quarter of Chevy Chase Bank expenses.
 
"Our capital strength was evident in the quarter as we repaid the government's preferred share investment and increased our Tangible Common Equity ratio by 90 basis points to 5.7 percent," said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "In addition, the company's strong deposit franchise helped drive margin expansion through lower funding costs and will continue to serve as a cornerstone of our rock-solid balance sheet."
Segment Results
Local Banking Segment highlights
The Local Banking business posted a net loss of $0.2 million in the second quarter of 2009, an improvement of $36.0 million from the first quarter of 2009. (The results of Chevy Chase Bank are reported in the "Other" segment.) The revenue increase in the quarter resulted from favorable loan and deposit pricing, higher average deposit balances, and improving deposit mix. Increases in non-performing loans and charge-offs in the Commercial Lending portfolio were driven primarily by worsening in the Middle Market portfolio, while increases in the Consumer charge-offs and non-performing loans were attributed to falling home prices in the residential mortgage portfolio.
 
 
COF  Second Quarter 2009 Results
Page 4
 
 
 
 
National Lending Segment highlights
The National Lending segment contains the results of the company's U.S. Card, Auto Finance and International Lending businesses. For details on each of these subsegments' results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
National Lending reported a profit of $270.8 million in the second quarter, up from $75.9 million in the prior quarter, but down relative to $407.6 million in the year ago quarter. Each business within National Lending also reported a profit in the second quarter of 2009  U.S. Card delivered $168.4 million, the Auto Finance business reported $97.2 million, and International contributed $5.2 million.
Performance in the National Lending segment primarily reflects expected continued economic deterioration during the second quarter, although the pace of deterioration was partially offset by seasonal benefits and the company's ongoing efforts to aggressively manage credit risk.
 
COF  Second Quarter 2009 Results
Page 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the
COF  Second Quarter 2009 Results
Page 6
schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and in its Form 8-K dated July 23, 2009; and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: general economic conditions in the U.S., the UK, or the company's local markets, including conditions affecting consumer income, confidence, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs, deposit activity, and interest rates; changes in the labor and employment market; changes in the credit environment; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; competition from providers of products and services that compete with the company's businesses; increases or decreases in the company's aggregate accounts and balances, or the growth rate and/or composition thereof; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or the company with respect to practices, products or financial condition; financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including with respect to any litigation matter involving the company; and the success of the company's marketing efforts in attracting or retaining customers. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the company's reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries, which include Capital One, N.A., Capital One Bank (USA), N. A., and Chevy Chase F.S.B. collectively, had $116.7 billion in deposits and $146 billion in managed loans outstanding as of June 30, 2009. Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One offers a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Capital One, N.A. and Chevy Chase Bank, F.S.B. have approximately 1,000 branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
COF  Second Quarter 2009 Results
Page 7
NOTE: Second quarter 2009 financial results, SEC Filings, and earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a podcast and webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.



