FILE:COF/COF-8K-20090421172232.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, First Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on April 21, 2009, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through June 30, 2009.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2009
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(1)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(2)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 21, 2009
 
Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced a net loss for the first quarter of 2009 of $111.9 million, or $0.45 per common share (diluted), compared with a net loss of $1.4 billion, or $3.74 per common share (diluted), in the fourth quarter of 2008 and earnings of $548.5 million, or $1.47 per common share (diluted) in the first quarter of 2008. Net loss from continuing operations for the first quarter was $86.9 million, or $0.39 per common share (diluted).
McLean, Va. (Apr 21, 2009) 
"While our first quarter results reflected significant pressures from the worsening economy, our balance sheet remained a source of strength," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We continued to build our allowance, increase coverage ratios, and manage our capital levels well in excess of regulatory requirements.
While we remain cautious about near-term economic challenges, we are confident that our balance sheet provides the stability to weather the current economic crisis and the flexibility to generate value on the other side."
Total Company Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Deposits now comprise approximately two-thirds of our funding, providing a lower cost of funds while enabling us to support our lending without participating in any government-assisted funding program such as TLGP or TALF," said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "Our ample liquidity, coupled with solid capital ratios, provides a strong balance sheet foundation from which we can serve the needs of our consumer and commercial customers on Main Street."
Segment Results
Local Banking Segment highlights
The Local Banking business posted a net loss of $36.2 million in the quarter. Revenues declined as a result of falling interest rates and provision expense remained elevated in the current economic environment.
During the quarter, Local Banking focused on optimizing its deposit strategy. It maintained disciplined pricing and focused efforts on the deposit segments that drive the most profitable and enduring customer relationships. Managed loans in the quarter declined by 1.4 percent. Expected run off of residential mortgage loans more than offset growth in the middle market commercial franchise.
The increase in the non-performing loan percentage in the quarter resulted from continuing economic stress in the metro New York City market, and to a lesser degree, in Louisiana and Texas. Improvement in the Local Banking charge-off rate in the first quarter was driven by the fact that the company took several sizeable charge-offs related to specific loans in its construction portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as a reduction in residential mortgage foreclosures as it held off in anticipation of the announcement of the
 
administration's mortgage modification program. The company continues to review the administration's proposal.
 
National Lending Segment highlights
The National Lending segment contains the results of the company's U.S. Card, Auto Finance and International Lending businesses. For details on each of these subsegments' results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
All National Lending businesses reported profits in the first quarter of 2009  U.S. Card delivered $2.4 million, the Auto Finance business reported $71.4 million, and International contributed $2.0 million  for a total net income in the first quarter of $75.9 million.
Economic deterioration continued at a rapid pace during the first quarter, particularly in labor markets, driving increasing delinquency and charge-off rates across the company's lending businesses, with the exception of Auto Finance. The U.S. Card charge-off rate increased to 8.4 percent for the first quarter of 2009, above the 8.1 percent charge-off rate expectation articulated in the fourth quarter of 2008. Seasonal weakening in bankruptcy trends and declining loan balances resulted in higher charge-off rates compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. The company expects further increases in U.S. Card charge-off rate through
 
2009 as the economy continues to weaken. Credit trends in the international business reflect increasing economic deterioration in the UK and Canada. While the Canadian portfolio had been relatively stable for several quarters, the Canadian economy and credit trends began to show signs of weakness in the first quarter.
Auto Finance delinquencies and charge-off rates improved in the first quarter as a result of expected seasonality, improved used car prices and recovery values, and solid performance in recent originations.
While the company originated several billion dollars of new loans in the quarter and added $9.5 billion of Chevy Chase Bank loans, ending loan balances grew by only $3.4 billion.
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
 
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and in its Form 8-K dated April 21, 2009, including those regarding total managed charge-off dollars in 2009, the projected charge-off rate and revenue margin in the U.S. Card subsegment; and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: general economic conditions in the U.S., the UK, or the company's local markets, including conditions affecting consumer income, confidence, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs, deposit activity, and interest rates; changes in the labor and employment market; changes in the credit environment; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; competition from providers of products and services that compete with the company's businesses; increases or decreases in the company's aggregate accounts and balances, or the growth rate and/or composition thereof; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or the company with respect to practices, products or financial condition; financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including with respect to any litigation matter involving the company; and the success of the company's marketing efforts in attracting or retaining customers. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the company's reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries, which include Capital One, N.A. and Capital One Bank (USA), N. A., collectively had $121 billion in deposits and $150 billion in managed loans outstanding as of March 31, 2009. Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One offers a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Capital One, N.A. and Chevy Chase Bank, F.S.B. have approximately 1,000 branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
 
NOTE: First quarter 2009 financial results, SEC Filings, and earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a podcast and webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.
 



