FILE:COF/COF-8K-20090122171002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On January 22, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, Fourth Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended December 31, 2008.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on January 22, 2009, 5:00 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through March 31, 2009.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
For the Three Months Ended December 31, 2008
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(1)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(2)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 22, 2009
 
Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced a net loss for the full year 2008 of $46.0 million, or $.21 per common share (diluted), compared with earnings of $1.6 billion, or $3.97 per common share (diluted) in 2007. Net income from continuing operations, excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment, was $895.4 million, or $2.28 per common share (diluted) for 2008. For the fourth quarter of 2008, the company reported a net loss of $1.4 billion, or $3.74 per common share (diluted), compared with net income of $226.6 million, or $0.60 earnings per common share (diluted), in the fourth quarter of 2007, and compared to net income in the third quarter of 2008 of $374.1 million, or $1.00 per common share (diluted).
McLean, Va. (Jan 22, 2009) 
Net income from continuing operations excludes the loss from discontinued operations related to the shutdown of GreenPoint Mortgage in August 2007.
 
"The economic downturn was the key driver of our fourth quarter and full year results, and we expect that the recession will continue to impact our results throughout 2009," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our solid balance sheet positions us to continue navigating through these increasing cyclical headwinds and deliver value over the cycle."
Total Company Results
 
4.5 percent at the end of the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
"We have built our allowance in anticipation of further degradation in the economy, grown readily available liquidity to record levels, and are maintaining healthy capital ratios that are resilient to a range of economic outcomes," said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "These factors make our balance sheet the financial bedrock of our company and bolster our capacity to operate through this challenging economy."
 
Segment Results
Local Banking Segment highlights
Credit performance worsened in the quarter as the widening recession took hold in the company's local markets, impacting the New York metro region to a greater degree than Louisiana and Texas. Deposit growth accelerated in the fourth quarter as deposit strategies gained traction. Our deposit strategies focus on strong customer relationships, new products like our "rewards checking," and the company's well-known brand gained traction. The company will continue to focus on building and maintaining deposit-led relationships with its commercial, small business and consumer customers across its branch network. Local Banking managed loans grew by approximately $420.2 million in the fourth quarter, as the expected run off of residential mortgage loans was partially offset by growth in the middle market commercial franchise.
The expected addition of Chevy Chase Bank in the first quarter will expand the portfolio of attractive local banking franchises and further improve the company's core deposit funding base.
 
 
 
 
National Lending Segment highlights
The National Lending segment contains the results of the company's U.S. Card, Auto Finance and International Lending businesses. For details on each of these subsegments' results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
Economic deterioration intensified during the fourth quarter, driving increasing delinquency and charge-off rates across all of our lending businesses. The fourth quarter charge-off rate in the U.S. Card business was 7.08%, in line with the expectations conveyed last quarter. The company now
 
expects that the U.S. Card charge-off rate for the first quarter of 2009 will be around 8.1%, rather than the mid 7% range previously communicated. The change in outlook is primarily the result of declining balances and adverse credit performance of closed-end, unsecured loans that are included in the U.S. Card subsegment. Auto Finance delinquencies and charge-off rates increased in the quarter as a result of seasonality, economic worsening, declining loan balances, and the impact of sharply falling used car auction prices. Credit trends in the International business reflect increasing economic deterioration in the UK, and relative stability in the Canadian business.
National Lending managed loans did not grow in the fourth quarter, and declined modestly as compared to the prior year. Fourth quarter loan growth in the U.S. Card business was weaker than usual as a result of weak holiday spending. Managed loans in the International business declined by more than $1.5 billion, as a result of foreign exchange rate impacts, as well as lower originations in the UK as the economy there continues to weaken. Managed loans in the Auto Finance business declined by $824.5 million in the quarter as a result of the ongoing repositioning of the business.
The decisions made over the course of the last year to scale back origination volume in the Auto business have led to a reduced estimate of the fair value of the Auto business, and, in turn, recognition that the business can no longer support the full carrying value of goodwill. As a result, the business recorded a $810.9 million non-cash impairment to goodwill.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release, in the presentation slides available on the company's website and in its Form 8-K dated January 22, 2009 for estimated loss levels for the twelve months ending December 31, 2009 underlying the provision expense in the fourth quarter of 2008, the projected charge-off rate in the U.S. Card subsegment for the first quarter of 2009 and continued degradation in the economy, and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: general economic conditions in the U.S., the UK, or the company's local markets, including conditions affecting interest rates and consumer income and confidence, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity; changes in the labor and employment market; changes in the credit environment; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; competition from providers of products and services that compete with the company's businesses; increases or decreases in the company's aggregate accounts and balances, or the growth rate and/or composition thereof; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or the company with respect to practices, products or financial condition; financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including with respect to any litigation matter involving the company; and the success of the company's marketing efforts in attracting or retaining customers. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the company's reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008, and September 30, 2008.
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries collectively had $109 billion in deposits and $147 billion in managed loans outstanding as of December 31, 2008. Headquartered in McLean, VA, Capital One has 738 locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, and Louisiana. Its principal subsidiaries, Capital One, N.A. and Capital One Bank (USA), N. A., offer a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small
 
businesses and commercial clients. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
NOTE: Fourth quarter 2008 financial results, SEC Filings, and earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a podcast and webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.
 



