FILE:COF/COF-8K-20100422172937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On April 22, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.3 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, First Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on April 22, 2010, 5:00 PM Eastern Daylight time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through June 30, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC CALCULATIONS
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
(dollars in millions)(unaudited)
The table below presents a reconciliation of tangible common equity and tangible assets, which are the components used to calculate the reconciliation of the non-GAAP tangible common equity "TCE" ratio, to the comparable GAAP measures. The Company believes the non-GAAP TCE ratio is an important measure for investors to use in assessing the Company's capital strength. This measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
Capital One Financial Corporation
Impact of Adopting New Accounting Guidance
Consolidation of VIEs
 
Allocation of the Allowance by Segment
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates (1)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 22, 2010
 
Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced net income for the first quarter of 2010 of $636.3 million, or $1.40 per common share (diluted), versus fourth quarter 2009 net income of $375.6 million, or $0.83 per common share (diluted). This compares with a loss in the first quarter of 2009 of $(172.3) million, or $(0.44) per share (diluted).
McLean, Va. (April 22, 2010) 
Highlights compared to Fourth Quarter 2009
 
 
 
"We've demonstrated our resilience through the most challenging economic cycle we've seen in generations, and we believe that charge-offs in our consumer lending businesses likely peaked in the first quarter," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "While legislative and regulatory uncertainty remains, we believe that we are well-positioned to ramp up our businesses as we emerge from the recession, and to deliver strong and sustainable returns over the long term."
Capital One  First Quarter 2010 Results
Page 2
 
Total Company Managed Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One  First Quarter 2010 Results
Page 3
 
 
"Capital One posted strong bottom-line results in the quarter, as modestly improved pre-provision earnings were bolstered by lower provision expenses," said Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. "As we begin to emerge from the challenging economic environment, our strong and flexible balance sheet continues to position us well to take advantage of profitable growth opportunities."
Impacts from Consolidation on Reported Balance Sheet
Effective January 1, 2010, Capital One adopted two new accounting standards (FAS 166 and 167) that resulted in the consolidation of the company's credit card securitization trusts. The adoption of these new accounting standards resulted in the addition of approximately $41.9 billion of assets, consisting primarily of credit card loan receivables, and a reduction of $2.9 billion in stockholders' equity as of January 1, 2010.
The adoption of these new accounting standards does not have a significant impact on the ability to compare the company's results to prior periods on a "managed" basis; however, it does limit the comparability of the company's reported financial results subsequent to January 1, 2010 with its reported financial results prior to January 1, 2010. Because of the January 1, 2010, adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards, the company's reported results subsequent to January 1, 2010 will be comparable with its results on a "managed" basis.
Capital One  First Quarter 2010 Results
Page 4
 
Segment Results
The company reports the results of its business through three operating segments: Credit Card, Commercial Banking, and Consumer Banking. Please refer to the Financial Supplement for additional details.
Credit Card Highlights
For details on the sub-segments' results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Banking Highlights
For more lending information and statistics on the segment results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
The Commercial Banking segment consists of commercial and multi-family real-estate, middle market lending, and specialty lending, which are summarized under Commercial Lending, and small ticket commercial real estate.
 
Capital One  First Quarter 2010 Results
Page 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consumer Banking highlights
For more lending information and statistics on the segment's results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP figures are included in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and in its current report on Form 8-K filed April 22, 2010, which are available on Capital One's homepage, www.capitalone.com
Capital One  First Quarter 2010 Results
Page 6
 
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release dated April 22, 2010; and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: general economic conditions in the U.S., the UK, or the company's local markets, including conditions affecting consumer income, confidence, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs, deposit activity, and interest rates; changes in the labor and employment market; changes in the credit environment; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; competition from providers of products and services that compete with the company's businesses; increases or decreases in the company's aggregate accounts and balances, or the growth rate and/or composition thereof; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or the company with respect to practices, products or financial condition; financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including with respect to any litigation matter involving the company; and the success of the company's marketing efforts in attracting or retaining customers. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the company's report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries, which include Capital One, N.A. and Capital One Bank (USA), N. A., had $117.8 billion in deposits and $200.7 billion in total managed assets outstanding as of March 31, 2010. Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One offers a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Capital One, N.A. has approximately 1,000 branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
Capital One  First Quarter 2010 Results
Page 7
 
NOTE: First quarter 2010 financial results, SEC Filings, and earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a podcast and webcast of today's 5:00 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.


Exhibit 99.3
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" or GAAP financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet prior to January 1, 2010. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations were recognized as servicing and securitization income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made to eliminate the effect of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. Prior to January 1, 2010, the Company reclassified the servicing and securitizations income from our off-balance sheet securitizations and presented the results of the securitized loans in the same manner as our own loans. The Company believes our previous "managed" financial presentation and related metrics are useful to investors because it is consistent with how management views and manages the business. The Company believes the managed presentation is more reflective of the economics of our aggregate business, and it is useful to investors in understanding the credit risk and performance of both on and off-balance sheet loans. As a result of the consolidation occurring on January 1, 2010, "reported" or GAAP is equivalent to "managed". The following tables present the reconciliation of "reported" to "managed" prior to January 1, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC CALCULATIONS
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(1)
(dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 


