FILE:COF/COF-8K-20100121170516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On January 21, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the Company's press release is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.2 hereto, Fourth Quarter Earnings Presentation for the quarter ended December 31, 2009.
Information in Exhibit 99.2 furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
The attached press release and information provided pursuant to Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Webcast Information.
Capital One will hold an earnings conference call on January 21, 2010, 4:30 PM Eastern time. The conference call will be accessible through live webcast. Interested investors and other interested individuals can access the webcast via Capital One's home page (http://www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" to access the Investor Center and view and/or download the earnings press release, a reconciliation to GAAP financial measures and other relevant financial information. The replay of the webcast will be archived on Capital One's website through March 31, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATISTICS / METRIC DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
The Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are referred to as its "reported" financial statements. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualified as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company's "reported" balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the "reported" income statement.
The Company's "managed" consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its "managed" loan portfolio which includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company's "managed" income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which they originated. For this reason the Company believes the "managed" consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
 
The table below presents a reconciliation of tangible common equity and tangible assets, which are the components used to calculate the tangible common equity "TCE" ratio. The Company believes the TCE ratio is an important financial measure of capital strength to our investors and readers even though it is considered to be a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(1)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Statements of Average Balances, Income and Expense, Yields and Rates
(2)
(dollars in thousands)(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The segment reorganization includes the allocation of Chevy Chase Bank to the appropriate segments. Chevy Chase Bank's operations are included in the Commercial Banking and Consumer Banking segments beginning in the second quarter 2009. Chevy Chase Bank's operations for the first quarter of 2009 remain in the Other category. Chevy Chase Bank's operations are impacted by the Company's analysis of the fair values and purchase price allocation of Chevy Chase Bank's assets and liabilities which was finalized during the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 21, 2010
Highlights
 
 
 
 
Capital One Financial Corporation (NYSE: COF) today announced net income for the fourth quarter of 2009 of $375.6 million, or $0.83 per common share (diluted), versus third quarter 2009 net income of $393.5 million, or $0.88 per common share (diluted). For the full year of 2009, net income was $319.9 million, or $0.74 per share (diluted), including the ($563.9) million, or ($1.31) per share, impact to net income from the repayment of the government's TARP preferred share investment. This compares to a loss in 2008 of $78.7 million, or ($0.21) per share (diluted), which included a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge of $810.9 million in the automobile business.
McLean, Va. (January 21, 2010) 
"Capital One posted solid results as our domestic credit card and auto finance businesses delivered strong profits and resilience during the quarter despite challenging economic and credit headwinds," said Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Given our balance sheet strength and the stabilizing economy, we are well-positioned to take advantage of emerging opportunities to drive shareholder value in 2010."
Total Company Results
Capital One  Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2009 Results
Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One  Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2009 Results
Page 3
 
"We navigated a very challenging 2009, produced solid results and strengthened our position with additional capital and historically high allowance coverage ratios," said Gary Perlin. "The strength of our balance sheet will continue to enable us to make the investments necessary to generate profitable growth into the future."
Segment Results
The company reports the results of its business through three operating segments: Credit Card, Commercial Banking, and Consumer Banking. Please refer to the Financial Supplement for additional details.
Credit Card Highlights
For details on the sub-segments' results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
The Credit Card segment reported net income in the fourth quarter of $509.9 million, an increase of $218.2 million, or 74.8 percent, from the prior quarter's net income of $291.7 million. Lower provision expense in the quarter was the key driver of the improved profitability.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One  Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2009 Results
Page 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Banking Highlights
For more lending information and statistics on the segment results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
The Commercial Banking segment consists of commercial and multi-family real-estate, middle market lending, and specialty lending, which are summarized under Commercial Lending, and small ticket commercial real estate. The total segment reported a net loss of $136.0 million in the fourth quarter, relative to a net loss of $127.7 million in the prior quarter. Commercial Banking revenue increased $12.0 million, or 3.5 percent, to $356.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, while non-interest expense increased $31.3 million, or 18.9 percent, to $197.4 million. Increases in non-interest expense were driven by rising costs associated with managing loss mitigation and continuing infrastructure investments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One  Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2009 Results
Page 5
 
 
Consumer Banking highlights
For more lending information and statistics on the segment's results, please refer to the Financial Supplement.
Consumer Banking reported a net loss for the fourth quarter of $7.7 million compared to net income of $145.2 million in the third quarter. Revenue declined $73.9 million in the quarter. Provision expense increased $93.3 million, driven by seasonal increases in Auto Finance and continued deterioration in mortgage and home equity credit trends. Non-interest expense increased $68.1 million, or 10 percent relative to the prior quarter, as a result of several factors including planned expenses related to the integration of Chevy Chase Bank and investments to build a scalable banking infrastructure to ensure that the company is well positioned to take advantage of opportunities to grow our banking business.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital One  Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2009 Results
Page 6
 
 
The company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio, which includes both on-balance sheet loans and securitized (off-balance sheet) loans. For this reason, the company believes managed financial measures to be useful to stakeholders. In compliance with Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company is providing a numerical reconciliation of managed financial measures to comparable measures calculated on a reported basis using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Please see the schedule titled "Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures" attached to this release for more information.
Forward looking statements
The company cautions that its current expectations in this release dated January 21, 2010; and the company's plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions, are forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from current expectations due to a number of factors, including: general economic conditions in the U.S., the UK, or the company's local markets, including conditions affecting consumer income, confidence, spending, and savings which may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs, deposit activity, and interest rates; changes in the labor and employment market; changes in the credit environment; the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; competition from providers of products and services that compete with the company's businesses; increases or decreases in the company's aggregate accounts and balances, or the growth rate and/or composition thereof; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or the company with respect to practices, products or financial condition; financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including with respect to any litigation matter involving the company; and the success of the company's marketing efforts in attracting or retaining customers. A discussion of these and other factors can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the company's reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009, and September 30, 2009.
Capital One  Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2009 Results
Page 7
About Capital One
Capital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries, which include Capital One, N.A. and Capital One Bank (USA), N. A., had $115.8 billion in deposits and $212.0 billion in total managed assets outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One offers a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Capital One, N.A. has approximately 1,000 branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. A Fortune 500 company, Capital One trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COF" and is included in the S&P 100 index.
NOTE: Fourth quarter 2009 financial results, SEC Filings, and earnings conference call slides are accessible on Capital One's home page (www.capitalone.com). Choose "Investors" on the bottom of the home page to view and download the earnings press release, slides, and other financial information. Additionally, a podcast and webcast of today's 4:30 pm (ET) earnings conference call is accessible through the same link.



