FILE:COF/COF-8K-20100430123135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 27, 2010, Stanley Westreich delivered notice of his resignation, effective May 10, 2010, from the Board of Directors of Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Company"). Mr. Westreich has been a member of the Company's Board since 1994, prior to the Company's initial public offering. In 2009, the Board of Directors waived the Board's retirement age to enable Mr. Westreich to continue to serve as a director in light of the economic circumstances facing the financial services industry as a whole and the Company's recent acquisition of Chevy Chase Bank, F.S.B., and in recognition of Mr. Westreich's continuing value to the Company. Mr. Westreich believes that he has fulfilled the Board's expectations and now wishes to pursue other interests.
 
The Company's 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on April 29, 2010.
(a)
The following matters were voted upon at the meeting:
(b)
Mr. W. Ronald Dietz; Mr. Lewis Hay, III and Mr. Mayo Shattuck III were elected to the Board of Directors;
(1)
The selection of the firm Ernst & Young LLP to serve as the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company for 2010 was ratified;
(2)
The advisory vote on the Company's named executive officer compensation was approved;
(3)
The shareholder proposal regarding senior executive stock retention requirements was defeated; and
(4)
The shareholder proposal regarding board declassification was approved.
(5)
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


