FILE:COF/COF-8K-20110810152540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. This Amendment No. 1 is being filed in order to furnish a revised Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Company"), on August 10, 2011 (the "Original Form 8-K"). The investor deck filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Amendment No. 1 includes an updated Slide 8. All other information in the Original Form 8-K remains unchanged. This Amendment No. 1 continues to speak as of the date of the Original Form 8-K.
Explanatory Note
 
The Company hereby furnishes the information in Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Information in this report (including the exhibit) furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. Furthermore, the information provided in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Note:
 
 
 
Forward-looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act giving the Company's expectations or predictions of future financial or business performance or conditions. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the projected impact and benefits of the acquisition by the Company of the HSBC domestic credit card business, including future financial and operating results, the Company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company assumes no duty to update forward-looking statements.
In addition to factors previously disclosed in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and those identified elsewhere in this presentation, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: the possibility that regulatory and other approvals and conditions to the transaction are not received or satisfied on a timely basis or at all; the possibility that modifications to the terms of the transaction may be required in order to obtain or satisfy such approvals or conditions; the possibility that the Company will not receive third-party consents necessary to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction; the possibility that the Company may not fully realize the projected cost savings and other projected benefits of the acquisition of the HSBC domestic credit card businesses in the event that the Company's pending acquisition of the ING Direct business does not close timely or at all; changes in the anticipated timing for closing the transaction; difficulties and delays in integrating the HSBC domestic credit card businesses or fully realizing projected cost savings and other projected benefits of the transaction; business disruption during the pendency of or following the transaction; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; changes in interest rates and capital markets; diversion of management time on transaction-related issues; reputational risks and the reaction of customers and counterparties to the transaction; and changes in asset quality and credit risk as a result of the transaction.
Annualized, pro forma, projected and estimated numbers are used for illustrative purposes only, are not forecasts and may not reflect actual results.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 



