FILE:COF/COF-8K-20110128170705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On January 26, 2011, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) and the independent members of the Board of Directors (the Independent Directors) of Capital One Financial Corporation (the Company) approved compensation plans for Mr. Richard D. Fairbank, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and the Companys other named executive officers (the Named Executive Officers). Consistent with the Companys long-standing practice, the compensation plans take effect immediately and are designed to directly link Mr. Fairbanks and the Named Executive Officers compensation with the Companys performance over multiple time horizons and to align their interests with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
Chief Executive Officers Compensation Plan
Mr. Fairbanks compensation plan is substantially the same as his 2010 compensation plan, is equity-based, consists of several types of equity grants, and is completely at-risk based on the Companys and Mr. Fairbanks performance, with all payout opportunities deferred for three years. As in prior years, Mr. Fairbank will not receive any salary or bonus.
Under the plan, Mr. Fairbank was awarded an opportunity to receive from 0 to 200% of the target number of 82,851 shares of the Companys common stock based on the Companys performance over the three-year period beginning on January 1, 2011. The Companys performance will be assessed on the basis of both relative and absolute cash return on average tangible assets against a peer group consisting of companies in the KBW Bank Sector index, excluding custody banks. After the end of the three year performance period, the Committee will certify the Companys performance and issue the corresponding number of shares of the Companys common stock, if any.
Mr. Fairbank also received a grant of 608,366 nonstatutory stock options at an exercise price of $48.28 per share (which was the fair market value of the Companys common stock on the grant date). The options will become fully exercisable three years from the grant date and expire ten years from the grant date. Mr. Fairbank can only realize value from the stock options if and to the extent the Companys stock price increases after the grant date and the market value of the stock exceeds the exercise price at the time the options are exercised.
Mr. Fairbank also has an opportunity to be awarded restricted stock units in late 2011 or early 2012 based on actual performance in 2011. Any such award will vest in full in three years and settle in cash based on the Companys average stock price over the twenty trading days preceding the vesting date. The Independent Directors determination regarding whether to make this grant, as well as the value of the grant relative to the target amount of $4 million, will be based on a qualitative evaluation of multiple factors.
Other Named Executive Officers Compensation Plan
The 2011 compensation plan approved for the Named Executive Officers is substantially the same as the 2010 compensation plan. The Named Executive Officers total compensation is expected to be between $4.51 million and $6.68 million. Approximately 35% of each Named Executive Officers total compensation will be paid as base salary, with approximately 20% of such total compensation paid as regular cash salary throughout the performance year and 15% of such total compensation paid in the form of restricted stock units granted on January 26, 2011. The restricted stock units will vest on December 15, 2011, and settle in cash based on the Companys average stock price for the twenty trading days preceding the vesting date.
Approximately 15% of each Named Executive Officers total compensation is expected to be delivered in the form of restricted stock units that would vest over a period of three years and settle in cash based on the Companys stock price for the twenty trading days preceding the vesting date. The units, if any, would be awarded in late 2011 or early 2012 at the discretion of the Independent Directors based on a variety of company performance factors assessing the Companys actual performance in 2011.
The remaining 50% of the Named Executive Officers total compensation is expected to consist of long-term incentive awards that would be granted to the Named Executive Officers in late 2011 or early 2012 and would vest in full over the three years following the grant date. These equity awards, if any, will be granted to the Named Executive Officers solely in the discretion of the Independent Directors and will be completely at-risk based on the individual executives performance in 2011.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


